ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56845	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We move to the announced agenda point - Final proposal of the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 588. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings of the law, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and by representative Zlatko Koračević. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain? Yeah. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56846	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Let me greet you all together. And let me present in short lines the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development and let me say that this is one of the very important laws when I talk about the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, then it must be one of the most significant laws, but also, since... that this is one of the most important laws the government sent to the Croatian Parliament before the summer break. [[You don't understand.]] I will stress immediately that our intention is to gradually coordinate two still different systems of agricultural support for Croatian and European ones. There is also a regulation in the law package that harmonizes our legislation with European Union regulations, but the adoption of this law is also one of the measures in the economic recovery programme. We have recognised that the issue of reforming the incentive system is one of the key economic issues that we need to settle in order to ensure an even greater transparency and efficiency in spending on state budget funds that we know are not unlimited. In the context of Croatian negotiations with the European Union, it should be known that it is an informal criterion for ending negotiations in chapter 11 of agriculture and rural development. All this speaks clearly enough about the importance of passing this law as soon as possible. The common agricultural policy of the European Union implies a high degree of harmonisation between Member States in terms of how agricultural support is granted. As we know, there is not too much room for some national support policy in agriculture, but I would like to stress immediately that the objectives of this common agricultural policy of the European Union are the same as those of our Croatian agricultural policy. With the continued strengthening of competitiveness in agriculture, I am particularly emphasising two objectives here, an appropriate standard for the agricultural population and improving the quality of life in the rural area. However, they are also at the heart of Europe, as well as our policies and food security, sustainable resource management, and environmental concern. I am therefore convinced that in the gradual transition to the support policy that is being applied today in the European Union, Croatian agricultural producers can only profit. This is also confirmed by concrete examples of most farmers in the new Member States, whose membership in the European Union has brought an increase in total income. Equally, there are numerous other advantages that bring about the single European market. This law will set a basic framework for managing more than 90% of the funds available to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. This will specifically mean for the first two years of Croatian membership in the European Union in 2012 and 2013, an amount of approximately 10 billion kuna. These funds are significantly greater than those that we are able to single out today, but let us not take into account that what the Croatian Government and Croatian society today singles out for agriculture is far above all other new member states of the European Union. It should also be noted that the European Union rules on direct payments in agriculture have the highest financial weight compared to the common budget. No other regulation that we have adopted or need to take over so far relates to such a large amount, which is more than 40 billion euros from the common register or from a fund that is financed by direct payments. And what we all need to know is that this is why nowhere is such a detailed system of control of the spending of these large funds approved for agriculture and rural development in the European Union. Therefore, this law and we in Croatia are further discussing the importance of control and control of the spending of agricultural aid. Of course, it's the right producers, and by our judgment, the vast majority, will not be any problem, and that's what the producers themselves expect from us. What was the basis for this legislative proposal? It was a document adopted by the government in February of this year, which is actually a conceptual framework for our agricultural policy over the next few years. The document has also been positively assessed by the European Commission. Our European partners have estimated that the direction we are going is good and that we must not put ourselves in a position to change the system overnight, i.e. to delay some important decisions. We just don't have that extra time anymore. However, this legislative reform proposal is largely the result of long-term agreements with partner groups, ministries and government, not just negotiations and consultations that we had with European partners. Representatives of producer and professional associations, scientific and advisory institutions, chambers – from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Croatian Agricultural Chambers and other relevant groups – also participated. Many proposals have been accepted. Many things have been clarified during these consultations. However, it is clear that not all proposals could have been accepted because, as I said, common EU rules will apply to our country as well. And these rules are the best guarantee of long-term sustainability and the development of agriculture and rural space in our country. The law is structured in a way that the first part represents direct payments for 2011 in which the last time the national system of direct payments will be applied, which includes production-related payments other than basic payments per unit of area and production-related payments for the 8 most sensitive sectors – milk, suckler cows, dairy cows, sheep and goats, pigs, tov cattle, tobacco, sugar beet and olives. The second part refers to the application of the European regional model of single direct payments, so-called ‘regular’. The SPS regional model for which we have decided to apply and which will apply since 2012. These are payments which will not, to the greatest extent, be linked to production, but does not mean that the rules of good agricultural practice in production will not be respected. Respect for these rules is a condition for the right to this support at all. For several of the most sensitive sectors for which support from the EU budget cannot be obtained, funds will be provided during the 3-year transitional period, meaning from 2012 to 2014 in the state budget as existing State aid. The third part includes rural development policy, which today is represented by less than 20% of the total Croatian agricultural support, which should be significantly higher in the next 2 years. I would like to stress that exactly the rural development area is the key to a successful transition from the current model of support in agriculture to the future system. We are offered huge opportunities, not only financially in the field of diverse rural development measures, and Croatia simply needs to take advantage of this. Rural development policy is constantly gaining importance in the EU, and what is foreseen for the post-2013 period, i.e. in the new financial perspective from 2014 to 2020, it is heading towards a more balanced distribution of support between individual Member States, particularly old and new, and further reductions in the share of direct payments. All this goes in favour of this strategic choice of ours, although we will certainly not give up our right to direct payments, and what we have very clearly incorporated into the proposal for this law. It is our intention to discuss the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development in the Croatian Parliament and, of course, to bring it to the Croatian Parliament. In this way we want to clearly show at least 2 things. First, our willingness to conclude agricultural negotiations in the autumn of this year is a prerequisite for the completion of the overall negotiation process. Hopefully by the end of this year. However, it seems even more important to me that, in accordance with our economic recovery programme, we adopt a legal framework in good time that prepares our farmers for further reform of the system of agricultural support that has been coming since the beginning of 2011. And that means, timely disclosure and a transparent framework for all types of support that farmers will have at their disposal, but this, in particular, I stress in advance the known financial framework for which this support will be achieved. We want timely adoption of this law to have enough time during the second half of this year through our professional services, as well as other available channels of communication to reach information about this law and the opportunities it offers to farmers, right up to every agricultural economy. This will be our priority and permanent activity because we want this unique opportunity to be offered to us and that brings EU membership to agriculture and farmers as much as possible. On our side, we'll do everything we can to make it so. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am also prepared and in the course of the debate to answer your possible questions that will arise in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56847	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56848	Thank you, Mr. President, ministers, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. At its 35th session, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development discussed the proposal for a Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development as a home working body. The opening statement was tabled by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. The debate was attended by representatives of HGK, HOK, HPK, HUP, Croatian Peasants' Union, Croatian Association of Cooperatives, representatives of farmers' associations and agricultural producers. The debate noted that this law is an informal criterion for the agricultural chapter. The law is predetermined by the Reform of the Agricultural Support System in Croatia for the period 2010/2013. The concept framework for agricultural policy for the pre-accession period adopted in February 2010. The Law on State support for agriculture and rural development will determine the direction in Croatia not only in the pre-member period but also from the moment of membership in the European Union, or determine the future of Croatia's agriculture and its further development. It is estimated that this law is the most important in agriculture because it represents the distribution of money for agriculture from the state budget and from the European Union funds. The estimated full amount of the annual envelope, for direct payments of 373m euros and 352m euros for rural development. This is a good financial framework but it is important to determine the positions of individual sectors because this will affect the development of total agriculture. The opinion has been expressed that the savings related to the state budget should be in the function of developing and increasing production in agriculture and should not result in a reduction of competitiveness. It is alarming that certain sectors will remain completely like pig farming and beekeeping or, in part, without support. In 2009, the total support in livestock was around a billion and 300 million kuna and the 2011 plan was around 730 million kuna. In 2009, around 348 million were paid for milk and 145 million kuna are expected in 2011. In addition, these reductions have a view that 2011 is defined as a reference year, which will long-term support route, and on the basis of which payment rights are established in the future. The dairy sector is particularly sensitive, therefore a single-pound increase of milk is proposed from 0.50 to 0.55 kuna per kilogram. Therefore, due to changes in the milk market, extremely large investments by individual producers over the past period as well as credit debt, such a reduction in the production-related incentives in milk may lead to a large number of milk producers in an unfavourable financial situation. Furthermore, in the Republic of Croatia, 14% of the total milk production still does not meet the European conditions and the short-term suspension of aid could lead to a reduction in milk production which is still insufficient in Croatia. In this respect, it is proposed to retain support for milk that does not meet the European Quality Parameters until the entry into the European Union. The dissatisfaction with the current agricultural policy has been expressed, and especially since the Rural Development Strategy has not yet been adopted, and the main part of the future European policy in Croatia will be rural development policy. It is stated that in the European Union there are around 90 rural development measures, the time has been lost and our skills, preparedness depends on the possibility of using virtual money for us. Given the experience of the use of the SAPARD pre-accession fund, given the importance of absorption capacity, the possibility of making effective and appropriate use of the European Union's financial resources as part of the implementation of the IPA pre-accession fund is questionable. It is estimated that this law continues the bad policy, the aid that is the most unfair of all in the European Union, in which large producers have profited and the small have disappeared. The debate also praised the efforts and determination to end negotiations in a sensitive area of agriculture. The level of funding of our agriculture in three reference years, which was significantly above that of 12 new members of the European Union, has been expressed. The functional systems of IACS should enable the successful implementation of the programme for a number of users already since 2011, and are therefore within the 2011 programme framework of the measures set out in this Act, which will be financed exclusively by the national budget. It is therefore shown and concerned about what will happen if this system is not put in place so that it works effectively. It highlights the speed that the European Union is changing regulations, within the framework of the common policy and what is with our readiness to do so. Our problems stem from several arrangements, very expensive instructions and it is questionable how our agricultural producers will deal with more expertise in compliance and modulation, the mandatory status of the income taxpayer, as well as the conditions for the exercise of the right to direct payments. The question has been raised why special support for rescue and restructuring does not include other agricultural economies. In view of all the difficult circumstances, support for the organisation of agricultural producers in the cooperative system of cooperatives has been demonstrated. It is particularly important to provide budgetary resources for the financing of the implementation of this Act. After entering the European Union, Croatia will have almost 800m euros at its disposal for direct payments and rural development. It is crucial in 2011 to provide about 400m euros for direct payments due to the allocation of rights in 2012. Less than this will put Croatia's agriculture in an unfair position compared to other EU member states whose competition Croatia's agriculture is already facing on the domestic but also on the European market. So, I ask you, given that we wrote this report in haste, and for one correction, so after the debate was held, the Committee decided by majority of votes 8 for and 2 abstentions to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development with 8 amendments relating to Article 3, Article 11, Article 11, Article 22, 61 and 73, that would be largely all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56849	Thank you very much. We have an update on the alleged, distinguished colleague, Gyurjica Sumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56850	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Zgrebec, I just want to correct in that part the incorrect assumption that beekeeping is in an unspeakable position in this, I would just like to say that it is not because the Croatian beekeeper's alliance is already preparing for new these support, with the completion of the national strategy of Croatian beekeeping and 5.5 thousand registered beekeepers are familiar with this Strategy. And already in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture they will channel the funds to other programmes, meaning the protection of bee health, which is very important, the arrangement of the place... beekeepers, for information, organization, a series of other programmes. I'm saying this because I'm in constant contact with them, and they really are beekeepers who have prepared themselves for this, and they support it in a way and especially in rural development measures. Thank you very much. Nothing happened. I got the information today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56851	Thank you. The other committees, the rapporteurs, will they take the floor? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56852	Thank you, Vice President, I'd like to tell my colleague twilight, I've read the board's report on what people discussed, you can't fix what people said. Fellow Members and colleagues, the proposal is based on this Law, on the legislation of the European Union, or on a common agricultural policy, with certain derogations which may apply until the full membership of Croatia to the European Union. In other words, 211 represents important changes in Croatia's current agricultural support policy, which will have significant consequences for a large number of agricultural entities. Unfortunately, we have learned little from the experience of new members of the European Union who have not prepared well enough for agricultural negotiations, resulting in an unfavourable agricultural agreement for their farmers. The common agricultural policy of the European Union since 2005 means the transition from direct individual payments for warfare and livestock to single payments per holding if the conditions of environmental protection, plant and animal health, animal welfare and good agricultural practices are met. Member States are also left with the possibility that, with a single payment, they can use some production payments in different combinations. Special attention shall be paid to rural development, or to increasing resources, for programmes and projects for the development of rural areas used by all residents of these areas, not just farmers. Such a system requires effective administrative control of payments, and this is also of great importance. A new reform of the common agricultural policy is projected to take place after 2013. This means that we must urgently adopt the current rules in Croatia and prepare for new ones in the agriculture sector at the same time. During the past period, the emphasis has been on the administrative changes to be made so that European standards on plant and animal health, support and quality standards and rural development can be applied. In this context, an integrated administrative and control system should be built, established and put into operation of the Payment Agency, built a system of agricultural accounting data, administrative capacity for rural development and harmonised veterinary and fitness sanitary legislation. Furthermore, the Copenhagen criteria for competitiveness implies that farmers can cope with competition under free trade conditions, and the development of a rural economy can only be achieved with competitive agriculture. Therefore, rural development in Croatia must be part of the regional policy and development of the Republic of Croatia. As far as we have succeeded in this business, we do not really have enough knowledge in Parliament, so it would be good to have Parliament through a single report of information as we have done in this administrative sense. This short introduction just paints the problems that are yet to be expected. The current situation in agriculture in Croatia is not good. So far, the agricultural policy from land to production and market has not given the expected effects in terms of competitiveness, greater and more quality production, changes in structure, especially in warfare and import reduction. Often policy changes and stimulating that large systems that integrate processing and trade into their composition include and primary agricultural production sufficient for their processing capacity have left farmers in the deleted area. This is why the pressures on the country have also been frequented since it should participate in the formation of prices until the purchase of products because there are no effective ways to organise so-called products. small producers outside large production and commercial systems. The bill is based on a regional model of single direct payments, with the entire territory of Croatia being one region. In view of significant natural and climate differences, a number of other regions, e.g. to the karst and Adriatic areas. In addition, the different amounts of payments per hectare for meadows and pastures and other agricultural land, the eight types of production payments in plant and livestock production, the national reserve for sensitive sectors and the specific payment rights for farms without land in the dairy sector, beef, sheep and goats shall be applied. This last one, we believe, should lead a policy for such farms to receive a long-term lease of exactly state-owned agricultural land. In 2011, it shall be taken as a reference year on the basis of which payment entitlements are established in the future. The basis of the law is the Reform of Agricultural Support and Rural Development 2010-2013, which is in line with the European Commission, and thus the law is defined and it is difficult to make certain interventions in the text of the law itself. The new support system will suffer the most from livestock production because the biggest changes have been made. I'm just going to give you a few examples. Support from the title of the clowning premium in livestock is reduced, which now amounts to 500 kuna, although such a premium for the slaughter of adult bovine animals of 80 euros is foreseen in the European Union. The total amount of milk support is significantly reduced, and there are proposals for the introduction of a category of organic milk production on which we have good conditions in Croatia, but this law does not provide that. The biggest changes in pig farming are because the level of support is coming down from the current around 100 to only 30 million kuna, and in 2012, the support for the sows is being abolished. Comments relating to the livestock sector in which the national envelope will be reduced by around 45% from all economic associations brought together by producers in this sector, and the proposals suggest that a gradual reduction of production support in livestock industry over a period of 3 to 5 years should be carried out. A particular problem is the competitiveness of our agricultural production, which we are actually doing little about. Uncompetitiveness stems from many factors such as petty property, unregulated land, low technological and educational levels of a large number of peasant economies, but also from high prices of input from energy to reproductive material and public giving. The conditions for the achievement of aid relating to multiple compliance, modulation, and in particular the condition that the beneficiaries of the support must be in the profit tax system, in other words to run business books, to pay taxes and contributions, will further make it difficult for a large number of current users to retain this status. The law adopts significant newspapers in the rural development segment, i.e. redistribution of support in favour of rural development support. However, we have done little in this segment because it is not until 2011 that the strategy, plan and programme of rural development measures are being adopted. It should be recalled that, after the adoption and ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we already launched legislative reform in the agriculture sector in 2002. The Agricultural Act and the Aid Act have also been adopted, which introduced new categories of support from income support to support rural development. But until today, we've had a lot of empty walks and lost time, so now in just a few months we have to do some agricultural segments of drastic cuts. And in the end, we have one question. Since the law lays down a national envelope for 2011 for direct and arbitrary payments, we should therefore get an answer from which 205 million kunas agreed to be paid to farmers through business banks are due in 30.6.2011. Whether it will be additional funds in the agricultural budget. Given that we need to complete negotiations with the European Union as soon as possible, that we have reformed support and agreed on the SDP club will vote for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56853	Thank you very much to my colleague Zgrebec. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56854	Thank you very much. First of all, I would say on support that the SDP club will vote to pass this law. But here's also allow me to present these few concerns which Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec's esteemed representative on behalf of the SDP club, so let me try to explain. I'll start with this last part of your inquiry. In accordance with the law and the way in which the financial support is paid in the European Union, support shall be paid retroactively. So one year's support is paid in the following year. This means that these support for which this law applies in 2011 will practically be paid, to the greatest extent it will be paid in 2012. You know? As far as the 205 million are concerned, it is somewhat less likely that they will be paid and will be in the 2011 budget and those who pay for the gross support from 2010. Now allow me, I don't think perhaps in the very explanation I was so precise because I expected that perhaps through this part of the conditional answer I would be able to say some things more directly and more specifically. So first of all, let me say that Croatia has defined itself as so-called. The SPS regional model. That's what I said. Of the 12 new Member States of the European Union, only the Republic of Slovenia has defined this model while the other 11 countries have been identified as so-called so-called. The SAPS model, which means that the basis for paying units of surface area is to be practically or as simply as I say that the financial envelope is divided by the number of hectares and on the basis of hectares, direct payments are paid which become payments by the economy. In practice, I'd say it didn't turn out so well. Examples of our first Hungarian neighbours show us that it has practically come from entering to this day to a significant reduction in exactly livestock production, and that the plant production honestly has risen and increased its competitiveness significantly, but unfortunately there has been a decrease in livestock production, so I would say in those basic indicators in the production of milk, in this heroine and pig husbandry, it has almost tripled from before the entry to the day. For these reasons, but also knowing the diversity of Croatian agriculture which is practically diverse as diverse and Croatian areas and Croatia regardless of what a relatively small country has and I think that Croatian wealth has a great variety. We also have great diversity in agriculture. One is agriculture in Slavonia or should I say in the eastern part of our country where there is practically a gro of orange surfaces, where there is a great representation of agricultural areas. Then in northwestern Croatia, where we have the most developed livestock production from dairy beef to tow heroin and tow pigs, and relatively less orange surfaces or to say significantly less orange surfaces when we compete with the number of throats compared to Slavonia and to that part, I would say Mediterranean agriculture that we have in the coast, islands and in this I would say southern parts. For these reasons, Croatia has defined for this so-called The SPS model that allows us to save unrelated payments per unit of surface, means we also have the possibility of tied payments for the suckler cow, sheep and goats. But also, we are through a conceptual framework and in design when we were working on a conceptual framework we have carried out an analysis of our sensitive and important sectors and then we have practically defined these 8 sensitive sectors. This is also the issue of debate and with partner groups, with chambers, with associations and the like, and on this basis we have defined these 8 sensitive sectors that I have listed not to be listed further on condition. Likewise, when adopting a conceptual framework, we also had to take care of compliance with the common agricultural policy and we know, but we also know our agricultural producers and they long ago knew that such conditions as we have in part of livestock mainly in the production of milk that, unfortunately, they will not be able to achieve such conditions by entering the European Union because there is no such thing in the European Union. But we are aware, one of our goals was to increase livestock production with a particular emphasis on milk production and I can say that we have largely succeeded. Mrs Zgrebec also noted that from 2003 to 2009, we increased milk production by 30%, that we were the quality of milk from about 22% in 2003 of milk that met EU criteria. But I'm not saying this, I don't want anyone to understand this in some negative context that I'm saying. That was the situation. We need to know that only in 2002 a control laboratory for milk control was established in Croatia, and that created a presumption, and then, through the reform of agriculture, practically defined and the price of quality-based milk and thus stimulated agricultural producers, milk producers to give special effort to increase the quality of their milk because it is reflected at the price. And we are here now, last year we ended up with some 84% of the milk that meets EU standards. It is a huge step, and when we present both to the European Commission or when we present to our colleagues at the bilateral meetings that we have, I must say that we receive significant commendations. And here in that segment we went consciously and with the level of support and consciously we go from last year to the 6th month with the protection of the price of milk. Why? This is the sector that may have had the greatest propulsibility, the biggest investment, the most done in the construction of new farms, the most invested in the purchase of quality cattle and we here, our production results are extremely good. But this burden that our farmer has in a relatively short period of time has, a great debt, great credit anuities, extremely burdens production because it is not the same, and competed with someone who did not, or did not have to in such a short period of time, have so much investment and so much load per liter of milk, for these reasons we consciously went to consolidate this sector. And I can also responsibly say as minister that, to the greatest extent, the milk sector will be consolidated by the end of this year, that it will practically consolidate itself and thus welcome it ready to enter a new phase from 2011 and that this is the maximum that we could achieve these 7 eurocents. And we expect that these 7 Eurocents through the national reserve will become part of a permanent right, although it is known that maximum support in the European Union is for milk per litre, or a kilogram of milk of 3.14 eurocents, and we are going at 7, because we have estimated that this is a threshold. We are, of course, justifying it, because dairy is also the biggest loser when we look at national support and what will be in the European Union, and we consider it realistic that we can defend it and that it can become their permanent right. Anything above that would be irresponsible and unserious. On the other hand, here's my flashlight, so let me just say, unfortunately, the pork sector. There is no theoretical chance and there is no negotiator or anyone who can ensure that in this I would say the last pre-accession period, as well as in the accession period that the pig farming sector can achieve incentives. It is, it is not in line with the common agricultural policy. In the hero sector, I think we have received a satisfactory level of support, with which our producers or heroes will not be uncompetitive on the European market. Here's what I'd say, some reasons why we didn't have much space. On the other hand. Let me just say a few sentences about our administrative compliance. Well, the best indicator of our administrative compliance is that at the beginning of the 6th month we had auditors related to the paying agency, which is the criterion for closing Chapter 11, which recorded significant and significant progress, which means that practically Croatia and the Agriculture Agency will do the necessary part, from the ark and everything else, because this has been shown both by the audit and the auditors of the European Commission, and can practically say that we have removed this criterion. I have meetings with my associates in the European Commission on Friday with 3... , with agriculture, with food safety and fishing. [[You don't understand.]] All three chapters of which food safety, for example. One of the most difficult chapters is practically over. That's before closing. With this law and the revision of the paying agency we are largely, we are creating an assumption that somewhere in the 9th, 10th month we can close this extremely difficult and demanding chapter of the 11th agriculture. This proves that we are practically that administrative and harmonized part practically, it is the best indicator, I do not have to say anything further if satisfied by the auditors of the European Commission means that we have done the job. Thank you very much. There'll probably be more opportunities, so maybe I'll give you some more clarifications.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56855	Thank you very much, Minister. Next, we're going to discuss clubs. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, dear colleague Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56856	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development is before us, we also have a new model of incentives, meaning for 2011, when it counts with possible European resources, if we enter the European Union in 1.1.2012. But are we ready and how much to fight for each euro from the common register with 27 countries, especially with the old members of the European Union, France, Britain, Germany, which would prefer to keep the old subsidisation models and really not have to share it with anyone. Croatia will make less than 1% of the population and far less than 1% of the European Union's economy, which is at the border of statistical error, so we must not leave it to Croatian agriculture, because it is not important for them, only to subs and support the European Union, but we must train it, technologically gear it, because it is certain that the EU will dictate what it will and how it will produce, but we must still have our own agricultural policy, process as many countries with desirable cultures as possible, have as much quality equipment as possible not only about agrotechnics, to prepare well, agriculture education in the agricultural profession itself, but also about how European funds work, and to know how to use funds. And most importantly, they must understand the legality of the market economy. One of the main advantages of the European Union is the common budget and funds, from which projects are financed essential for the development of each member. The only flaw that these funds are hard to come by, and the real art is to get out of the common funds more than it has been paid. In view of the importance of agriculture for all European countries, agricultural allocations are the second largest item of the European budget, they account for almost 40% and everything is dictated by the common agricultural policy. Normally, investments in research, innovation, employment and regional development are first in recent times, for which the European budget stands out 40% of its budget. The growing demand for food products due to strong demand growth in the rapidly growing economies of China, India, a sharp rise in prices in 2008 of all agricultural products has led to a change in the common agricultural policy, i.e. the common agricultural policy is still trying to change in terms. The obligation to place 10% of the land without crops, i.e. known incineration, is abolished and quotas from 2015 are fully sought to separate the amount of subsidies from the quantity of production with the desire to encourage farmers to follow the market and enter those productions that will benefit them, and in translation, this would mean that the agricultural culture that cannot be found by the buyer cannot be sold or should not be sold to the State by blocking the roads. The funds collected by modulation want to focus on rural development. The incentives for agriculture in Croatia are higher than in many EU countries, and yet we have dissatisfied peasants. The price of wheat and the cost of waving them, they calculated agricultural colleges, but we forget that the price is not only dictated by the cost but also by the contribution and that our contribution is only 2 tonnes higher, that is, instead of 4,6 tonnes, such as in Hungary and our price would certainly be within the limits of 80,90 June etc. On the day of entry into the EU, Croatia must use such a system of support for sure as it is in the Union. Some support will have to be lifted, some new introductions. Support for direct payments is reduced with increased support for rural development. However, it is good that we will continue to have self-supply economies that generate the main income either outside agriculture or, above all, it is an ageing economy that will continue to enjoy income support. However, the target group remains a market-oriented agricultural holding. By 2008, we had all the direct payments connected. However, no significant results have been achieved in increasing all production, nor has Croatia achieved self-sufficiency in any agricultural product other than those mentioned earlier in wheat, corn, wine, eggs, or poultry meat. I think we can talk positively about milk, said colleague Zgrebec, said the minister, and that's really the area where we made a big step. However, when it comes to the production of pork and beef, but also the question of vegetables, the fruit for which we have certainly enough potential and the production is still slightly stronger, and at the level of the 1990s. I have to say that we have even less meat to talk about, and the other day we had a chance to track the data that raw materials are used by five processing industries where it's said that practically 90% of their needs are imported. Looking at the other day and the composition of Podravka Vegeta there is almost no Croatian component. From the Czech trout, the Polish carrots, the Algerian port to the imported salt, and we're talking about our export brand. Therefore, we would have to imagine what is wrong with our vegetables, our drought, etc. In fact, I am now attaching this to the further resources provided in the national budget, which form the national envelope for 2011 and which is divided as the minister said on direct payments, means payments on the agricultural surface. We are now going to have a category of meadows and pastures which are the borders of a maximum of 700 kuna or 702 kuna so far and we will have all the other war cultures that will be under one sentence of payment in 2000-55 kuna. It's a good thing we have production-related payments, and here it's emphasized that it's going to be olive oil, sugar tail, tobacco. But that's why I deliberately said why those cultures were the only ones. What about fruit, vegetables? Why have we not yet used some additional incentives to achieve more production in that particular area? We've done a lot of saying in dairy, but we've really worked with x measures, x interventions. Shouldn't we be in this segment, I repeat, where we have enough potential to do something? Cattle and dairy cows are said to be separated, although I don't see the difference. I see a difference in name, I see a difference in content, but I asked the cattlemen what the difference was and they laughed at me a little bit. I say, I see an explanation in the law by which they are so separated, but it was necessary to define the dairy cow category that is used in one way, or dairy cows in another way, rather than having suckler cows and musar cows, which is a little undefined. It is good that in the livestock segment cattle are especially encouraged, to encourage especially fertilising sows. But I don't see why we haven't been able to fight to have a special position and a load of pigs. Because I must say that it is clear that the EU has a surplus of that meat, but Croatia does not have enough meat, Croatia has a lot of problems and perhaps we should have fought for a special status when we have already singled out fertilized sows here. And the production of detachments that we are still importing today certainly deserve this specially-separated place, but I think we should have upgraded exactly and then the production of pig meat. I say, I know how Europe cuts, but maybe our negotiators could have done something here. In 2012, a single payment programme will already be implemented in line with the EU common agricultural policy and regional monitoring will normally be maintained on the surface that I have mentioned in advance. The second segment is a national reserve as a means of additional payment rights to sensitive sectors according to objectively defined criteria and normally the third are productively linked payments as premium rights. Furthermore, payment rights and particularly productive support, as well as rural development, which includes all previous support for income, capital investments, organic production, insurance against possible damages. This year, the land particles identification system is being arranged... Something later. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope he's really going to be taken care of this year. The question is, at what stage is the integrated system for the administration of direct payments? It's clearly the paying agency. But we know that it should pay not only for the existing Archod system but for recording all payment rights, the animal identification and registration system, the identification of agricultural holdings, there is a large amount of work ahead of them. I ask if the personnel are equipped, financially equipped. Because so far, our farmer very often did not know what he had received the funds for, often for any year that caused confusion and dissatisfaction, therefore, I hope that the European Union, at least in terms of information, will force us to give clearer answers. Stronger since it is stronger controls, especially in the field of sanctioning deviations by reducing payments until the total payment is excluded, which require clear instructions and regulations that the minister will have to prescribe. I know that the financial package for Croatia is already known if we really enter the European Union on 1 January 2012. The data differ with regard to rural development and market measures, but depending on what it collects, but it is important that the legislator states that direct payments next to them are the highest part of the support and an important component of the first pillar to constitute market and instrumental measures, which we have already legalised before the Law on the Organisation of the Markets of Agricultural Products. Where we have also defined measures to regulate the market for certain sectors of agricultural products, the conditions for the activation of certain market regulation measures and the roles of certain bodies in their implementation, while normally in this segment remains to define the second pillar that constitutes rural development. It is very debateable that the entire territory implies as one region and is being monitored as a single and regional payment, although the minister here stressed that Croatia still has the enormousness to say such diversity, starting from Slavonia, ending somewhere down on Peljesac. However, rural development measures to be financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the improvement of the competitive agricultural forestry sector, the improvement of the environment and landscapes and the quality of life in rural areas, including diversification of economic activities, are de facto the measures we had in part. It will now be important to meet agricultural economies, farmers with all measures, out of the possibility of vocational training, early retirement of farmers, modernisation of agricultural economies, development of new products, process of technology in the processing industry, restructuring of smaller economies of pay for difficult management conditions, but all of this will be restored to the beginning. If we are to know how to take advantage of all the opportunities we are given, will we really know how to choose for each euro that we can take, and that depends primarily on what kind of education farmers we will do, or those who can use all of this on the basis of the aforementioned laws? We will support the Law in the hope that, with the existing laws that regulate the problem of agriculture, it will contribute and address the problems of the present but above all put agriculture in place so that it can be better integrated into the common agricultural policy of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56857	Thank you very much. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, and on behalf of the Club will speak the distinguished colleague Kreso Filipovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Representatives Club holds that this debate on this proposal, the proposal for a law on state support for agriculture and rural development, is one of the most important topics this year. Since it is one of the reform laws that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has certainly included in its economic recovery programme and which we should in any case pass before the summer break. Because that's how we ended up committed. Indeed, there are many reasons why they can back up a previously stated assessment of the importance and importance of the proposed Law and the necessity of its timely adoption. The Proposer of the Law stressed that it was one of the criteria for ending the negotiations in Chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development which clearly speaks about the determination of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all of us to end these sensitive negotiations during this year. However, we from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community want to stress that it is much more important that the final result of meeting these criteria is favourable to the Republic of Croatia and therefore also to our farmers. But we also express our belief that this is exactly what's going to happen. We fully share the view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the recent membership of our country in the European Union offers a great opportunity for Croatian farmers, an opportunity that represents a market of about 500 million inhabitants, and about 10 billion total agricultural support only in the first two years of membership, so during 2012 and 2013. A quality preparation is necessary to welcome the opportunity mentioned. In the context of the overall reforms of Croatia's agricultural policy, this last and most sensitive step means ending the reform of the national system of support for agriculture and rural development, thus making it compatible and acceptable to that in the European Union countries. It is clear that membership in the European Union requires every candidate country to adapt and change national policies in a timely manner. In order to respond quality to the demanding and single European market. Of course, it also presents specific challenges that we need to face in a timely manner, and it does not allow us to leave making difficult decisions alone at times. This approach is particularly important and important for the agriculture sector. For this very reason, I would say that this is the right time to try to answer a number of questions and questions that are being asked before us and Croatian agriculture in the context of accession and future full membership of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which, in my humble opinion, can be reduced to four basics. First, where are we currently compared to the European Union? Secondly, what is it necessary to do until full membership? Third, what exactly does the European Union bring to Croatia? And fourthly, how to achieve this goal with as little stress and earthquakes as possible, thus ensuring the long-term sustainability of Croatia's agriculture. Since it is the place and role of our country on the European map, it is not necessary to publicly hesitate to say that it is modest, and it is most likely to testify that Croatia's agriculture accounts for an average of 0.6% of the total newly created value of European agriculture, and that we have only a few productions of which is more than 1%. Finally, we need to be aware of how appropriate this share is the size of our country and the area of agricultural land, an appropriate number of the population, both in total and in agricultural areas. However, there are a number of reasons such as favourable natural and environmental conditions, rich and long traditions, variety of offers, plenty of indigenous products of top quality and generally very high level of food safety in Croatia, which is why we must be proud and therefore best testify to our own and I believe many foreign guests this year. Given the mentioned advantages and agricultural potentials that we have at our disposal, which we still do not use to a sufficient extent or effectively enough, although there is some evidence that things are changing better with full law than all of us, and in particular our farmers expect these changes to be even faster in order for the contribution of agriculture to be in line with our objective options. This is why the Croatian Democratic Community's Club holds that further reform of the existing system of agricultural support is necessary, not only for the reason of our soon entry and full membership in the European Union but primarily for building solid foundations for the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture in the future, which will also guarantee an appropriate level of employment and income in this, for the Republic of Croatia of extremely significant economic activity. The reform proposed by the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development can simply be said to be high-quality, timely and politically extremely responsible. Its key characteristics are, as the first clear vision and direction of the national agricultural policy towards truly important and sensitive sectors during the transitional period, the long-term direction of the agricultural support policy and the third, the retention of the elements of the adaptability of the most sensitive area or the area of direct payments. Before looking at some concrete solutions to the change of the direct payment system, it is necessary to stress that direct payments are important, but only one part of the overall agricultural support policy. The other two key places concern market regulation measures and rural development policy, which is more important in the long term to the Republic of Croatia than direct payments in the European Union. It is therefore very important, first and foremost, that our farmers, and then the general public, understand in a proper and well-intentioned way the basic direction of change that awaits us and that, since a strong increase in the share of rural development in total support, they welcome it ready and make maximum use of it. According to the preliminary financial envelopes for these purposes, around 459m euros are expected in the future, of course including the national component, and for direct payments of around 373m. It should therefore be pointed out that exactly the rural development area is the key to a successful transition from the current agricultural support model to the future system, and when we talk about any change that awaits us in the area of direct payments, we should always bear in mind the many opportunities that a rural development policy brings, which can be complemented by direct payments, and thus also by the growth factor of income. In the case of direct payments, it is necessary to first of all to know that, in accordance with the definition of the law, payments are made on agricultural holdings to carry out agricultural activities and to support their income. It is also further determined what is considered to be agricultural activity, noting that currently the biggest difference between Croatia and the European Direct Payment System is primarily in the definition of agricultural activity, and only then in the basic conditions that farmers need to fulfil in order to exercise the right to direct payments. So, according to the European definition that we, too, are taking over by this bill, agricultural activity involves farming crops, keeping and breeding cattle, producing agricultural products or maintaining land in a state suitable for agricultural production and preserving the environment. It can be clearly concluded from the previous definition that production as such is not a necessary prerequisite for the exercise of the right to direct payments and that, in fact, it is a key condition for the exercise of the right to respect multiple compliance, i.e. respect for conditions relating to the protection of the environment, human, animal and plant health, animal welfare and conditions related to good agricultural and environmental practice. In other words, for the European direct payment policy, it is not important at all what, how much and whether it is produced at all. To them, respect for the conditions of multiple compliance is essential. This fact is indeed a huge difference compared to our current incentive system, however, it is not necessary to ignore the fact that by adopting a valid law in July last year, we have made a huge step towards adapting the national direct payments system to European ones, since we have already introduced payments per area that do not relate to any specific production and thus reduced 200-ths of the items of production-related wages to only 37. It should also be said that there is a provision in the current law on the need for production which is not conditional on a particular culture, but that it will remain only for 2011 in accordance with the draft law. The proposal also provides for a further increase in the share of production-free payments, i.e. a reduction in the share of production-related payments, which is all a part of the gradual full freedom of farmers when it comes to their decision on what and how much to produce, thus the element of their full market orientation. Given the fact that the European Union rules on direct payments in agriculture have the highest financial weight compared to the common budget, the minister said in more detail that no common agricultural policy requires such a detailed system of control and spending, this bill further stresses the importance of control and control of the spending of agricultural support funds and the application of financial discipline instruments. This approach certainly contributes to the maximum transparency of budget spending, and defining national and sectoral envelopes facilitates budget management on the one hand, but also facilitates planning at the level of business decisions on the other. I will say just a few more sentences on the key parts of the bill which distinguish direct payments and rural development measures until the time of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and those measures that will apply after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. For the period until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, or more precisely for 2011, a financial framework of EUR 335 million has been established, i.e. € 2.4 billion for direct payments, which, in accordance with the law, cover basic payments per agricultural area and production-related payments. Therefore, in 2011, the number of production-related payments will continue to be reduced, but it will, in part, remain by only a few of the most sensitive sectors in both plant production and livestock production. Application of the European regional model of single direct payments The SPS model is expecting us in 2012, so from the year of the expected entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. In accordance with this model, future payments will not, to the greatest extent, be related to production, except for two sectors for which the European Union also retains related payments since 2012, which are suckler cows and sheep and goats. For several particularly sensitive sectors for which no support is provided for by the European Union rules during the three-year transitional period, hence State aid to be financed from national funds is provided for from 2012 to 2014. This assistance should contribute to the mitigation of the negative effects of the transition to a new support system. Similarly to direct payments, the bill lays down rural development measures that will apply until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, but also a complete package of measures that will be available to us after the entry for which I have already pointed out that they are very generous and therefore represents an opportunity for our agriculture and our farmers. I would just say that we really need to be happy all together that this bill reform proposal is largely a result, as the minister has also cited long-term agreements with partner groups of the ministry and government, which means that representatives of producer and professional associations, scientific and advisory institutions, chambers of producers and all other relevant groups were involved, which is certainly for every praise. Finally, respecting everything previously said, but also the fact that Croatian farmers will continue to be allowed a relatively high level of funding, although it is not very popular to talk about which they are guaranteed, therefore retaining a better position in this regard in relation to farmers of all new and most old members, members of the European Union, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support and vote for the adoption of a new Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56859	Thank you very much. It is up to the club of IDS MPs and distinguished colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56860	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, So out of a total of 7 and a half billion kuna worth of agricultural production, nearly half of Croatia's 700 agricultural companies are producing, while the other half belongs to farmers' farms. Although these large companies process only about 20% of the working surfaces clearly have far better efficiency, better yields, more rational business, but only a few hundred possibly thousands of strong farmers with large surfaces can stand next to them and these are clearly relatively few in Croatia. The data from the agriculture ministry indicate that out of 180,000 registered farmers, as many as 120230 handle them below three hectares. Nowhere in the world but Croatia of 3 hectares can live. Nowhere in the world does anyone with three acres expect to survive except clearly in Croatia. In regulated countries, this category of family economies should not even be covered by the Minister of Agriculture but should belong to the Ministry of Regional and Rural Development and should be helped by the state in different ways, not through the current form of incentives. Since the introduction of the country's support system is in agriculture, I dare say, like a drunken billionaire, it has beaten more than 25 billion kuna. With a water contribution, it is 40 billion kuna, and in the agrarian we see, and these days it has never cooked again, nor are peasants satisfied with the amount of incentives paid, nor are they satisfied with the market model of buying the production that the notes were looking for. And once the state has denied them part of the promised cake, then it's clear that tractors are coming out of the street, and that's more so when this law comes into force, because it's going to be harder than they are today. Clearly, it should also be mentioned that shipbuilding from the state budget in the past 20 years has also withdrawn at least 40 billion kuna. We certainly don't know the exact data, we need to calculate, look at all the budgets of the 1990s on here for various types of subsidies about paid off a hundred million kunas. In 2009 alone, we singled out or secured in the budget 6 billion 960 million kuna. In 2010 because of economic and other moments minus 25 million kunas, so they are planned for size if something does not happen this year for 5 billion 935 million kunas. You multiply that times I don't know for ten years, so you'll get the data from about 60 billion. Well, a little less than fifty billion, so if we add that from the 1990s to the ninety-nineth or the year 2000, at least 30 billion more in less than 15 months. Therefore, all customs barriers with the European Union are lifted, so that from next year it will be important to simplify the system of direct payments. And that's what this law is talking about. In 2008, as many as 218 different support was provided, last year 37 in order to reduce production payments to 8 of the most sensitive milk, suckler cows, tow cattle, tobacco, sugar beet, sheep, goats, etc. etc. What is also interesting is that, as the minister mentioned, like Slovenia, we choose a regional model of support, which means that the total state space from 2011 will have the treatment of a region in which specificity in agricultural production will prevail through the national support reserve. However, Croatia is regionally set up in a way and I advocate at least two of these types of regions. It's up Slavonic and clear because of the specifics of the Adriatic. Introduces so-called. The payment model with a unique amount of support per hectare worth 295 euros regardless of what is grown in the fields, and for the maintenance of meadows and pastures it will be 95 euros. Last year, agricultural support amounted to 3.6 billion kuna. All the incentives, mentioned by the minister somewhere at the beginning of the year. So the villagers in 2010 should be about 40% less. Only milk support continues to be paid at 100%. The fact is, however, that the budget for promoting competitiveness in agriculture means that it plans 2 billion and 190 million kuna for this year, or as defined by budgets. So in 2008, the execution of 2 billion 520. In 2009, the plan was 2 billion 570 and so much. The 2009 draft budget mentions 2 billion 191 million kuna. Projections for 2011 billion 939 million kuna, 200 million kuna less. In 2012, there will be another 20 million kuna. So much for this budget. So what I'm also saying is that the ransom price of milk has been maintained without the reduction of the 40 percent mentioned. But the next day, if God does not give up the mountainous and mountainous area, let the milkers in that area from Buzet continue to keep the Gorski kotar from this year as well as elsewhere in the Republic of Croatia, not to be reduced and let the ministers also allow the peasant for his needs to slaughter the calf at home. It is clear that what is being asked as a question constantly is which of these measures will profit. Whether to profit large, whether to profit small. I categorically claim to profit a great one. Why? Because it is the same in the European Union, and God knows it is in Croatia today and in the Republic of Croatia, because at first I said that 700 large de facto buys more than 50% if I am not wrong with these support. In Europe, clear agriculture is one of the main policies of the European Union. Until recently, most of the Union's budget was intended for agriculture, this year's agricultural budget meant for 43.8 billion euros and 31% of the total budget. The only major item is cohesion policy, i.e. funds to help underdeveloped European regions, which receives slightly more than 35% of the funding. Most of this cake gets France 20%, followed by Spain, Germany and Italy between 10 and 15, but if the population is taken into account, the biggest winners are Greece and Ireland, which is quite surprising, however, that only 0.9% of gross social product is waste in agriculture in Ireland. Most of the funds are received by large agro businesses, large owners, so 74% of the funds end up in the hands of only 20% of agricultural entities, while 70% of the entities receiving the lowest incentives receive only 8% of the total funding in the European Union. I suppose that's how it's going to be in Croatia, because it's about today, so it's over 100 million kuna for Pic, Belje, Vrbovac, Vinkovce, etc. received only one Croatian company. Why? How? About that second time. What should surely be welcomed here is some of the measures being introduced for the first time. For example. on page 36, this is the early retirement of farmers, but here some figures are listed which sound almost unattainable to me, amazing, so says the early retirement of farmers up to 18 thousand euros per pensioner per year, up to 180 thousand euros per pensioner, up to 4 thousand euros per worker per year, up to 40,000 euros per worker per year. If that's how it is, let's all retire, but clearly logic is different, people need to be stimulated to work, to have, not to retire. And as for some money from the European Union, in the first years, I am a skeptic, but let's say that this will happen, although I would not put my hand in the fire for such a thesis, regardless of what is said here on page 4 of this report that Croatia expects around 483m euros for rural development measures for 2012 to 2013, and 144m euros for the market of measures and direct payments in agriculture, and then for some direct payments another 373m euros, but I will believe that only when that money arrives in Croatia. When it comes to this law, I would like to say once again that this law should be translated into language, that first any representative can understand it, but to God we and every farmer, even before they do. It's even more important because it affects them and it's so bad in my court that the law is passed in an emergency procedure. We see the support system radically changing, not in 2011, everything remains the same as before, with slightly lower limits, but in the coming years our farmers will certainly get something less than they get today. In Croatian agriculture and so far, there has been a lot of illogicalness, there is no state as I talked about subsidies that have set out more than the Croatian state for different categories of social rights, some of the rights are related to specific war, aggression in Croatia, etc. Support to defenders, but also few countries have allocated such amounts of gross products or their budgets either for shipbuilding, or for agriculture, or for support abroad, or for political prisoners, some social structures, etc., etc. When I say there was a lot of illogicality, I can only mention agricultural land in Istria. Two years ago, it was sold for 14 euros per square metre, in contests opened by the ministry, today it is important to do so differently. Today, for 14 euros in Istria, you can't even sell tourist land. While in Liechtenstein at the same time the square meter was sold for 11 euros, in Lumbarda or Korusca 3, 4, 5 euros, in other parts of Croatia one, two kunas, is now about Istria, in Istria, but the problem is that no one is simply buying anything anymore. As far as incentives are concerned, I dare say there are incentives in Croatia and in the role of buying political peace in the country. What individuals were looking for, they could get for their vote. And where are we now? In 2011, and this is the election year everything will be by old age, but the real war on the route government of peasants will lead to de facto that future government in 2012 and there will be no money, Shucker owed us to the seventh generation, the noose is around our necks, yesterday he told us on HRT where to save, incentives, wages, pensions, social welfare, and what else health care and what cigarettes. Fuchs today announces school shutdown, Mr. Markovanovic, about 150. Don't do that, it would be even worse than shutting down municipalities. This again shifts the burden to the parents, but what can we expect in 2011? The gross product in this year continues to fall, industrial production has gone to hell, tourism does not bring as much as we hoped, agricultural incomes are where they are, duty grows etc., etc. I said before that we simply need to translate some terms into an understandable language. There's talk of... , the ark, the judg, etc. [[You don't understand.]] What I certainly welcome is an article of the 17th of this legal text that speaks of control on the ground, then a reduction, the exclusion of those who would falsely present their claims. It is clear that we must agree that there can be no State fraud, but the essence of the law is Articles 23,25, 26. which speak about financial frameworks etc., but what is an important condition for the achievement of direct payments for family farms which have in the previous calendar year achieved more than 24 thousand kuna of direct payments is the status of income tax payer, the holding company based on the activities of agriculture. And that's what our farmers need to know. But what do we do? In 2012, and with that sentence, I will end up because I see that the table, we are taught to give up, to sacrifice, to suffer, so it is my turn to less than those who look at us, so it is my turn, that no one will shed a tear for us here in the assembly or government, so it is my turn to know that the back and 2012. Who's the only one who's gonna do it? Those who will repeat the mandates no, someone else likely is, but it is certain that the position of farmers will soon not be as it has been in recent years.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56861	First of all, the information that's running out of time for individual applications. Then we have two corrections of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Mariana Petir, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56862	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In his theatre talk on the state of agriculture, counterpart Cain said that the incentives in agriculture are actually there because of the purchase of social peace in the country. That's not true, colleague Cain. Because all European countries have incentives in agriculture. They're defined in different ways. Croatian incentives in agriculture and laws are there to increase the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture, to protect domestic production, to protect people living in the country and, of course, to help those people produce quality healthy food. Whether or not all the priorities of this can be discussed, but your finding that incentives are shared to buy social peace is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56863	Thank you. And second correction, colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague of Cain's, like my colleague Petyr said, talking about agriculture, he talked about everything and everything, so it's really hard to fix. I'll fix two allegations, one that's fixed. A colleague of Cain says: "Incentives were being given and rising to the village." It did not rise to the village, colleague Cain, but was invested precisely in the recovery through these incentives of our village and the survival of Croatian peasants in the country. Your colleague Petir told you, there are incentives in other countries, and they are justified. Another incorrect quote is a quote saying, "Fuchs shuts down schools." It's not true, schools aren't shut down, schools aren't cut out. We need to make that clear to our citizens. The legal status of the school is changing. This means that in a small place where the school has 50 or 60 students it will still survive, but it will not be a home school. I don't think 50 students will have a principal, a secretary, an accountant, and I don't know how many administrations. At this time, we need to think about it. Whether to do it right now or not, that's another question, but schools won't shut down and disappear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56865	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Oh, I'm sorry. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56866	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mr. Cain, if the total income of Croatian agriculture were 7 billion then all what you said would absolutely be as you said, but thank God the total income of Croatian agriculture means plant production and livestock production in Croatia is 22 billion kuna. That's a big difference, seven and 22 billion. Now, this finding will probably help you look differently at what this government or this government or government ultimately all in the Republic of Croatia have done in the context of agricultural support in the context of creating more competitive agricultural production. Maybe I should say two more sentences, that's a lot of speeches, and that's what they talk about a lot. A little bit about the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture. The best indicator of competitiveness is external trade. Croatia in part of the trade, I am free to say, has a balanced external trade balance. In 2009, in direct trade, Croatia exported around 2 billion and 200 million, 2 billion and 200 imported, exported a billion and 400. I'm talking round numbers. So she achieved a $800 million deficit. Croatia in tourism generates total income of around 7 billion euros, not dollars, euros. Minimum, the simplest and simplest bill minimum 10% of the revenue achieved from tourism waste on food and drink. Which means that this balance or export should be added to practically another 700m euros or converted into dollars per year, which is about a billion dollars. That's true. Tourism consumption is exports without crossing borders. And we can't ignore the consumption of food and drink, so agricultural products through tourism. Also in the part of the delivery of support data, I have to say that you're a little confused. At one point you are talking about the total yearly support level in 2009, that cca 3.5 billion, and then in 2010 you are only one type of support. Incentive production and intervention with 2 billion and 295 million kuna. You know, if that's how it's presented then of course it's coming, but I think we need to be consistent with the presentation, so if in one year the full amount of incentive, then we have to be insecure about it in a second year, rather than giving the same indicators. Because that's the only way to compromise. It can't be combined if we put everything on one side, and in the second year, not all of it, and then we're gonna compromise, then it's a little bit of me saying cheating on certain listeners. What else do you say? You mentioned agricultural land. This situation was regulated two years ago by the price of the sale of state agricultural land on the basis of the market price. IS it fortunate, or unfortunately, that in this part of which you spoke, the price was 14 euros, and so, at one point, we cannot respect the law without respecting it, the Law regulated it. But it has nothing to do with this topic today, I will not elaborate too much here, I can only say that everything that has been done so far in the context of support for agriculture has created the assumption that Croatia's agriculture practically survives because without support, without State intervention through support, unfortunately Croatian agriculture would not exist. Because you can't compete in a globalised and liberalized market with someone who's making significantly greater support. And the fact is Croatia became a member of the World Trade Organisation in 2000, through which it defined its relationship with the World Trade Organisation, liberalised the market, in 2001 we signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, a further step in market liberalisation and, of course, how to compete in such a market, how to compete with someone with greater support. It is not possible, in the European Union during the whole period, that there was significantly greater support in direct production, and then when certain products in the European Union were surpluses, for example cheese, or some other products then provided an even greater possibility of using export conventions, that further price, which was conditionally reduced with the level of support, was reduced due to the granting of export subsidies. And unfortunately, in such circumstances, Croatia did not follow as much as it could, as far as its financial opportunities were possible, if it had not followed that trend, unfortunately there would be no Croatian agriculture. But talk about the absence of Croatian agriculture, when Croatia's agriculture achieves almost a billion and 500 million dollars of exports directly when practically through tourism it places almost a billion dollars of food, I think it is at least unserious. On the other hand, Croatia, that part of the primary products has significant imports, but on the other hand Croatian in the part of the processing, it can be said that there is surplus, example meat, yes, we are not satisfied. In pig meat, when we look at that market consumption of pig meat, then we can say that 30% is taking up imports. But also market consumption of meat is also 50% of the consumption of pig meat, because we know that about 50% more meat is not going through the canals of marketing. It goes through the way it goes, slaughters the piglet, puts it in a freezer and similar and makes pigs as it is in the tradition of the Croatian people and we have nothing against it. And of the part that is market 30% of Croatia imports. But also in the area of meat processing, Croatia achieved a surplus last year in a $20m trade. It means that even in that part of imported meat, he has done something, done something, and well exported the product to a foreign market and thus increased his competitiveness. Here, I wouldn't elaborate too much, but I had to say, because this theory about the practically minor absence of Croatian agriculture stretches. What is the problem of Croatian agriculture is a short period of transition, leaving for a short time when the agricultural economy had to be structured. So over a short period of time, we had to invest a lot, and it now burdens the price of the product and, of course, in this context, our competitiveness decreases, which the assets of the loan pay, significantly burden the price of the product. Agriculture is not highly accumulative production, it cannot and is not difficult to endure large duties and great anunities. But on the other hand, you know what it was in 2007, especially in 2008 such a price hike, that already in 2009, we have the highest level of agricultural prices, all the inputs based on those prices that came into the plant, so that in 2008, we have the lowest level of prices. These are blows that have been difficult for farmers in the countries of the European Union. More about the support, or the amount of support in the European Union, it is our financial envelope, which is Circa 373 can now say 383 million direct payments and 352 million rural development measures on that 25% of the national components, so we are crossing 6 billion, is our financial framework of support in the European Union. And so far, we've paid top dollar 3.5 billion. So we haven't gotten to the ceiling yet. And secondly, support in agriculture is legally and legitimately paid support unlike some other sectors which, unfortunately, are not legal and are not accepted by the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56867	Thank you. Correction to the quote of colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56868	I think the minister has denied himself more than I have, except for this information, I misquoted it, the total production. It is clear that it is necessary to encourage agriculture, clearly to preserve agriculture, clearly to encourage our peasant, as you say, and to reform agriculture. However, here I now quote your statement on Day 24. 2. 2010. "All incentives for peasants in 2010 will be 40% less only milk support continue to be paid in 100% amount," and then, among other things, you say the fact is that the budget for promoting competitiveness in agriculture instead of the planned 3.2 billion in this year, only 2 billion 190 million kuna can be allocated to farmers, Minister Cobankovic said at yesterday's meeting with farmers. Therefore, he most honestly explained that everyone in the farm is cut linearly from 40%. However, we will surely agree that agriculture should be preserved, that it should be encouraged, that the little one should be helped more, and the large ones in some way might be reconsidered. But the one who encouraged me here today is Mrs. Rocksandic who said that you're up to 150 students won't close and...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56869	You used your colleague Caine's license plate... Right behind this point goes the package... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Right behind this point is a set of standards and education laws, and then you'll clear it up. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is now the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party. Dear fellow MP Zdravko Kelić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56870	Dear Vice President, Honorable Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate, I'll tell the ministers if the ceiling is above us it'll be great. By adopting the Decision on Croatia's accession to the European Union, we knew that we had to adopt both European legislation and those policies that are common to all Member States and thus the common agricultural policy. By carefully reading the European Union's common agricultural policy, we see that this policy is a function of protecting agricultural producers. Incentives, direct payments are defined as support for farmers' income. The basic course of development of this policy is to retain agricultural production, to keep the total agricultural land in the food production function or to be maintained in a good production state so that it can be put into that function at any moment. The new Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development is a necessary step in the further process of harmonising Croatia's agricultural support system with European ones. This is a continuation of compliance with European legislation, which was initiated by the adoption of the Support Act in the summer of last year. The basic definitions and payments introduced per area were then set as the basic form of direct payments. This bill lays down a framework for all the following state support in agriculture, direct payments, support for rural development and specific support for agriculture. European agriculture would not be competitive if there were no incentives, but also a common agricultural policy has developed an incentive control system, because this is taxpayers' money to be spent on purpose. When it comes to aiding agriculture in us, the most talk about incentives, direct payments. In the past, incentives have been given per kilogram or cattle' throat, and recently incentives are given per hectare of the agricultural area as annual payments for agricultural land on which agricultural crops are grown for meadows and pastures and for other types of land use other than the type of production, i.e. non-binding payments. However, it is of paramount importance that the production-related payments are still being retained. That's what our farmers understand best, and that's what they're used to most. Excessive removal of these aids would surely cause much greater problems than those we already have. This law found that 9 sensitive sectors would be maintained on productively linked payments in order to facilitate the transition to a new system that would become less and less related to production. These are the milk, suckler cows, dairy cows, sheep and goats, pigs and top cattle in livestock and tobacco, sugar tails, olive oil in vegetable production. It could be said that the determined financial resources are not exactly in line with the expectations of the producer, especially when it comes to certain types of production for which only basic payments per agricultural area will be retained. However, this is precisely the basic area payment of the most significant item in all direct payments. However, a budgetary framework has been proposed within the limits of real opportunities that will allow it to ultimately be actually paid to farmers. Unfortunately, some support sectors are being reduced. This sets out the milk sectors above all else, and then the pig husbandry sector. We understand that there are sectors where the current level of payment within the European Union is lower in the case of milk or does not exist in the pig sector in this form at all. However, it is certain that European producers in these sectors enjoy other benefits and therefore need to find a way to compensate producers for the loss that will objectively result from the fall in direct payments. The common agricultural policy of the European Union has developed a number of ways to support agriculture only when taken together, only when it is seen how complemented it has come to the true picture of support for European farmers. As support provided through rural development measures in the European Union is significantly complemented by direct payments and contributes to the increased competitiveness of agricultural producers. To mention only the most significant measures of rural development. Supporting investments or investments in agriculture and agricultural and environmental payments. At this point, we have received some indications of how much money we can expect from the European Union for support in agriculture when we become a full member so that we can expect from 350 to 372m euros for direct payments, and for rural development measures 350m euros, it means almost equal amount. The European Union calls direct payments and rural development to the first and second pillars of the common agricultural policy, as seen in the amount of funds provided for in Croatia as well. Direct payments were developed, processed, justified, and rural development was slightly left behind. Until Croatia's accession to the European Union, rural development has not been developed, and in the section relating to the post-accession period, the European Rural Development Regulation is being transposed. While the budget for 2011 and 2012 is being elaborated for direct payments, it makes it clear how much individual producers can expect for rural development measures nothing has been worked out and who can expect what to be expected. A particularly important rural development measure is payments for the implementation of agro-environmental measures and payments for agricultural areas in areas with difficult conditions of holdings. European rules for these purposes must be allocated at least 25% of the funds reserved for rural development. Some countries separate much more and more than 70%, such as Austria. In the case of Croatia, this means that in the first years of membership in the European Union we could separate about one billion kuna from rural development for these payments. The bill that is before us does not tell us who can and under what conditions these funds will receive. It is therefore necessary to prepare rural development measures as soon as possible. We consider it important to retain and support measures for the income of agricultural economies now included in rural development measures. To date, this support has been used by a total of 19116 agricultural holdings, i.e. 24291 people through two groups totalling 168 million kuna per year. The measure of support for income to agricultural holdings is important for the social security of agricultural producers who are just prior to retirement and the withdrawal from active agriculture paves the way for young farmers. This measure also has a replacement in European policy, early retirement measures. Support for young farmers and support only to supply economies will replace this measure. It would point out that the changes to be made by a new way of paying direct payments must also be compensated by rural development measures, but also by market regulation measures, as well as by specific support measures for agriculture. This bill reduces the funding for livestock, for livestock production, the payment of direct payments per hectare of the agricultural area will not replace those payments especially in the regions where livestock is our most developed, and this is central Croatia. That is why it is necessary to immediately come up with measures that will amortise this change and provide additional funding to this sector which has a perspective both in Croatia and in terms of exports. In particular, we consider an important modulation of the reduction in payments by 8% for producers receiving more than 100 000 kuna incentives and 12% reduction for those receiving more than 2 million and 160000 kuna. Today in Croatia 1% of the total number of agricultural holdings receives more than 36% of direct payments. On average, over 80,000 kuna a month. This is the 2007 data, and they speak for themselves. It is important to monitor and develop and, with the simulations prepared, see on paper what effects this law will have on the maintenance and development of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. We need to ensure three objectives for every responsible national agricultural policy, competitive agricultural production, sustainable use of natural resources, quality living standards in rural areas. As these are also the objectives of the common agricultural policy, and as we observe that in the European Union, we believe that EU membership is a great opportunity to be able to take advantage of even though there is fear and pessimism in part of this law and alignment with the legislation of the European Union. From all of this, we believe that there is room we would say moderate and real optimism. If everyone who can contribute to that association we believe that success is possible even though it won't be a bit simple. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will also support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56871	Thank you very much, colleague Kelic. It is up to the club of representatives of the HNS, HSU and distinguished colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56872	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Proposer. We have before us a bill that we can say belongs to that category of very late laws. In fact, the lack of over-supervised, solid on a programme of development of defined legislative matter regarding subsidies in agriculture has caused a number of problems in particular over the past ten years and has actually created conditions that are difficult to change in order to catch up with the practice of other European countries, while protecting vital strategic interests in the agricultural production of the Republic of Croatia itself. If we know that so far the Republic of Croatia has put about 25 billion kunas into different forms of subsidies of agricultural products, and in particular the incentives raised by around 25 billion kunas, the question is whether such large resources have solved the only major problem of Croatian agriculture. 25 billion kuna is a huge amount. If we put it in line with the value of major development projects, then we'd only see how much money went into the sector without it, and that the agriculture sector didn't make it more competitive than those conditions we might have had until the Homeland War. If we compare production quotas, if we compare the yields, we'll see that we haven't moved much. There are structural changes, but unfortunately they are not equivalent to such great value as the huge 25 billion investment. Let's just imagine that half of that amount was spent on land melliorisation and flood prevention systems. Let's just imagine that. So that we invested $2 and a half billion in the construction of the irrigation system, and that we deliberately invested the rest in the strategic development of those production branches that Croatia needs or with which Croatia can go to any of the European markets in the first place. So, have we addressed the issue of agricultural land rounding over the past 20 years with the overall agricultural policy? No, I don't. Still compared to everyone in our environment, we have a fragmented, almost atomized agricultural land where the dominant group is made up of owners of agricultural holdings that have less than 3ha. Furthermore, have we defined what we want and what we need to produce in terms of the strategic needs of the Republic of Croatia and of those opportunities that are available to us in the already saturated European market. There are no more than 10 products on the European market that a new member can place and earn on them, which are mainly products that do not concern intensive agricultural production. It's not milk, it's not meat, it's not cereal, it's not potatoes. So none of the strategically important agricultural products. It's mostly top-of-the-line meat processing. It's healing herbs and everything that's connected to it. It's olives and olive oil and that's what's been done with fishing. For decades to sell fog that is a key Croatian agricultural product of wheat, and every year to go through calvary and circuses in buying, bargaining for ransom prices, blocking roads, so it's already funny. Did we make the farmer's type of production dominant in Croatian agriculture? If we exclude the industrial form of production produced by large agricultural systems, tycunized in the meantime, the share of farm production is still well below 50%. Furthermore, have we created a solid impermeable border on which the legality of food imports in the Republic of Croatia will be systematically controlled? What has the Ministry of Finance done over the past 15 years to prevent the Croatian border from being a place of smuggling, but to control the protection of domestic production? Have we put into operation a state agricultural land or are we still dominant in shikara and meadows? Two years ago, I had the opportunity to travel all of Hungary, even that part of Tokay to the Debrecen that is considered a wasteland, and I can say that it is fascinating how our Hungarian neighbours manage to maintain their orientation that practically not even a meter of agricultural land will be unused. What Croatia looks like, went to Prigorje, Slavonia, Baranja or Lika, everything is just not an expression of the concern of a good master. Have we achieved that Croatian agricultural product is dominant on a tourist, or catering menu in the Republic of Croatia? No, I don't. Unfortunately, we're not. Unfortunately, we're not. Let's look at the structure of what the Croatian tourist guest gets, in hotel companies and in the private catering sector and see how dominant the import element is, from fish to oil, from vegetables that are mostly frozen, to meat. So we failed to achieve that, and that is one of the most efficient forms of exports. It's a domestic export, where the buyer comes to you, a customer from abroad. Have we freed ourselves from imports, from the import of agricultural products? All the reports from the Ministry of Agriculture in the last 10 years say we haven't. Did we meliorize the land? Did we stop the big floods? We didn't. And in the end, have we established a long-term strategy for rural development? No, I don't. The Republic of Croatia has no rural development strategy. She has what the minister said in her opening statement of concept, a conceptual framework for agricultural policy. No regional, regional development strategy. Under such conditions, it is impossible to guarantee that Croatian agriculture will prosper within the framework of the European Union's common agricultural policy. It's impossible to expect us to be able to pull this financial envelope. But the question is, who is responsible for it? In the past 10 years, only two people have been agriculture ministers in the Republic of Croatia. My colleague Bozidar Pankretić 3 years, 3 and a half, 4, and Mr. Cobankovic more than 6 years. So 10 years, only two people, 10 years of agricultural development policy dictate only two political... and their concept. [[You don't understand.]] And we're where we are. Incentives on the surface are one of the widest areas for manipulation. There has recently been official information that 6 thousand 767 users have gone through various forms of control in 2009, and that 9 and a half percent of those who have been controlled have been found in the infringement and that it has been taken away, 25 million and 400 thousand kunas of valuable incentives that have been allocated, and we know that there are 90,000 users of incentives. Let us remember that example that I have already set, the land, the state agricultural land in Kušanac near Velika Gorica by political line allocated to party colleagues, as it was known that in this place, they would have privileged information that a loop for the highway would be built. Fruit groves were planted, never defended, they were encouraged. And not only that, years of damage to the native. What happened? The same tick that has a political mentor in the government, the government minister, carried only fruit to Lekenik, back on the highway route. That's how you do it, that's how you cheat on the state. How many such cases where incentives were found to have been received for land on which nothing was planted, not even virtual orchards? For 7 years, we know what the obligation of the Republic of Croatia is to join the process of harmonising agricultural policy. Seven years. Now we come with this law. Let's say that the justification for this firm political will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to take as good a position as possible before entering the European Union and as best as possible negotiating positions for quotas for agricultural production. Did we use those seven years? And are we better in a better situation today when we enter the European Union than we were seven years ago? Let's just look at Albania for what it did in the olive grove. Today, Albania does not import a single drop of olive oil, and traditionally large consumers are still Mediterranean people. The state has encouraged the planting of olives in many parts, up to 30 or 50 km from the sea, all planted with olives. Have we used these seven years? What we have done so that we can get into the final phase of the negotiations from a much better position today, that we will get these funds well out of the financial envelope and that what we cannot co-finance more from the state budget because it has become a political category for buying votes and social peace in the country will be compensated from European funds. Unfortunately, the opinion of the HNS-HSU club is that we are not sufficiently capacitated for this, and that we will have to change significantly and radically for the last year by finally adopting the Rural Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and making ourselves different in agricultural policy. The current situation in the ministry where the former secretary of state was also caught in sharing incentives to agricultural production illegally is practically a mirror of our existing situation, and it is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56873	We now have five applications for correction of incorrect allegations. First of all, dear colleague Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56874	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Beus, and there you are, and I thought every time you lambled like this, you went out. You're usually in the same topics as Mr. Caine's facts that have nothing to do with the truth because you're neither in the profession nor you understand what you're talking about, and then... Mild, sweet. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The truth is true, and this is at least treasure, you know. So it would be very good if you understood what you're talking about, rather than hitting on each other with the flossules. And now what I want to correct is that the ministry, Croatia and the government, and the government, as the minister said, did not prepare to join the EU particularly with regard to support, and in particular did Croatia manage to make a recognizable Croatian product in tourism? Yes! Yeah, buddy. The fact that Mr. Representative buys foreign products is one thing. Have you ever heard of 120 and some protected island products? Have you heard of Croatian protected product? And on the other hand, nice please, you may not be that visitor of the Croatian delicacies, I don't know that. Have you ever planted anything in your life, sown, eaten your homemade, but the foreigners greatly appreciate this Croatian product. They come to Croatia during the tourist season and post season to enjoy the delicacies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56875	Thank you, comrade twilight. Let's move on. Did you pick up a board of some kind? Tell me what's been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56876	The entire Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Vice President, was injured from Article 1 to the final provisions...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56877	Well, maybe it's because I see you've brought a gazelle, and according to the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't say, but you have a cafeteria in the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56878	... You must maintain relations in the coalition that's your problem, but as vice president of the Parliament you should consider that this... [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56879	I have that in mind, but you should keep in mind that on the council benches you can hold materials, I can hold laptops, computers, but not gallons. Because that's what we have a mess hall for. Let's move on with the debate, or the corrections. Comrade Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56880	Give me some of this bell. Give me a little bell. Some people need a bell for sheep. Correction of an incorrect quote... Tie the bell around his neck. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is not true that the division of the agriculture minister's mandate was 3.5-6.5 years in favour of Cobankovic, Mr. Cobankovic, but was half-half. You forgot that HSS was in the coalition with the SDP and with you from 2000 to 2004. You didn't say. And besides, I wanted to, I'd be nicer than my colleague twilight, right? Namely, the correction of the incorrect allegations in connection with the peasant protests. I see you find them completely unnecessary, but he would ask you or question you correct an incorrect quote with three small questions. Why is a liter of milk cheaper than a liter of water, a liter of water? Why is a liter of beer 10 kilos of wheat? And why is the fuel tank 500 kilos or half a ton of wheat? If they knew the answer to those questions, they wouldn't be so bad at talking about peasant protests.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56881	Thank you. A fellow member, Niko Rebic, has also applied for correction of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56882	Thank you. Exactly what Mr Grubisic was saying, it is not true that only this coalition and that these two ministers were headed by the government that implemented the country's agricultural policy. Actually...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56883	My colleague Grubisic knows that because he was in the HSS then, too, so we were in the coalition together.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56884	But I wasn't a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56885	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56886	... was in the coalition and the HNS. [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]] And then for the first time, imports exceeded a billion and a half euros in Croatia. So that's the policy that your coalition led in which Pankretic participated and served as minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56887	We're moving on with the rectifications. Obviously, we're making a hell of a lot of amends. Here comes my dear colleague Frano Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56888	Thank you very much. So here's Mr. Richemberg saying that this government of Malta was giving signals on who's going to buy agricultural land when it comes to the road to Gorica. Well, you're using this stage again for incorrect information. But just to inform you, the first route, and you know where she was supposed to go, the government didn't give any information or this authority. If she'd given it then those people who really had the information wouldn't know who to buy the land from, and the route would have come with a different route. Therefore, those who bought originally of course screwed up. But at the same time, this government gave them information, and this government changed the course, and of course those who bought the land were found in unprotected grapes. So, just one more proof that you're wrong and don't use this pay phone here for such lies and that's what you're doing, that's what SDP does, you're only telling the truth about this people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56889	Thank you very much. I don't know if he bought anything or didn't. It's not. Here is the final application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague, Marijana Petir. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In his speech in false concern for peasants, my colleague Beus finally said exactly what he thought, he thinks and claims that the support was converted into buying votes. That is not true, fellow Beus, because we have passed the Agricultural Support Act here, which was voted by the majority of the votes, and this government and the Ministry are acting in accordance with this Law. So it's not about buying votes, it's about respecting the law. And if you know that someone has done malfeasances with agricultural land, when building highway Zagreb-Sisak if you know that someone has done malfeasances with support, it is your duty as a representative in the Croatian Parliament to report it to the competent state attorney's office, USKOK and the police, and not here to lamentate from the pay phone and accuse, so that everyone sitting here today in the ruling coalition is guilty, I reject it and it is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56891	Do not report it to Mariana or to us, report it to the State's Attorney's office. We're moving on with the club debate. HDSSB Club and counterpart Boro Grubisic, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, does the microphone work? Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the first sentence, I must refer to the chairman's comment that, since it was also a lack of vision, and also today about the development of agriculture, and that there is no strategy of agricultural production, so at the time, and even in that coalition I did not clearly respond when I was in HSS, but here I am not responding, therefore, this may be why I am in the ranks of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja. I would, even though I used this sentence, given your comment, once someone said that all pigs are equal and some are more equal. When we take the proposal of this Law on State Support to Agriculture and Rural Development in the context of these sayings that all pigs are equal and some equal then I must point out that indeed Croatian, Slavonski, Baranjsko or Srijemski pigdogism has put this legal proposal to a break. The Croatian state came before the same doubt when it comes to shipyards. Namely, the free market says if something is not successful then it needs to be liquidated. It is clear that cheap Korean shipyards owned by Europeans produce ships and that our shipyards are disturbing them. It is clear that Denmark is the largest pork producer in Europe and some besides Denmark, it is clear that the Croatian government and negotiators have given in and have not taken up a certain platform in the negotiations over the past seven years, clearly firm, and it is clear that they have agreed to the dictatorship of Europe. And their negotiators. What's this all about? The law that your government is proposing among other things provides for direct payments in pigmeat to hold a feeder in the amount of 530 kuna per throat. At the annual level, this amounts to 33 million and 120 thousand kuna. Direct payments, 62,000 490 head. Which represents the greatest impact on the survival of pigmeat production in the last 20 years. In the Republic of Croatia, and especially in the space of Slavonia and Baranja swineogojska production has a 100-year tradition. They say our old pigs have been harvested, but they obviously won't anymore, or they won't be able to. Most of the pig production in the Republic of Croatia took place in these areas. In order to encourage pig production and the creation of competitive economies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, your Government adopted an operational programme for the development of pig production in the Republic of Croatia at 130 sessions, 14 December and later. The programme was based on the provided financial means to be used or used to credit the construction of new production units, to supply equipment and the required number of breeding throats. In an effort to take advantage of comparative advantages, part of our Slavonski's agricultural economies decided to increase and launch pig production, so pig production, tow pigs, through loans from the operational programme. The debts of these farmers, agricultural holdings, of the CAP range from 3 to 10 million kuna. To get all this stuff I was saying. The law that is now proposed leaves these pig producers at bay, puts them in an unequal position compared to other producers, e.g. compared to those who plow on the junada. So, not only are pigs equal to each other and some are equaler than the bulls, but they're obviously more equal than the pigs. The annual needs of the Republic of Croatia are for the sheltered, the pigs, the pig's half, however you like, are 2 and a half million passengers. Of which, in their farms, the Republic of Croatia produces 960 thousand pieces in its production. And now we've only got a third, there's a little bit more domestic needs that satisfys our production, so we're going to re-import this, and we're going to import even more because the pig's production is going to fall in view of these promotional measures, and I'm going to talk about rural development later. We also have the smoking ban law that we are here in the Croatian Parliament after putting several times on the agenda and adopting. However, in 2011, therefore, that same year in which we reduce incentives for pigs, tobacco production with 66 million 876 thousand and 300 kuna will be encouraged, while pig production will be double lower, 33 million. Interestingly, we encourage, therefore, the production of 66 million tobacco and 33 million incentives for pig production. Is that too much, is that normal? The production of tobacco in the Republic of Croatia deals with 1500, about 1500 producers per about 5,000 hectares. I don't need to talk about pig production about what farms they are and who are the inputs to farms, food and everything else in the pig farm. To whom is the objective, I'm asking a question to you State Secretary, destroying pig production in agricultural holdings? To you, to Europe, to importers of meat, to meat processing, or to those who make a good living in this, to slaughter and to distribute a hero? And do you want me to say names that are people whose friends are political alike. You've ruled pork out of the likeness of it, and you've left the hero in the likeness. What kind of relationship to Slavonia, from which I know the minister also originates, and so do you. What will happen to Slavonia, pig-eating in Slavonia? What will happen to agriculture in the Republic of Croatia at all, and not to mention the food-processing industry of the Republic of Croatia, which is for now only in trails in Slavonia, and slightly more advanced in central Croatia where most of our Croatian food and processing industry is concentrated, where total production remains relative to some European concerted processing industry really small. Rural support. The second part, so other than those direct payments because this law needs to be translated into one, let's say, peasant language that they can understand it, the ones that are here. Believe me, by reading this personally, I can't understand it better, and how they're going to understand the people that this termology is like this, I'm not going to tell the sides, but it's so hard to understand. It's really hard to understand. Well, then here we have rural support or rural development. It has already been said here that the Republic of Croatia and all the governments that have been here have not brought the Rural Development Strategy. Why? It doesn't suit anyone, gentlemen. Someone is not responsible for establishing that Slavonia is almost a whole rural area, that GDP or gross social product, as he liked to say Sanader GDP in English, is the lowest in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem right in the Republic of Croatia. In order to build on these arguments, Slavonia, Baranja, and Srijem should withdraw most of the funds from this. But someone doesn't respond, someone doesn't want to bring in the Rural Development Strategy, someone doesn't want to level the standard of living in Slavonia and in some other parts of the Republic of Croatia. If that's what it's like, then someone's wrong, and someone's doing good, for better. But on the other hand, it seems to be an injustice which is clearly and loudly written by both the Croatian Economic Institute and the World Bank and the Croatian Bishop's Conference and all of us who travel and see what a city or town or village in Slavonia looks like compared to any part of the Republic of Croatia from Istria, Zagreb, Zadar, etc. So how long is that gonna be? And you are now passing this law that directly affects that agricultural region where more than 20% of people live on agriculture, which is Slavonia. In total, on average, in the Republic of Croatia 20% of people live exclusively in agriculture. In Slavonia, the percentage is higher, in some other parts it is lower, but the average is 20%. It's over 30% in Slavonia. So then the application of this legislative proposal, which dictates Europe at will, and we said so, so be it as you say, because we do not know how to negotiate differently, we are more European than the Europeans themselves, and that will hit the most Slavonia precisely because it refers to agriculture which is the main economic branch of Slavonia and Baranja. Indeed, the HDSSB has no reason to vote for such a bill as much as it is called European, which is why it is because large competitions, large economic groups, corporations dictate the pace and dictate the conditions of Croatia's entry into the European Union in order to get their hands on what Croatian wealth says today, but above all Croatia or the Slavonian countries. Because this way, the peasant will be forced to sell it cheaply to settle his debts to banks, and the banks are foreign and they come into possession of the Croatian and Slavonian countries. That's what Slavonia can't allow. That's what a Croatian man and a Slavonic man can't allow. We will not vote for this bill, and we will try to make sure that the people express their views in all possible democratic ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56893	We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56894	Well, it is incorrect for a colleague, Grubisic, that the incentives in shipbuilding are multiple than in agriculture, and it is not the first time that you from this pay phone whenever the problems in agriculture are not called shipbuilding, and in fact, the real truth is that the incentives in shipbuilding last year are 600 million kuna, and in agriculture are over 4 billion. So, if we look at it that way, it's a multiplier incentive than it is in the European Union. So, my wish is just to draw attention. I'm not against those incentives in agriculture. Indeed, but you never said anything about controlling these incentives as they are being spent and why they don't give the effects they should. And of course, I can't agree with us that agriculture in this country doesn't have a future, because it's actually the only serious industry this country is dealing with. What are we gonna do if we put it all out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56895	Let's go on, I don't think there's anything hurt. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable colleague, Marijana Petir, first reported. Here you go, Marianne.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56896	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. It is quite clear from what colleagues have been saying so far that we are passing a aid law aimed at harmonising our legislation and treating the field with what it is in other European countries. It is evident that the money that has been prepared for this purpose is quite treasonous. Croatia expects around 483m euros for rural development measures for the period 2012/2013. and EUR 144 million for market measures and direct payments in agriculture. Of course, the goal of all of us and the tasks of all of us should be to use that money and to make sure that many of the questions that are raised on the ground and the doubts that arise go in such a way that the villagers cry out to help them. They are aware that without the help of the state, without the help of units of local and regional self-government they are not sufficiently capacitated to take this money themselves. So, a farmer who works all day in the field can't write projects at night and according to such demanding applications as SAPARD, IPARD or what's just waiting for us because it's proven through the analyses and reports that we've discussed here that in fact the programs in agriculture, European programmes are the most complicated. That is why I advocate the capacitation of the Croatian Advisory Service, to help them to get more training and training now, if new people are to be hired. But I also appeal to county, city, municipal development agencies where they often sit similar rather than capable. If the county development agencies continue to employ the presidents of coalition partners of those who are in power in the given county, and this also applies to the city or municipality, and if people who know languages are not employed, who know how to read the program, then I think we can close this law in full today, so that we can put all the financial envelopes in the drawer because we won't be able to implement them. When I look at state secretaries, this article is the 26th where you define related payments. So, what concerns direct support for certain types of production my impression is that you somehow tried here to arrange this article to make the wolf full and the goat whole. Why am I saying that? Because, of course, each of us would set that list of eight priorities maybe in a different way. If I had done it, it would have been organic production and community bees and medicinal plants and indigenous breeds and much more. Because I think it is a priority in Croatian production, that we can be more competitive, that we are special, that it can be a good brand for sale and for our tourists who thank God here in a growing number come to Croatia. I think there may have been some segments in that article 26 just strayed. It is generally known that I am in favour of completely abolishing the support of the importers of agricultural products that are sufficient in Croatia and the generally known answers I receive from your ministry, so we will not enter into this debate in detail. But it seems to me that some of the parts that you've put in article 26 are going to be followed up with the fat geese again, and it seems to me that whatever you're thinking you need to satisfy everything that shouldn't have been done like that. Modulation in Article 21, especially in the part where we talk about a high level of support, where we're talking about two million and what I think was supposed to be more than 12%. We've advocated the concept of family economies. We put this in the rebirth of Croatian villages. We signed this as coalition partners, and we haven't changed that. So the priority in agricultural policy, in the laws we make, should be to have family farms. The big ones take care of themselves anyway, and I think that part of the modulation was supposed to go with a much higher percentage when it comes to reducing support big ones. I'm asking you to think about it. I also have to tell you that I've been approached by little cheeses. So, I absolutely support this proposal of yours regarding the protection of the most sensitive groups and these are dairy producers and this is not disputed. But when we talk about small cheeses, I think that farmers who deal with the processing of milk in their holdings from their animals are wrongly neglected and in the distribution of these aids, because it is not clear why the man who gives milk to the great milkman is worthy of state support, and the little cheeser who processes his milk in cheese did not deserve support. This absolutely does not make any sense, and higher than the fact that HASAP exists and already today it is being implemented on these small family economies and it is possible to control the quality of the milk processed into a siren. Also what I often talk about, but I can see that somehow you'd rather sit down, talk to these guys who protest. We who don't protest can't get any expressions. We stand for dialogue, but it seems to me that sometimes it goes into the wind. I think you've misjudged the bees of the community. In Article 28, if you were to provide support on the surface, which I am saying from that aspect, I would, of course, put the bee communities in that particular kind of direct payments, because really without bees there would be no biodiversity in which Croatia is 4th in Europe, nor would there be food production. Today, when bees are threatened everywhere in Europe, when truly major diseases are plagued by other European countries, bees as the largest pollinator and as animals that really contribute to biodiversity, the biological balance is on a major scale, threatened with disappearance. If the bee disappears, there will be over 20,000 plant species in one place, which will negatively affect the overall ecological balance, and it is estimated that bees question more than 70% of the crops that humanity feeds, and that the total value of pollination in the farming carried out annually is between 1.2 billion and 5.2 billion euros. As a result, I think bees and beekeepers should have received more significant support in this law. I know you'll answer me that you put them in rural development, as you put environmental producers, as you put in indigenous breeds. It's clear to me, but I think if something is the priority of this country, then that state has to show it in an adequate way, and that means it has to be financially supported. In Article 60, you are talking about specific types of support. And I agree with what you suggested, but I have a supplement here. I think there should be support for the preservation of space and biodiversity and for traditional products. While the Croatian peasant lives in the Croatian village, the country is processed, there is no grower, food is produced, it is preserved, and it deserves compensation and it is common in all European countries. People in my county, some of them, I contacted, are going to Austria, and municipalities and cities are paying them to cut grass in rural areas and get money for it, because rural space is devastated in other European countries, because there are no spacekeepers there, there are no peasants. We have our peasants here, and they live, no matter how difficult it may be for them or what conditions they may be. Some have neither adequate municipal nor social infrastructure, but remain in the Croatian village. Let's value it for them. They are the guardians of Croatian space. They hold cattle that go to pastures. If it wasn't for that cattle in the pastures, there wouldn't be biodiversity. Let's give them a fee for that. The other problem I see, which is the most important problem, and if it is not solved, there will be no law enforcement. This law can be the most ideal in the world, all of my remarks that I have said, which are well-intentioned, and they serve exclusively for the purpose of improving the law, is the problem of enrolling in the ark. If we won't have registered land in the ARCOD there won't be support, it's one through one clear. And how are we gonna get land into the ARCOD if 105 units of local self-government didn't bring in the program? I don't know what these people are doing, what they're thinking. When we passed the Agricultural Land Act. It's a clean obstruction of agricultural production. You don't have to throw a spear in the thorns, I'm not into it. We don't have to accept everything we're offered, but what's our job is to protect our national interests, protect our domestic production, which is not always easy, but we need to persist in that part. I ask you to take these remarks that I have made, to really take them seriously, and please, Secretary of State, you know about the problem of managing pastures and meadows, to sit down, to solve that part, so far there are only 3,000 acres of pastures, which means either they are not used, or that they are used in a way that people are not listed as being supported, which is also not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56897	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First of all, dear colleague Jerko Roshin. Here's your colleague, Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My replica is, in fact, a certain way of looking for an explanation of what my colleague said, or what she suggested. She spoke of import support, before counterpart Grubisic talked about how much pigs are all equal or not equal, she now said about the need to protect production, which I absolutely agree with... But one thing remains unknown in all this together. [[You don't understand.]] In terms of the incentive of certain production. We're famous for the prosciutto, prosciutto is like some of our indigenous products that... And we're buying practically prosciutto so we can, uh, buy pork so we can make prosciutto. [[You don't understand.]] If we have a market for our domestic market, and if that market can have an export dimension of product quality, then isn't it unusual that we have to import so that we can have our own product instead of making it? One of them told me, he says pigs stink. Now I don't know what that means, but many others have difficult working conditions, bread barks need to be earned in some way. Even the smell of gasoline that a lot of people care about, but knows how to poison. So illogically and unusually, and I'd like to find an explanation why we're introducing half-pigs, or thighs so we can make prosciuttos instead of producing them ourselves because we already have a market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56899	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56900	Here's my colleague Roshin, and I'd like to know why we're importing certain things and I have to say that sometimes I worry when I see statistics, although here they're going lately for export and not for agricultural imports, which is a good trend if it continues. When I spoke about Article 60, I mentioned that I advocated introducing additional support in rural development measures, which are support for traditional products, and that is exactly what you are saying, to introduce support for both prosciutto production and kitchen production, and for the production of dingers, and for production... sausages and starches and all that, all that our people have been producing for years, what our tourists like to try and have a good perspective on the market. [[You don't understand.]] That is why I believe that in the first part, when we talk about direct payments, about direct aid to certain production branches, different priorities should be identified, because the impression is being gained, and what you have mentioned is that simply some products that we can produce ourselves are imported, that these importers still have the support, that they are making huge profits on these imports-exports, import-export variants, and that those family economies that deal with traditional production there have not received adequate space and adequate support.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56901	And a second application of the replica, dear colleague Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56902	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So you mentioned to your colleague Petir about consulting farmers and regarding multiple compliance that the Croatian Institute for the Agricultural Advisory Service should be better equipped, or more people if it is necessary to accept it because it is certainly one of the important and important components of how to withdraw certain funds especially by entering the EU. However, that is why I gave the amendment, which is only the amendment related to what was agreed with the Croatian Veterinary Chamber and Minister Cobankovic to treat the system of counselling for users in this article and through the Croatian Agriculture Advisory Service and Veterinary Organisation. Why is this amendment given and why should it be like that? Well, that's exactly what you were saying. It's a matter of expertise and professional people. Just the largest part of these checks, or regulations are related to veterinary... Secondly, there are 605 authorised veterinarians and 140 authorised veterinary organisations that can carry out this work and work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that, without a problem, this Article 3 and 4 should be translated, i.e. paragraphs 3 and 4 as set out in this amendment to mine. And precisely because only 1 veterinarian works in Croatia as far as veterinary professions are concerned by agricultural advisory services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56903	Replication response, colleague Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56904	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bodakosh, I think we agree that our public administration has to become a government capable of working, who are able to work, who are trained to do so should be given more space and that they should be paid. Anyone of course from the aspect of their profession can make adequate suggestions there. It seems to me that without the capacitated advisory service at all levels not only at the state level and without the help of municipalities, cities and counties we will actually do a dead end. The peasant simply can't write the projects alone, I repeat that. Strong millions in a financial envelope that will not be used anywhere from all these funds will not be taken unless the projects comply with the regulations. We have seen how many laps we have for SAPARD, we see that the same story is repeated at IPARD because the procedure is extremely complicated and only with the competent people in the public administration, with people who are trained, who are educated, who speak languages can be helped to build adequate projects for our agricultural producers, to enable them to take money from funds, to enable them to make their agricultural production more competitive with that money. So, of course, with this money, they are in charge of their family economies, and what is most important to me as representatives of the HSS is that they have the conditions to stay in the Croatian village because they are the guardians of Croatian space.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56905	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's our guest, Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56906	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law is the last step in the process of harmonising Croatia's agricultural support system with more than 90% of the budget managed by the ministry. There is very little time left until our country enters the EU. There is even less time left for the end of accession negotiations, but time is enough to take this final step in due time after a applicable law was passed in July last year on the basis of which it began with a gradual adjustment. Then the time frame was set, but concluded with 2010 which is now needed to continue. The adoption of this law is one of the criteria for the successful completion of the negotiations on Chapter 11 - Agriculture and rural development. However, the new Support Act is needed not only because of the EU's harmonisation. Agriculture must meet the requirements set before it by modern society and the public. In particular, it is important to deal with the challenges that the world has brought about by the economic crisis and thus agriculture. In this context, this law should also be seen as a contribution to the long-term sustainability of a strategically important economic branch. As a contribution to further strengthening the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture and the preservation and development of rural space. This is also the reason why the adoption of this law is included in the Economic Recovery Programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This law further discusses the importance of control and control of the spending of agricultural aid. Of course, it's the right producers, and by our judgment, the vast majority, will not be a problem, and that's what the producers themselves expect from us. The starting point of the bill was a document adopted by the Government in February of this year called "A Reform of the Agricultural Support System in Croatia in the period 2010-2013, the conceptual framework for agricultural policy in the pre-accession period". The document has also been positively assessed by the European Commission. In the draft law, Croatia will be a member of the Union in 2012, which means by the end of 2011, we must be prepared in every respect for the implementation of the direct payments system applied to the EU. We're on the best track to do that. The key parts of the law are direct payments for 2011 in which individual elements of the Croatian direct payment model will last be applied. For all agricultural areas where agricultural crops are grown, payments are provided for on the basic agricultural area which are not related to the type of production. The second key part is the application of a single direct payment model from 2012 which is to the greatest extent possible in line with the European system, while respecting Croatian specificities in certain sectors. The selection of the basic direct payment model to be applied from the moment of full EU membership has led to a decision to make this a regional model of single direct payments that is most favourable for Croatia and enables the retention of related payments in individual sectors. The law also introduces state support for agriculture, which in the European legislation represents a single set of rules in which the provisions on the protection of competition applicable in agriculture are harmonised. This means that during the three-year transitional period in the state budget, funds will be provided for some sensitive sectors. It's about sugar tail support, olive oil, tobacco, and milky... according to selective control and fertilizers. The third key part of the Law is the rural development policy as the main part of the future European policy in Croatia. In the chapter of the Law relating to rural development, measures are divided into rural development measures for the period until and after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Support for rural development today is represented by less than 20% of the total Croatian agricultural support, which should be approximately doubled in the next two years. In particular, the importance of support for the area with more difficult management conditions should be highlighted here, where additional funds can be allocated on a horizontal basis, which are actually an add-on to direct payments. It also applies to support for organic and integrated production. By adopting this Act in the Croatian Parliament, Croatia will strongly demonstrate its readiness to end agricultural negotiations by the end of this year, as well as its readiness to implement reforms. However, it is even more important that a legal framework will be adopted in due time for next year for our farmers who will be much easier to make business decisions and plan future production under this Law. We are confident that precisely because of this law, our farmers will be in a much better position when we enter our country into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56907	Thank you. Since there is a question, yes, we will be working today without a break as announced Monday by the President of the Parliament, so that as many of these points as possible will be completed today. And it is up to the individual debate of the distinguished representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56908	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So this today's Support Act, which we are certainly discussing here, is certainly one of the most important documents that should determine the direction of Croatia's agriculture, according to the assessment of all of us. However, not only in the time before the entry into membership in 2011, because we refer most to 2011, but especially the moment when we will enter the European Union, and when these support will also determine the further development of us and Croatian agriculture. The aid law has its origin since 2002, in such or such a form but connected in some way with resources, however, in this Law which lasted until 2009, there have been major changes, changes and often these changes are heading in the direction, that according to the daily political situation as well as the 9th. 1. In 2009, a government regulation, then Prime Minister Sanader, was adopted where corn was increased from 1250 to 2250 and thus created a 300 million-dollar dubiosis for which unfortunately, I don't know if those 205 million were paid in 2008. So I just pointed out that the law is one distribution of money for the agriculture sector, so the financial envelope that we had, which was once more than 3 billion, is now less than 3 billion, will be in 2011, 2.4 billion, therefore, whether we go down or up. This today, what we will have when we enter the European Union, will certainly be one starting point with these 373 million direct payments and 352 million for rural development, one good starting point for all agricultural production. This is mentioned today by the minister, it is 6 billion we are never so many, etc., but it should survive in 2011, and with such legal provisions that we have given here for 2011 I am afraid that many of our productions, and in particular this concerns livestock farming, will come into a difficult situation and the question of who will be able to receive money for 2012 if we get something from Europe. And last time there was a debate, I warned about changes to the law and this kind of material requires an analytical debate, a debate that will look at all the elements. When this reform is ahead of us, when the short deadline is before entering Europe, unfortunately we received this material on Friday, yesterday was the Committee, today we will discuss and I do not know tomorrow. How much of the opinion of the agricultural chamber, the Chamber of Commerce, the Veterinary Chamber, the Association, etc., is positive for this law, I would like to see it, however, and I have asked the Committee a question, nothing has been answered. What's problematic and what's sure to hit us this year is a reduction in these support. I know, and the minister said that, he said, it went down in Slavonia, that if we went to the hectare then Slavonia would get more because there was more land, and now we went to the tied area and it would be less per hectare, but that's why it's going to be given for livestock farming, but also Slavonia has a very well-developed pig husbandry. So we've reduced in the country, and now we're going to reduce in pig farming, or livestock, and I don't know when or how. To talk to people from Slavonia, especially small producers, in order to have a much different opinion than what the minister and secretary of state present here is that it's very good and that it's going to be. Maybe that's good to end the negotiations, maybe it's good to go to Europe, but we also used to share, what I said, money according to political opportunities. And this looks like some kind of political opportunity or trouble that makes us have to go like this. However, the facts are quite evident, in 2009 560 million were paid for milk, 2011 will be paid 275 million. In cattle, total beef 552 million, 355 million. In pig farming, 95 million will now be 33 million. Otherwise the bees of the community, honey, etc., and especially since, I do not unfortunately know from the governing structure some who are directly interested and who have had as much as we related talks about seeds of growth, bulls, etc., total breeding seed, stimulation that is completely abolished. I think this will all lead to that development, or what should be the development of that livestock, being reduced because since 2009, when we had a billion 300 million, we are now going to give 731 million for that livestock industry. I think it's bad things, and that's why it's gonna show that some of those who live off that livestock that's gonna go bad. That is why I think that, in this reference year, the basis for and for the cultivation of bulldozers, or the sector of bovine animals, should be at least at the level of 2010. The issue of milk production as well. We have a lot of milk, which is 20% not in the EU category. What's going to happen to them? They won't get any funding in 2011. And especially what I said about pig husbandry, the level of support in pig farming should be maintained at least at the level of 2010 because it is precisely this and the most vulnerable sector that will also be in the situation that this will say so in our country and perhaps not say no, but it will be reduced safely to 1/3 of what we have today. What's more important in this whole system is why we've just chosen these productions and what we're protecting and why they're protecting these productions. In this part, I think we need to consider that the productions that will protect producers or maintain their existence is important, especially in this small sector or rural sector that we are talking about today only in the sense that it will all go into rural development. Finally, I think that the issue of rural development is one of the problem issues because we have not yet developed certain materials, i.e. rural development programmes. We don't have, we don't have a strategy or I don't know what we have, but we don't have any implementing plans, we don't know the programs that will, and I think it's a good thing what my colleague Petir said, we have to go through all possible services and veterinary and advisory services and plant production, etc., all of these services to create such a situation to mobilize these rural areas, that products that are like these and that can be withdrawn from this part of rural development that we have these programs. And quite finally, I think that often times, and it is always present here when the EU, relating to European laws, is strictly called upon so, in one way or another, I don't know and we have to do so in no other way. However, frequent changes in administrations in the European Union are both support systems and are now being announced in 2013 when there will be a new system. I'm afraid that our law, and while it lives, will already be applied in Europe, but it will be bad if this resuscitation of this law is caused by the destruction of certain sectoral productions in which it receives much less funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56909	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56910	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bodakosh, you have asked one rhetorical question as to how many associations, agricultural chambers, alliances, have participated in the drafting of this law. Here I would like to say here publicly that I received a memo from the Croatian Peasants' Union a few minutes ago. They spoke to the ministry and the minister. I know you talked, and they said it orally at the meeting. It's about support for suckler cows. You're looking for an increase in throat to 2,000 kuna. I personally think it's justified because it's actually a category that's important for the production of baby beef. We are often prone to boast and promote our domestic junior, or baby beef as something produced in our pastures, but we must be honest and say that the tovils are mostly filled with imported heroes. I am personally saddened by the fact that baby buffet has a good perspective and can be our brand, and this is what the suckler cows who are on our pastures and Posavina and Moslavina and in other parts of Croatia contribute to. It is also important for the local population and for nature protection, for the production of young junetine as an export product and as our brand that this amendment of the Croatian Peasant Union is respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56911	The answer to the replica, the esteemed... Don't throw it away. Dear Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56912	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Petyr, you said well, it was a rhetorical question. However, precisely because I am aware that I did not get it, I also asked that question on the board, but I did not get the opinion of the Agricultural Chamber. What's the opinion of the Agricultural Chamber representing all the 170 grand we have registered family economies? That's the question, I'm saying, because what I've been talking to people about here and today I've been called from Slavonia, they think it's the ruin of livestock production. Therefore, Slavonic producers, especially pigs. Today, the minister said, 22 billion is a product, a agricultural product, 2 and a half billion support, 11% of that support. I would like us to try to deploy these 11% of the total production of Croatian agriculture in this 2011 in one quality way. And yet what is most important, let us maintain the production we need and with which we can and with which we must exist in Europe, but also that our people, our peasants, our producers do not close their production in 2011 because every new product, every new kilogram of wheat, every new kilogram of meat, is an increase in gross national income. So let's not be surprised and think it's something that we do, and we don't know, and it doesn't have any value. It's a new value, and as such a new value, we should appreciate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56913	Thank you. It is next to representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56914	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. I will support this bill, and in my debate, I will try to explain why. Here we have heard today that there are still significant differences in the implementation of agricultural policy measures in the Republic of Croatia in relation to the European Union and in all areas of support. Thus, as regards direct payments, where particular support is expressed and support for the income of intervention measures to regulate the market and support measures for rural development. Although the adjustment process takes place intensively and while strengthening and building administrative capacity for the full takeover of the European Union's acquis. It is still expressed meaning problem related and specifically indicated with these direct payments. Therefore, one of the significant objectives of the reform of the support policy is to reduce negative and strengthen the positive effects of the future integration of the Republic of Croatia. It is also important for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course, for the Ministry of Agriculture to present a complete picture of the association to farmers who are partners in this process. So, with all the benefits and all the risks of membership in the European Union. It is true that the Republic of Croatia will be at the disposal of significantly higher funds to support agriculture and rural development when we become a member of the European Union. That is what the minister also spoke about in the opening part, but, of course, provided we prepare in good time and quality, that is to say, to complete the preparation of the agricultural sector for new and different policies to be applied since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. This, of course, brings different challenges, but it opens up new opportunities and does not apply, meaning that it does not only apply to these direct payments that I was talking about. The main part of the future EU policy in the Republic of Croatia, so there will be rural development policy, and I will put an emphasis on that in my debate. The European Commission package for the Republic of Croatia makes up 483m euros for rural development measures for 2012 and 2013, and 144m euros for market measures and direct payments in agriculture. And I'm not a skeptic like my colleague Cain. It was important to secure this package for starters. A stronger turn is expected from 2011 after the consolidation of the 2010 agricultural budget, in the direction of growth, the share of rural development measures and the increase in funds for the area of difficult management and environment conditions, as well as mountainous and island areas. And that means EU funds, which are still at the disposal of SAPARD and IPARD, amounting to around 125 million, can also be used. So until 2011. And the results of that turn will be as we now prepare. And this particular bill that's a quality framework he's providing. I especially want to look back at the chapter of rural development, which provides a framework for the development and implementation of the strategic development documents that we have heard today and that there are and there are not many of them. So, where rural development measures are defined, both until the entry of the Republic of Croatia and after entering. These measures, meaning these until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, are measures, meaning the IPARD programme for which international agreements are signed, then support for ensuring possible damage to agriculture, support for the conservation of native and protected breeds of domestic animals, support for capital investment, support for income, support for ecologically integrated agricultural production and support for areas with difficult operating conditions. The maximum level of public support for those measures has also been defined and is in line with what the minister said in his opening section, which is that step. It means that not immediately, it is not a sudden change, but a single procedure, means gradual measures to move to the entry of Croatia into the European Union. The measures shall mean rural development for the period following the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and shall cover the use of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, which will only be used for those activities contained in the national strategic rural development plan and rural development programme. It is therefore of particular importance what these documents contain. They will be essentially the basis for withdrawing these very significant funds from the European Rural Development Fund. Whatever the case, what these documents are doing according to the criteria set out in the Council Regulation and the methodology which is, of course, left enough space for us to draw those objectives, and the minister also said in the opening section that our policy objectives of the European Union are quite good, that our harmonised objectives are good. It means that the objectives of the European Union's policy are in line with this and our set goals, and not only for the seven-year period for which these documents are being produced, but I would say for at least two cycles, for two cycles to determine now a vision for the next 14 years, and that on that basis we are going with these strategic documents. I'll remind you that these documents are made of course in partnership with all the factors. That's what the ministry's been doing so far. It's got experience in all this. But I would also like to emphasise the competence of the partners because we see no matter what we have partners in these agreements that some partners are simply not competent and for the reasons of the importance of this strategic document. I will remind once again of the measures, which are otherwise measures which, otherwise defined, are also funded through this European Rural Development Fund. These are improving the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sectors. So, environmental and landscape improvements, quality of life in rural areas and diversification of economic activities. Then strengthening local initiatives in the rural area. Therefore, all those measures and the corresponding maximum level of public support are given in addition to this proposal and contain the European Fund for Rural Development, but also the resources of the state budget. I believe that this bill well defines who does what, means jurisdiction, enforcement, but also administrative inspection and criminal provisions. I think it's good precisely because of the effectiveness, i.e. the achievement of those objectives. Given the relatively good capacity preparation that takes a long time and that we are ready right now to say what we want through the development of these strategic development documents, i.e. that now is the right time to come up with and define a policy for the development of agriculture and rural space in the long term, and I will remind you that we have over 90% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the responsibility for policymaking in this area is particularly important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56915	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56916	Thank you very much. A colleague spoke about a SAPHARD program that ended a story, not exactly famously, and then mentioned the IPARD program. It is about a billion kuna of funds that the European Union places for, and they are particularly important and very important to say positive measures 101 and 103, these are new programmes in agriculture, but are you convinced that our family farms or any of them will have the knowledge and money to finance these projects for new programmes. And the other conditions set for these new programmes are very difficult. So 5 years that he's not a financial loser, and must be, he has measured all financial obligations towards the state. I wonder how many OPGs will be able to participate in the IPARD program in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56917	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56918	I agree that the conditions are difficult, but that we have to adapt we have to and that we have to prepare and that we have had a rather long period of preparation that we could do this is a colleague you will agree the truth. As for the SAPHARD programme he and not quite famously said you had finished, but here I from the Zadar County area can say that for those who took the programme seriously, who had seriously prepared themselves, over 30 million kuna went to three projects in Zadar County. We need to get ready, not wait for someone to prepare us for something. We have to prepare ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56919	Thank you. And as the last individual, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I may be able to conduct this debate a little differently, so don't mind me, don't look at the Rules of Procedure in every article. However.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56921	I'm sorry, let me just tell you every article for you and for everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56922	Well, I'd like it to be true for you, too, 'cause it hasn't been valid until now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56923	When you're in charge of the session, you'll say so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56924	Very soon. Unlike others, this law is a defeat, and I would say a certain amount of agricultural policy that has been conducted in Croatia for 10 years and more. This best illustrates this example of Ms. Petir's representative who proposes an amendment to the government in front of the Croatian Peasant Union. I had not yet known that the Croatian Peasant Union could propose amendments, but it speaks enough about the state within the ruling coalition and says that under one false care of a political option for the village, agriculture in this way wants to collect cheap political points, because it is obviously not agreed. If something had been arranged, so it probably wouldn't have been, and the former president of the Croatian Peasant Union wouldn't have gotten over a thousand acres of land from the same government, and our peasants are fighting for a maximum of 50 hectares, buying new combines, you can see that if you go down the road to Slavonia and get incentives. And by the way, he was entangled in the agricultural chamber as one big expert chamber. It's an empty story. This law speaks of the fact that Croatian agriculture was a hostage of politics conducted by HSS, and even at that time by the large coalition from 2000 to 2003, the same minister left, now only Mr. Cobankovic was brought in, because Mr. Pankretić, regardless of what was run by the Ministry of Rural Development, was really one big thing about agriculture never to show. This is the defeat of the Croatian negotiating team in the European Union, because with this Support Act we are also entering the European Union on our feet. It may be difficult to explain to our peasants in Slavonia, especially to the French who are on the streets of Paris who drive tractors, etc. And here, first of all, in the Parliament, people who have never even buried a locust in the ground, except for cutting the grass. It best illustrates the state of Croatian agriculture and how long this policy has led, perhaps these two bananas. Although the captain with a little vitre said that we are long ago in bananas, there are more bananas on the market and I wouldn't be surprised and I'm not surprised that we import bananas, in Croatia we can't produce bananas, but we can make a banana state. But these two bananas come two kunas and 70 limes and are normally imported. What hurts the most is that we reduce incentives in dairy and livestock production, and at the same time, here you can do it across the street in this privatised company you'll find it hard to find homemade yogurt with these same bananas, look at the wonders I haven't even seen what I'm taking, and the sweet cream, which is somewhere around 9 kuna. Also, tomato, which came from Macedonia, nectarines from Egypt, potatoes from Egypt, peppers from Morocco. I expected it, it says, go there and look at the declaration, don't interrupt me. The figs I expected to be from our Dalmatia, I gave the representative Grubisic a little taste, I didn't want to encourage imports, he said they're not good, I don't eat them. I love Croatian. But the question is this all comes up around 40 kunas here, as much as our citizen can love Croatian if these cheap junk products are cheaper, much cheaper than ours in the trade chains. And nothing would surprise me, but I hope that the same ministry knows how to look at both import and export tables. So I say bananas, okay, we import bananas, we import some... Tea, I saw it in some soap opera, and '98. In the year that import was zero kuna, now it's somewhere around 19,000 kuna. [[You don't understand.]] But the devastating fact is that we're importing this same potato, fresh or chilled for $14 million in American dollars. And this potato, so when those producers of ours produce it, and then somewhere we look at those fruits of the country when they dive into the blacks of Slavonic or Međimurska or Dalmatian, is this, a character as well as the famous character potatoes, but I haven't seen at least that big of a crop, 0,60 kuna. And somewhere for a kilo of potatoes, you're looking for a kuna, etc. Tomatoes, let's remember all those plantations, etc., which will most likely be closed with this system of support and incentives. But in the end, let's remember the same farms that were given capital, no one put me out, I appreciate those capital support for raising. On the side of the fact that people didn't have solved property-legal relations, etc., they won't be able to get into this incentive system anyway. 90% of the farms in Croatia do not have a complete building permit, and this should be openly said even to those in the Croatian Peasants' Union, you will not have the right to achieve incentives if this is not resolved very quickly. However, introducing even live fish and milk and cream that I have shown in the amount of 31 million or 32 million dollars, this is the 2008 data, though, if we are not able to solve the rapids very quickly, it is truly devastating. And on the side now that we're importing sweet creams, someone likes maybe German, doesn't like Croatian, but we do import wheat, corn, barley, oil tail. We import all agricultural products that can be produced here in Croatia and from which Croatian farmers and Croatian farms can live. Today, family economies in Croatia are barely making ends meet. That's why they're on the streets, that's why they're on tractors. Not because they like to be on the street, not because they are not working, but because it simply costs them more production than what they can get for their product and because there is no regulated market in Croatia and because they cannot sell their product. Take the data from this statistics, I couldn't bring carphiol now, cabbage, kale, frozen from Metkovic is frozen veal, pork, etc., because simply everything we import would not care about in this assembly just with this example. I brought 2 bananas because someone still doesn't believe that Croatia is in bananas, that there's no crust left from that Sanader banana, and that every day more and more of this and more of that kind of policy, especially with blackmail policy, and that's where I'm defending the little ministry, because if you agree to what you're doing now, then it's simply an open way to anarchy. But you have to make it clear and loud to every family economy – if you don't solve building permits there are no structural or... funds, and there's no money or incentive. Also, I come from Slavonia, so I know and I've been working on the ground and I know what the citizens of agriculture want to say about it. Through me in this Croatian Parliament, and also on those roads and on the streets because they are free to come to Zagreb, every time these great leaders of peasants 2 or 3 will be resolved their private interest or enter the Agricultural Chamber or receive 1,000 acres of land and quiet Bosnia. Here, I thank you. If anyone wants to try this, they can try it. I won't wear it. But indeed this quality of these products, other than these bananas, we learned bananas, is not satisfactory for Croatian youth neither for children nor for pensioners, nor even for us constituencies who obviously have the money to buy this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56925	Thank you. I can try, but out later. We have 3 corrections of incorrect allegations, the first is the distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56926	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Vinkovic argued that the content of the amendment could not be proposed by the Croatian Peasant Union. Mr. Vinkovic, this country is a country of democracy. Any citizen in this country can speak to the Ministry, to me as representatives, and propose the contents of the amendments they have done, of course because they know that I am their representative. So they will not turn to you when they hear what debates you have here, as you scold them and call them. Because I am Mr. Winkovic, unlike you, telling you what I live. I live in a Croatian village unlike you. And secondly, I must tell you, you pointed out that in the term of 2000-2003, the minister of the HSS did nothing. ... Yes, it's a correction, because that's not true. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The minister did quite a lot. That's when the first time a register was brought in and order began to be introduced into agriculture, and let's remember who obstructed it and who the HSS was in the coalition with, and from which lines was your deputy minister? From Agrokor. Thank you. Your Honor, you're raising a plate of violations of the Rules of Procedure. You'll have to explain what because the correction of the incorrect assumption was correct. Please, don't report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because the correction of the incorrect assumption was correct and I don't think there's any reason to sharpen this debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56928	I'm saying this wasn't a correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56929	You can't claim it, it's the correction of the quote was correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56930	Did I mention Agrokor maybe? Kaufland, Mercator?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56931	Please! Please, the correction of the incorrect quote was correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56932	Article 206 has been injured where it is said that a correction of the incorrect allegations can be obtained. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure, and where I live, I don't care. Where Mrs. Petir lives herself, whether in the country or in the city. And I think most of the time...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56933	Please, Your Honor, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Don't ever do that again. We don't have to fight here right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56934	Well, then, you accept blackmail.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56935	We have a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56936	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a number of incorrect allegations I'm going to say here's only one, and that's what Mr. Vinkovic said about the current coalition leading agriculture to ruin. If he turns back a little bit and sees how much he's been separated for agriculture for years then he'll see that more and more has been separated year after year. Unfortunately, it was at least separated when they were in power along with the HSS. When the HSS had to wrestly fight for every kuna where they were against. And looking at last year, where more than 4 billion are allocated to agriculture may never be so separated. Mr. Vinkovic's capital investment was 25%, raised to 40%. Look at that. Look at the size of the corn incentive, 800 kuna, so it came to 2250. And these days we hear from the party leader who's in the "Kukuriku coalition" says it will be if they come to power heavy cuts. My peasants watch out if they come to power there will be no more incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56937	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56938	Now I would ask for your protection if you could interpret the Rules of Procedure for me. Is this invitation to the peasants to be looked after is the correction of an incorrect quote or something? I would ask you to give a warning to the representative since he scares Croatian peasants, that he scares the producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56939	Mr. Representative, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56940	If they knew very well...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56941	Your Honor, this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I give you a warning, and that you do not make a mockery of the Rules of Procedure which we have brought. Have a seat. Thank you very much, we have, you can't speak any further, don't do that. You don't have to, Your Honor, I'm taking away your words on this wheel and I'm asking you no longer to report on this wheel. We have another correction to the incorrect allegations, and that's the distinguished representative, Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56942	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will correct the incorrect allegations of fellow MPs who claimed that this was a defeat and a failure of agricultural policy in Croatia and a negotiating team which is simply not true, because we thank God in the negotiations came to an end. This law that we're making right now is exactly what we're doing. And I'd recommend something to Mr. Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56943	You can't recommend respected MPs, but you can correct an incorrect quote. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You know what to do. We have a final review of Secretary of State of Honor Stephen Mikolčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56944	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. This is a very important and important law for Croatian agriculture and Croatian farmers. He in some ways provides frameworks and financial frameworks for the future of Croatia's agriculture. You are absolutely in the debate here, in a way, most of you estimated that with this law and Croatia's entry into the European Union Croatian agriculture and agricultural producers get a chance. I also appreciate what you've said to your concern whether we're going to take that chance and take the chance. I agree with certain findings, perhaps this law is not clear enough for our agricultural producers or at least in that large part of them. However, behind this Law go the implementing rules that will absolutely be more direct, more direct, and I think of all those who are more comprehensible. I also appreciate that part of the debate that was focused on the plan and rural development programme that absolutely defines tomorrow the development of Croatian agriculture, the development of rural space and everything that can be financed from the Rural Development Fund. We will absolutely respect what you have said, we will respect the way in which we will appoint representatives of the Croatian Parliament and representatives of all the partner groups concerned in some way in the commissions responsible for making these regulations. And finally, I thank you for all your contributions in terms of the discussions that you have held today, on suggestions and remarks, mainly as regards the amendments that we will definitely consider and, if possible, improve the Law. And I can say right now that we're going to adopt most of your amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56945	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when we get the necessary conditions for that point.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56946	The final proposal of the State Support Act on Agriculture and Rural Development was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 588. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment has been submitted to you on benches. I would like the representative of the Proposer Stephen Mikulčić, Secretary of State to show about the amendments. First, the Legislative Committee on Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56947	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56948	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Second, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, as referred to in Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56949	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56950	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Third, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, as referred to in Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56951	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56952	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Fourth, Legislative Committee, Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56953	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56954	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Fifth, Agent Dr. Dragutin Bodakoša, Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56955	The government does not accept the amendment for reasons, the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory is the only institution in the Republic of Croatia that is responsible for providing free advisory services to farmers, but in law it has given possibility and veterinary organisations with public authority to provide counselling services in the field of their jurisdiction, so human and animal health and animal welfare. The Implementing Regulation will regulate the participation of veterinary organisations, which will certainly have its place in helping farmers with multiple compliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56956	Thank you. Mr. Bodakosh's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56957	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here you see this is an amendment that would determine one profession, people who know that job, who do that job, and who are involved in all of this activity. However, a certain bagatelisation of the ministry, a whole profession, because this is not my amendment, this is an amendment to the entire profession, the more the profession was with Minister Cobankovic, the President of the Veterinary Chamber and the Secretary of State, where it was agreed that this position was bound to be within the law. Unfortunately, however, 605 authorised veterinarians and 140 authorised veterinary organisations are thus placed in second order, so those who are not similar, or capable of doing so, and they are unfortunately the most capable, are the most capable because human health protection is in their hands... and all those other activities. [[You don't understand.]] Of the 17 measures being implemented, 14 are related to the veterinary service, and what is said about the advisory service, that it does so, that it works for free, we know how often people have come to this advisory service, how capable they are, and how much they can do. Finally, there is only one veterinarian in that advisory service with numbers and letters. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56958	Thank you for this amendment, Mr. Representative. Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 6 Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, as referred to in Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56959	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56960	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Seven. The Committee on Agriculture Fisheries and Rural Development, also referred to in Article 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56961	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56962	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 8. also the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development on Article 22. The government accepts the amendment. It becomes an integral part of the bill. 9th Representative Zlatko Koračević in Article 22(3).
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56964	The government accepts the amendment. A similar amendment was made by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, which was also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56965	Thank you, this amendment also becomes an integral part of the bill. Ten. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, as referred to in Article 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56966	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56967	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 11. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56968	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56969	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 12. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56970	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In principle, the amendment was accepted, however, by the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, a new numbering of articles from 62 to the end, with the numbering of references to articles in the text becoming correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56971	The board's pulling? The board has withdrawn this amendment. 13. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56972	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56973	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 14. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56974	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56975	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on state support for agriculture and rural development. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This Final Bill proposal was adopted by a majority of 109 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 2 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56976	Let's move on with the agenda, point 14. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.br 592 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by HNS HSU Representatives' Club. Does a representative of the government want to further explain the law? Yeah. Dear Radovan Fuchs Minister of Education and Sports Science. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. You have before you a proposal to amend the Law on Education and what I want to say immediately at the beginning before the debate takes place. It's not any school termination based on these bill proposals. Schools with less than 150 students can gradually change their status. So there will be no more home school, it will eventually become district schools with respect to certain specificities such as island schools or schools in mountainous and mountainous areas. The coefficient of performance of this measure is so-called 3. which means that this transition of parent schools to regional schools, and again I stress no school is abolished, it only changes its status, should be implemented by 2017. The same story with the standards that will later appear and this is the square of space that is in the cleaning standard for primary and secondary schools that is changing to higher and will be 800 and 700, as opposed to where it was 600 and 400, respectively, was in complete dissent with high school normatives and sciences where it is 900. It is therefore quite difficult to justify that it is more important to clean the space of a primary school than, say, 300 or 400 students, or to say, the space of the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Zagreb. Here, norms are aligned across the entire vertical of education and the equivalent coefficient of performance of this measure is 3, which means that the gradual number will be reduced by 2017. No one gets automatically, at the same time fired just because he may be missing a certain square of space in his norm. All other reasons per article will be given by State Secretary Željir Janjic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56978	Thank you. And I suggest that he then immediately take the word of Honored Želimir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56979	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. In the opening section, Mr. Minister said the most important part, which refers not only to the amendments to the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school but also to the changes to the state pedagogical standards that we will discuss later. And since it's somehow connected, it's not bad that at the very beginning of the motionary's address, it's said. Thus, the amendments to the law in Article 1 clearly states that the concepts of parent school and district school are being introduced, which we have not had in our regulations so far, although in reality it exists. Furthermore, in these amendments, we also talk about supporting those students who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, returning from abroad, continuing their education in the Republic of Croatia, that schools will support them if they are insufficiently familiar with Croatian language to enable them to do so within a year. But the addition is that it also applies to other students in our schools who do not know or are insufficiently familiar with Croatian. You know what we had a few years ago, for example, in Međimurje. Furthermore, when it comes to pedagogical measures, a new pedagogical measure that you adopted in 2008 when the Law on Education and Education was adopted in primary and secondary schools is a matter of educational and educational treatment of an extended professional procedure. The pedagogical measure was intended to be pronounced prior to the exclusion notice and after two years of implementation in our schools a unanimous evaluation of the classrooms and directors is that it would be more effective if the order were replaced and it would be pronounced after the exclusion notice and before the exclusion notice. These are border cases where students really need help. It is most easy to exclude from school, but we do not want it to be done, neither teachers nor directors want it, and for these reasons we position this measure in a place where it is estimated to be more efficient and will, of course, be given by the teaching board, not by the school director. Furthermore, we propose an amendment in order to ensure uniform treatment in two systems, in the system of secondary education and in the system of primary education. In the system of secondary education we have a regulation on norms as a sublegal act that brings a minister of science, education and sports and for many years it works well. Of course that rule changes in agreement with the social partners. It's never happened before that the unions have put reserves on the amendments to the norm regulations in the high school system all these seven years ago, so each time it's agreed with them even though it's been changed. In primary school, however, this is not the case. The norm rule is within the collective contract. If anything were to change, perhaps even social partners would ask for it, it would be impossible until the collective agreement is changed because he is shackled by the norm rule. For these reasons, we propose to comply with secondary education and to have two regulations as sublegal acts brought by the minister, which we will eventually change in accordance with our social partners. Furthermore, when you adopted the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary school in 2008 we dropped one category of teachers in the classroom who finished high school for 4 years, which has the character of a professional study where 240 ECTS is acquired and are not included to be able to teach in schools. We are now correcting that failure, so they are entering the system, and it is now very important to do so because competitions for new teachers will be announced this summer. If we didn't make this change, let's say we did it in September, then they'd just be late and probably wait another year for their chance to meet in one of the chambers. In this regard, the amendment is also an amendment to Article 7 where it is said that those persons who will appear in the system of education and education in our school institutions when they acquire the conditions and will work at school will be able to compete, for example, for the principal of the school institution. In Article 6, we are talking about retirement. I will remind you that until now, a general regulation has been in force that says that at the age of 65 and at least 15 years of retirement is going into retirement unless otherwise agreed with the employer. That's what the Labour Act says. It opened up space to extend work in a school facility. We wouldn't mind doing this with deficiting professions, so for example, it applies to an English teacher or to another foreign language, a math teacher that we don't have enough or a professional teacher. However, according to our data we have in the good part of the school, this working relationship has been extended rarely to those staff who have worked on cleaning, janitors and others who are not correct to all those who are at the Employment Service and who are waiting for their chance the moment someone retires. For these reasons, we are going here with solutions that say that if these conditions are met they should retire, extremely teachers who have their full pedagogical justification when they meet the conditions for retirement, so they will retire at the end of the school year when they have completed their retirement conditions. This means that if a class teacher continues to qualify on May 5th, he will retire on August 31st of that year. 'Cause it wouldn't be justified for kids who, say, teach first school girls all year long and take them away and say, "Here we are now at the end of the year, we're gonna take you to retirement, "and we're gonna bring someone else and let the kids get used to it again." For these reasons, this exception was introduced. Articles 8 to 12 speak about the status of directors and here we may be a little better adjusting their status. You know that we have allowed the term of office to take five years to return to their jobs after the end of their term, but we want to do it a little bit more rationally now. In fact, there have been examples so far that someone who has completed, say, 63 years of life or 64 has completed his term of office has not competed again. It was declared a technological surplus in school, not offered him any new job. He's earned a right to severance. So, it was open space that could really be done and then that severance was 500, 600,000 kuna. There is no need for someone to be in a different status in the system of education and education than they really need to be provided with that same status. This solution that we've had so far is irrational, and this time that we're in requires that we rationalize certain things, and that's what we're going to do with this. Furthermore, we have left time for all school institutions to comply with their statutes within 90 days. There won't be much harmonisation, it won't be much work, but we count on the moment the law comes into force there, so in October the month concludes with October that there will be enough time to amend their statutes, to send to their founders to give consent to the statutes and to have these new solutions incorporated. And in the end, there's something else I want to say. Given that there have been certain questions and from you respected MPs, it is the question of the legal provision we have not touched, which says it is the deadline for reelection in 1.1.2012. This applies to directors and those with higher expertise, etc. So we're definitely going to go on these changes, we're going to move that deadline anyway. However, in some subsequent changes, according to your discussions today, it will be our orientation, with which we will go in the next changes, whether it will be the end of this calendar year or the beginning of the next more, but in any case before that deadline. So that all those who have a higher level of expertise have absolutely no reason for any fears or questions about what will happen. Dear Vice President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56980	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56981	Mr. Vice President, except our minister has a bit of a mix-up on the agenda he's been discussing here, he's also given a false allegation. In fact, he said that in terms of standards, standards will now finally be done uniformly throughout the vertical, which is not true because in that part, we are proposed to change the teaching standard only of secondary education and education, and not of primary school education, so we will still have the difference of 600 squares in primary and 800 squares in high school. And Mr. Secretary of State Janjic clearly hoped to have made two failures when he spoke about new conditions for employment, told teachers of the teaching in question. This is not true talking about class teachers, or at one point he was talking about class teachers. That place at school doesn't exist. They're all class teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56982	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56983	Here I thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the Parliament. Before us are the changes, I would say the functional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools, which achieves the improvement of certain solutions, and it seems to me that the practice has just shown that these changes should be made. We have already heard in the debate, and today it is very current that this network of schools is regulated by Article 1 of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements, i.e. Article 5(1) of the Law, where these amendments are proposed to introduce, by the state pedagogical standard, the size of the parent district schools. I think there's been an unnecessary debate in this House of Highs about the abolition of some of the so-called so-called. small schools are about 150 such schools. We must clearly tell the Croatian public that it is not true, and the experience and practice of this government I must tell you what it is and for one child you remember we opened the school at Premuda when we used that practical solution to go to the teacher, and there are those solutions when such a student comes to a place then the accommodation is paid, etc. So let's not scare the Croatian public, but let's say that Croatia will organise a school for every child. That's a fact. But we do know that the organisation teaches and lives in one school and here determines a number so that these 150 schools or 143 that come as a standard where there could be doubtful there are some other laws that regulate from the particular interest of mountain-mounted areas, island schools, so that this number is reduced and we can be totally calm, and the fact is that local self-government and school founders have their share in these decisions because the school network is based on a framework programme, but it brings out a self-government and functional way of organising teaching and living in that space depends on the founders, so it seems to me that this problem is much smaller. And we need to say another quite open thing, that for 40 or 50 children it is difficult to keep one school organized with the principal, his professional service, and it can be functionally much better organised. So we can be calm. This is one problem that will be solved in the next five, six years but the state in collaboration with the founders. In Article 2 of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary education is regulated, it is prescribed that schools are required to provide special assistance to children of Croatian nationals returning from abroad and starting education in the Republic of Croatia, and they do not know or are insufficiently familiar with Croatian language. These amendments amend that provision in such a way as to prescribe how special school assistance is required to provide children of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who return from abroad and begin education as well as other children who have the right to education in the Republic of Croatia, and who do not know or are insufficiently familiar with Croatian. With this updated provision, the Explicate Law obliges schools and their founders to enable their children in the Republic of Croatia who do not know or are insufficiently familiar with Croatian language to provide the necessary support. I think it's a very good solution and that this way schools have a place to organize such a class. In Article 3 of this proposal, amending and supplementing the law which is actually referred to in Article 84 of the Law, it is proposed to amend the order of expression of pedagogical measures in high school institutions and that is also one practical practice has shown a favourable or way to organise it. We fully support this, and it is consistent with the experience we have in schools as well. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on primary and secondary education, the usual question of norms regulated by collective agreements, and right here it is changed and placed in the domain of the minister that, in accordance with the amount of direct educational work contracted with the collective contract, the norm is assigned to the teacher. So that's one solution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on primary and secondary schooling is specified by an expression which determines who can do the job of a teacher. That's what's crucial in classroom school, classroom teacher in elementary school and teacher in high school. Namely, the new formulation clearly and unequivocally states that these tasks can be carried out by persons who have completed a four-year professional study that has acquired 240 ECTS points, i.e. high professional training according to earlier regulations, is also complemented by a provision by which they can also be appointed principals of school institutions. This is one key provision, because this definitely established the university verticals in education in Croatia and there are certain conditions and in some ways everyone who has a higher school comes to another situation, and this means that on the other hand we can say that university verticals include also doctoral studies, postgraduate studies in education. And one more thing we have to say is that education is included in the interdisciplinary field of science, so that, in accordance with European culture and culture, Croatia has designed a complete system for advancement, for education and for the treatment of education. I find this useful, but it opens up another question that does not end with this law, and that is also the question of those directors who have a higher level of expertise. I'll talk about it a little bit later, and there's a secretary of state who's already referred, and I think that needs to be solved. But before that, I would like to point out some of the solutions set out in this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental and Secondary Education, which refers to Article 6, in fact, Articles 112 and 3 of the Law. It is proposed to supplement the provisions on the termination of the work contract, which is prescribed for both school workers, the institution of the labour contract ceases in accordance with the general rules on work, and that is very explicit. So in 60, when a worker is 65 years old and has 15 years of retirement, and when it comes to a school institution worker referred to in Article 100. The labour contract law ends over the course of the school year, which ends in 65 years of life, and 15 years of retirement, which means it can be extended several months to complete the job of that teacher, teacher or teacher at school. Such a solution has been before, as I recall, and I think it is a good solution and that it has little and little use of the possibility that it can be guessed, or whether it is necessary for a particular person when such status could be extended on the basis of a solution so far. And I especially want to refer to the articles of this law from 8 to 12. Why? Because they redefine or improve, or talk about school principals, institutions, and in particular Article 9 where Article 130a, 130.b and c are added, where the position of school directors is even better defined, and as the secretary of state has said, there are some possibilities of abuse or good organisation around some material breakthroughs that could have been achieved. And here I want to say something quite openly on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, but I see that the Secretary of State Mr. Janjic mentioned it and on the board was such a debate, which is the position of the director with higher professional training, which in the Republic of Croatia today has 353, so 36% of the principal of primary schools has higher professional training and they are elected on their duties right now in 2009 and it will last until 2014. And what was said in the debate was that the amendment would include certain solutions to extend their right to be able to address this situation that is not easy to resolve, and in the debate, it was said that it was an honorable person who acted on his duty, but now because of legal solutions, they could come into a very unpleasant situation, so that at the end of their working life they would experience, if I could say the unpleasant experience, and perhaps some rights to be denied. So we hold to the word of the minister and his associates that in the following documents, they will address the issue of this group which is in our schools and which is concerned about its situation, and on the other hand, it is a clear message that they must complete high education and thus Croatia ends its structure in a university vertical that is useful for the whole system. Finally, with this note that the Croatian Democratic Community supports such a solution that is likely to be reached by the end of the year, we support these amendments and additions to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools and we will vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56984	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56985	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me start off with a little... In fact, the passing of this law. [[You don't understand.]] We passed the law on 15 July 2008, it entered into force on 2 August 2008. So two years ago. Then a year ago, on July 17th, we changed it. You have abolished free textbooks then, you have abolished transportation for high school students, then you have suspended the co-financing of food and accommodation in the dormitory. And now again on July 14th, which is almost two years right after the law is passed, we are going to change the law. Each of these laws was passed in an urgent procedure, each of these laws was passed and loud in the last day of the session, and as such it would not be disputed that because of such a dynamic debate on the law, such actually passing laws at the last minute, we had quite quickly obtained laws, i.e. the law that in many parts of it were inaccurate, insufficiently devised, and according to what the profession and professional doubts say. For this reason, we think that this law needs a major reconstruction and a significant change, because indeed the two-year application has highlighted the great shortcomings of this law. I don't know if you know your colleagues and colleagues that every school in the country, but everyone breaks this law. He's breaking because he doesn't bring in a school girl, and he doesn't bring in a school girl, because the ministry didn't necessarily bring in the National Girlcullum. It's one of the big problems that needs to be changed. The problem of entry areas, we're talking about the development of school girls, we're talking about the development of specificity, and by law we've tied that actually local environments have to set up registration areas exclusively geographically, so we're actually making it impossible for parents to enroll children in schools by quality, by girlcullum, rather than exclusively in the enrolment area. That's something to change. A provision on the management of schools where you voted that most of the school boards have policies leading to terrible problems on the ground. Various locals play with schools and practice their strength there. In this, of course, care for children, care for the well-being of schools very often the last hole in the play. Because these important things in these amendments of the law don't have us we can't even vote for these changes. But that's not the only reason. What the law says is also why we cannot vote on this law. You've decided to discuss this law in an emergency procedure. It is said that this must be voted so because of the implementation of the government's economic recovery programme. What are the measures in the government's economic recovery programme that is changing this law? One measure says a reduction in the number of non-school staff, which is with this law by a colleague and a colleague, but has nothing to do with it. And secondly, streamlining the network of schools according to projected demographic movements. That might have little to do with these amendments to the laws, colleagues and colleagues, if we had a network of schools, but we don't have a network of schools. According to the provisions of the law we passed, i.e. you voted 2 years ago, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was required to bring a network of schools in accordance with Article 161 at the latest this year. She didn't bring it. And if we're talking about rationalization, otherwise I think rationalization is pretty devastating to talk about in education only in terms of rationalization, then it should be done smartly in the interests of education. We've talked here a few times that we need to talk about a network of programs, not a network of schools. And that would be a true rationalization that wouldn't then tolerate quality. Therefore, of these 15 articles of Law 2 refers to the government's economic recovery programme, and this remains one part that is seen in the application that is not valid and is changed. But I repeat, there are a lot of bigger problems that we've decided to not change now. What we're interested in from the SDP club, and that would like to hear a direct answer, how planned are the financial savings in cash under this law? How many thousand kunas will be saved by applying this law? Let's see if it actually makes any sense to cause this kind of panic and trouble in the field because people in the field are really panicking and what amount of money we're actually doing it for? 2 amendments are important in this bill. Article 1 states that pedagogicals will determine the size of parent and regional schools. We at the SDP club think that the current formulation in the article of the law allowed it to be determined by pedagogical standards, but if you want it to write, let it write about it we will talk about something more about changing pedagogical standards. The second amendment is deleted from the provision that the minister of the weekly norms of teachers and professional associates in the primary school prescribes in accordance with the amount of direct educational work contracted with a collective contract, that is to say that he will do so in cooperation with the social partners, but independent of the collective contract. In particular, I have already said that if we want to have a story about rational that we need to talk about a network of programs. It is expected that this change will lead to the abolition of the status of some smaller schools as parent schools and their accession as district schools to another parent school. This in practice really means maybe one director less, maybe one school board less, maybe one secretary or an accountant less, but I'm asking you to think about it one more time. A large number of these, according to our estimates of 100 schools that would abolish the status of these changes, or later by changing the standards that we create here, are actually island schools, schools in areas of special state care, schools in mountainous mountainous areas, music schools, minority schools, and are really asking how many schools will I not say abolishing, but that change of status? According to those drafts of the National Framework Girlculum, which as a document does not exist at all, so we have to talk about the National Girlculum, and in this whole curricula theory, it is said that actually schools need to build their identities and their specialities related to the local community, with some tradition of their own. I think we're violating some of these principles. Example of school in Postiram on the island of Brac. The school "Vladimir Nazora" in the hometown of Vladimir Nazor, which has its own great tradition, which organises some important things by applying the provisions of this law, will stop being a school of "Vladimir Nazora" and will become only a school of elementary school "Supetar". It's something you can't allow. As regards the regulation of basic school norms, it is therefore proposed that a solution that is actually based on colleagues and colleagues, especially you who are not in education on the non-existent fact that we have actually adopted amendments to the Labour Act and that collective agreements no longer apply, or that extended application of the legal rules relating to collective agreements is no longer applicable. However, colleagues and colleagues, as you know, we have not changed the Labour Act and extended application of collective agreements rights is still valid. I think we need to take care of that when we talk and vote on this law as well. Besides these two important things, the law offers five more, so to speak, five groups of changes. They've already been spoken of here. I wouldn't particularly explain it. I must say, we agree with this section regarding the conditions for retirement. It is indeed pedagogically justified that people who work at school if they are full of years of life are retired over the course of the school year. This part about the conditions for class teachers also, but that's what I want to say one other thing. By amending another law, that is, by adopting the Law on Calls, we have turned all class teachers who completed a 4-year study and obtained a VSS in prescribing diplomas to Bologna degrees into first-graders. It's not right and it's just not right. For years, class teachers teach highly educated people, I repeat, write petitions, beg, godfathers us, the public, the ministry to change that law. The ministry is making promises that this law will change and we have had an initiative through the Education Committee, but nothing has happened yet, and as good as it is that we have introduced them here because they exist, I think they would do a lot better if we actually recognized their calling, or their expertise that they really deserve. And perhaps, at the very end, respected colleagues and colleagues, as I said at the beginning, because of what the Law does not say and should be written in the amendments to the Law after two years of its implementation, but because of what the Law says, we will not support these amendments to the Law, especially because we estimate that what is proposed will not significantly improve the work of school, quality of education and education in our schools. And we think it's almost catastrophic that in a country that is convulsing in economic problems, which is in crisis, somehow here always at the beginning of the application of measures and first things we decide to cut and change are changes in education. This happened last year with the removal of textbooks, co-financing of accommodation in dormitories, and transportation. The terrible cutting of money and resources for science, for scientific projects, magazines, is now continuing here with the abolition of parent school status. For years we've been talking about abolishing municipalities that don't have their own income to pay the chief's fee, we're not doing anything about it. And in fact, we're going to break our forces over our backs a dozen or a few dozen small parent schools. It's really not right, but what's worse in the whole situation is the children who suffer their future, and the country that wants to get out of the crisis, which wants to go forward, can only do it one way if there are no great natural resources, and Croatia has no only people, it is investment in education, investment in people, and especially increased investment in education and science in times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56986	We first have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56987	I'm correcting Mr. Vice President, my colleague Lugaric has made several incorrect allegations. I'll make two right, first of all, that these amendments and the additions of the law make children suffer. My colleagues, Lugarić, do not suffer from these amendments and additions to the Law, and I will answer you more widely in the debate. And your insistence and incorrect indication that the parliamentary majority passed this Act, we did not abolish, we passed the Law, colleagues of the Croatian Parliament adopted these amendments and amendments to the Law and I hope that the Social Democratic Party is still part of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56988	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect quote is the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Lugaric said the following, I quote, "By abolishing parent schools, children and education suffer," which is not true. Removing parent school does not affect any quality of education, especially not in any of the rights of children. The team only changes the legal status of schools, which means that the school, which we could read today in the newspaper, which has 24 students, imagine having a director, an accountant, a secretary of directors and a school secretary, will only eventually change the administration. So, the number of administrative staff. And in class, the very quality of schoolwork will certainly not get in the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56990	And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to correct the wrong quote of a representative who says that it won't improve the work of schools in an important way, just the opposite, Mrs. Lugaric. Because what I have seen as an exceptional value of this Law has changed the order of pronunciation of pedagogical measures in high school institutions. In any event, the conditions for earlier amendments and additions to the Law and training of expert teams in the order itself will ultimately achieve better results than we could expect so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56992	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter esteemed Želimir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56993	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can't be without saying, and I'm sorry to say that, at the beginning of my speech on behalf of the SDP Club, the respected representative Lugaric began, unfortunately, on purpose. That's what I'm saying because I know she's familiar with that fact and that it couldn't have been a small one, but she literally said I'm going to quote, "You've abolished the food and accommodation fees in the dorms." That's not true. So, I quote, look at the phonogram, you've abolished accommodation and nutrition in the dormitories, that's not true, because it was 100% support for those students, and then it's reduced by 50%. This means from the total cost of respected MPs of 1260 kuna 630 kuna paid by the state and the rest paid by the user. So, I want to start by saying that this qualification doesn't stand, and I'm sure you know it well, and I don't know why you had to say it just like this, which doesn't suit the truth. Next, let's put aside what's supposed to change everything. Of course, in my address, I made it clear that we would go with the next changes, and I also said why, so make suggestions what else is needed. So let's not run away from it. However, allow me, respected Lugaric MPs are equally well-known that yesterday was the National Assembly Committee, that we had a document of the National Framework Curricula, and it is likely to know that today at 10 o'clock a session of the Council for the National Framework Curriculum will begin at which it will definitely be completed and after that it can also be signed by the Minister, just so that it is known. Furthermore, there is a problem with enrolment in primary schools. So now you see, according to this Law, the registration area of course determines which school the child will be enrolled in, but there is a possibility of enrolling in another school that does not belong, but then there will be no payment for transportation to school. There's still such a possibility, so I don't see that there's any need to get into it and sort of define it differently. Or if you want to talk about the reasons why it's all changed, I made it very clear that one part of the change refers to measures from economic recovery, and the other part refers to the beginning of the next school year. And I said why, if we want the 4-year-old 240... that I can get into school and get right to my job, then we have to do it now, otherwise the train goes by. So these are the changes that just have to go. Furthermore, when we talk about the network of schools I will only remind that the founders of the local community are therefore obliged to propose, and then we propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We didn't get all of them. How can we make them do it in that time frame because this law is not finalized, and it can't, and how many times we've hurried. So if you want to talk about pedagogical standards, I'll mention it that didn't deliver it all. You're wondering what savings will be, I'll say significant. For example, only two principals don't get severance savings is a million kunas, only two. And equally when we talk about some small schools that can change status I'll also remind you let's just talk about 5 schools it's a million kuna salary. So we can easily get to that bill, of course, if we want to. I'm not going to talk about how much, these aren't savings, but this way, when it's all done, then we'll let those who may be sitting at the employment office for a few years now get their first job and start earning money when they retire and please don't lose sight of it. So, chances for young people anyway. And finally, a border collective contract, so please don't. If the rule as it is currently in the border collective contract is signed in the same hair, then we don't question anything. Do not question this with the Labour Act, any amendments, etc. This is completely clean and do not let it be interpreted differently because it must not be interpreted differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56994	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56995	The secretary of state said he was just meeting the Council for the National Framework Curriculum and that the job would be completed. That's not an exact quote. That's not true. The job will not be completed, because National Whatever you want to call it, Framework Curriculum is a legal obligation whose constituents are prescribed by Law 26. In what you now have as a National Framework Curricula, you don't have all the elements prescribed by the law and you don't actually have the key elements on which schools need to make school curriculas. So this job isn't nearly done, but you just took a step further towards what should be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56996	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. It is the turn of the HSS club, distinguished representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56997	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Education as the fundamental capital of modern society has become a key factor and economic development. Aware of these facts in our country has been trying for many years to improve the system of education, and the demands of modern differentiated society have been postulated by changes in all kinds of education. Since not a single path is entirely simple, the transfer of theoretical guidelines to practice and problems related to the Law on Education requires a thorough approach and review of certain provisions. The adoption of this law is foreseen by the Plan for the Implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme and its adoption is the result of the overall situation in the Republic of Croatia. In certain segments, indifference and irrationality has been observed, especially in light of the current situation, and the changes and additions in question are imposed as a logical solution. Who carried out the analysis found that there are elementary schools with very few students, which makes schooling in such schools very expensive, given the fact that each home school has its own principal, accountant and other non-teaching staff. Therefore, as a reasonable solution, the need to establish a minimum number of departments and pupils for the size of the parent but also of the regional school is imposed. Article 2 amends Article 43(1) of the existing law, which prescribes the obligation of schools to help children who do not know or are insufficiently familiar with Croatian. So far, schools have been mandatory to children of Croatian citizens, and with this addition they have the same obligation to other children who have acquired the right to education in the Republic of Croatia as they do. The children of asylum seekers. The other day we had the same new provisions of the Asylum Act, so we could see it there. We also welcome the amendment in Article 6(3), which stipulates that the work contract ends over the course of the school year in which teachers turned 65 years of life and 15 years of training. In this way, educational and educational workers are given the opportunity to finish their school year with a generation of children they taught, and a new school year will continue with a new teacher. In addition, the school can also plan to fill the empty teacher’s place in time, which is good for students, schools, and teachers who may be looking for a job. In addition to the above, I would like to make one remark concerning this Article 6. In fact, we believe that behind the words "almost 65 years of life" should be written "minimumly 15 years of internship". We believe that this is how what the legislator in this law and thought is clearly defined. In addition, I will now look a little bit at what the secretary of state has already said in his opening statement, but since we were preparing a debate before that, a few things related to Article 12(1) and (2). The HSS Club shall appeal to the Ministry to review the provisions of Article 12(1), (2) and (3). Proposal to amend and supplement the Law, which leaves school principals for higher professional training, and which have been selected and appointed by the last elections, in the middle of the term of office in some ways without a job. In particular, Article 12(1) states that the appointed directors are to be suspended from the term of office from 1.1.2012 and would otherwise have a term of office until 2014. It is then stated in paragraph 2 that they have stopped their employment contract over a period of 4 months, which means that these people are actually sent directly to the Employment Office. Also, in paragraph 3 of the same article, I quote: "no other right to terminate a work contract" means that before today, directors have no right to either severance or to stay at school in another workplace. In primary school institutions, 353 directors with higher professional training were employed, which would lose their job and no right to work under the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. The HSS Club opposes the drawn fate of these people and therefore we propose to postpone the application of Article 167 of the existing law until 1.1.2015, allowing all directors to carry out their mandate by the end. In addition, we note that the analysis found that by then most directors with higher professional training would have obtained the conditions for a well-deserved pension, thus making savings because they would not have to publish new tenders for job filling. The calculation showed that out of these 353 people practically over 80% of their current mandate created conditions for retirement. Finally, after these comments and suggestions, we believe that the material that offers quality, timing and effective solutions and the HSS club will support the changes and additions in question. We believe that we will find a common language with the Proposer and agree on the adoption of the observations made, and that questionable solutions will be resolved to mutual benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56998	And club HNS, HSU, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u56999	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. This law remembers a colleague and colleagues took effect two years ago. Last year we were changing it at this time and the HNS Club, HSU when we were very loud and tried to convince other colleagues in the Assembly not to go in the direction of the changes that we had then, you remember we abolished free textbooks, we abolished co-financing of student homes, we abolished transportation for high school students, and we really didn't have to do that, that it was a powerful blow to the education system. As for the changes we are now offered we must be correct, objective to say that most of these changes we absolutely support. I'll comment briefly. And here we go in a row. As for the conditions under which we will give the school the status of parent or regional we feel that it is clearly necessary to regulate that area. We believe that this area is a very dynamic area. We who are a little older gentlemen know well when we were getting our first apartments in some new settlements at the time, not two schools were enough, that after 30 years one would be more than enough and so on in cycles. Therefore, this area should certainly be regulated and we can only support it. However, what SDP colleagues have said we agree that there should always be some kind of a little more serious analyst. It's not enough to provoke the Secretary of State so we can hear that it's only going to be saved on two principals, at the severance of a million kuna. Still, it would be good to hear how many such schools are likely to change their status, how much real savings they will be. Therefore, it is one very serious area and every few years I find reasons why parliamentary representatives could not get such data, seriously sit around these numbers and clearly give each other support when this support is needed and I am second-times based on the numbers that we will get to say no, let's still postpone it for another time. Therefore, there we agree, and with this serious lack of analysis, we object. Now, as far as the second amendment is concerned, it refers to the obligation of the schools, or their founders, to help girls and boys who come to Croatia, who do not know the Croatian language. It's certainly to support and greet. We have here given one amendment, Mr. Secretary of State, to consider that since it now applies to all boys and girls, not only those whose parents are Croatian citizens. We think that then it is possible to throw out a part of the text so that it is not complicated with the text and that this article is further explained. So here's the change we've given one amendment to. As for the pronunciation of pedagogical measures from the smallest said classroom, to the most difficult one spoken by the principal, and to the exclusion from school, we have also given the amendment that it is not good for the principal to be the one that will finally exclude a student from school. We believe that this will always be interpreted as a personal matter with a student or his family. For this reason, we suggested that it should certainly not be the principal but that instead of the principal standing the school board. The school board is a very competent body. There are also representatives of schools and parents and founders and we find no reason why the school board would not be quality, would not represent a quality body that would make such a difficult decision. What bothers us a little is that in our discussions we are not discussing enough about some not so long ago pedagogical measures. For example, the educational and educational treatment of an extended professional procedure is something we supported, but unfortunately there is no sign of how much this and such treatment essentially resulted in positive developments in the field. We don't have any feedback, no analysis, and we think we should really see what we've achieved here by introducing that treatment. I know in person that in some schools teachers are against it, it complicates their lives. But that doesn't mean that we don't need to complicate their lives with seminars, permanent education in this area, that a really student benefits from this treatment. We're thin here, we've never done anything in terms of an analysis objectively to see what we can and how we do in that area. Furthermore, the fourth amendment you propose is to delete the provision that the Minister of Weekly Work Obligations of Teachers and Professional Associates in Primary School prescribes in accordance with the amount of direct educational work contracted by collective agreement. We and here can give you the green light, but we are very skeptical, because in Croatia everything that is put on paper in practice is not implemented. Namely, he's standing here consulting with the social partners. Consultation doesn't usually mean anything to us. And here we are extremely skeptical. We know what you're trying to accomplish. We understand, but since we're not going to have a chance again in a year, two days no reports of the success or failure of that consultation leave a very large questionnaire there. As far as precision is concerned, who can follow the teachers of class teaching and the teachers of the debate in question, we agree that this is a more correct and clear definition of the arrangement that such a person should have. As for the sixth amendment, a supplement is proposed... on the termination of the work contract, in particular you want to achieve continuity in the educational process so that it is not strictly 65, but a clear school year in which it ends in 65 years. [[You don't understand.]] That's good, that's how we do it in higher education, and that makes sense. I didn't even know I had to admit that element wasn't introduced into this, entered into this law. Final termination, namely regulation and question of the position of director in relation to the Labour Act. I don't think we've had any particular objections here either, and we can give that green light. So here we purposely wanted to point out these changes and the additions to some lack of coordination, in the exchange of information between the ministry, i.e. the Government and the Parliament, we think that we need to get a lot more information, especially in such a highly sensitive matter as primary education and school education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57000	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate, and is the first respected representative of Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57001	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The emergency parliamentary procedure referred to the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools, as it is intended to quote the proposer to adopt this law by means of a plan for the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme. The plan for the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme for July 2010 provides for an amendment to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools as a presumption for the implementation of the following measures, short-term measures to reduce the number of non-school staff in public schools with an obligation to implement in July 2010, medium-term measures to streamline the network of schools in line with projected demographic movements, with an obligation to implement the number of non-school staff in public schools with an obligation to implement the reform of the education system in accordance with the findings, an analysis of labour market needs, with an obligation to implement the Republic of Croatia until 2020. The proposal for amending the law does not specify which of these measures is directly linked to the proposed amendments, so it is not clear whether one or two more amendments to the law follow, or whether the proposed amendments to the law cover all three measures of the economic recovery programme, for which the law is now amended in July 2010. Since a reduction of non-school staff in public schools is to be carried out in July 2010, and by linking these changes with changes to the pedagogical standard in primary and secondary schools, which are also in the parliamentary procedure, we have reason to believe that the proposed amendments to the law create a legal basis for reducing non-school staff in public schools. The notion of untrained staff is not in positive regulations, nor is it explained, so we conclude that they are all persons employed in public schools who do not teach. Are they also professional associates who do not perform classes, but have their pedagogical function at school, or are only meant by administrative, technical and auxiliary staff who provide conditions for the regular functioning of the school? The proposed text and reasoning do not make it clear which workers in school institutions are subject to changes, and how and by what means will the reduction of non-teaching staff be implemented? If the proposal is intended to streamline work and public schools, it would be expected that the proposal is supported by data on the number and type of non-teacher staff, on measures which result in an excess of such staff, their number, the way in which the surplus and the amount of resources needed to provide excess staff, and savings and improvements which will be achieved in the coming years by rationalising the measures to reduce non-teaching staff in public schools. Since there is no question about it, and neither is demographic movements as a basis for rationalising the networks of schools, nor for the results of an analysis of the needs of the labour market, it seems that this law as well as the pedagogical standard... the method of the current assessment of the situation. [[You don't understand.]] However, the amendments to the law ensure new employment of young people in the education system by preventing the extension of work with the employer, those who turned 65 and 15 years of retirement. It is a pity that the applicant did not also support the data from which it would show how many young people under this provision will be employed in our education system for the next 5 years. Amendments to the law propose to regulate the issue of termination of the contract on work on the school institution's director. A bad solution has been proposed, as the relationship between the director's mandate and the work contract has not been resolved, so if such provisions are accepted they will in practice cause a number of problems. It is also poorly resolved that the status of directors found in the duties of the school director at the time of these amendments to the law, the directors are entitled to receive the salary of the principal for another 4 months after the end of the term of office, i.e. the entry into force of the 126th article of the law, and after that each other's right not only under the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, but also under the second regulation or collective contract, which means that those directors who do not re-nounch the directors will literally be thrown into the street, which is unacceptable. Just because it intervenes in the law for reasons relating to the fate of employees in the educational system and the fate of children and youth with long-term consequences, the Croatian Party of Rights does not support the urgent procedure of amending this law, which does not mean that the existing law does not need to be amended. On the contrary, we believe that the existing is not good, it needs to be changed in a way that either this existing one is fundamentally changing or bringing about a new one. For the Croatian party, the real issue is the educational system of the Republic of Croatia, which is not a question of either party or government, but is a question that determines the future of the country. It is too serious to remain regulated by the current law, and to regulate these changes and additions. The way he is now asked about the educational system of the Republic of Croatia by observing him as a whole from preschool education, higher education... the organisation, legal disorder, volunteerism and interests of individuals and groups, non-compliance with language standards etc. [[You don't understand.]] It is an opportunity to warn this about some more specific problems today in the system of education. I would remind myself of the problem of the Jagodnjak elementary school where there was no problem precisely because students of Croatian nationality were not allowed to attend the Croatian programme by their own free will. Today, the problem is that some teachers cannot get an extension of work relations, and they are employed for a certain period of time because of a certain need to rationalise what the residents of the place are, I would remind themselves that they are citizens of Croatian nationality in a municipality where the majority of Serbs are extremely sensitive to this particular issue is clearly guessing because they do not want their children to be handed over because they are not subject to the law they will teach under the Croatian programme. I'm asking that you take care of it, and that's a huge problem for these people. They're unusually sensitive to that very question, and it's not about money then or perhaps money. It needs to be understood for the needs of these people. We've also had opportunities here to hear that schools are going to be organized everywhere there's a child. One question for an unsettled case, which is the issue of Croatian citizens living in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and located on the other side of the Danube. How is the school organized there? How do these kids go to school? I would also remind myself in the end that when it comes to rationalising the networks of schools, we had similar examples with the networks of courts, and these measures in themselves do not bring this moment of rationalisation, they can cause increased costs due to the severance of persons who, in accordance with the applicable laws, have to pay compensation rather than have to assess the possibility of real rationalisation in the long run. No one is against rationalization, everyone is in favour of finding an optimal solution, but we must not play with the fates of people but must take advantage of any opportunity offered by any new technological solutions from another area to make all people work and function in both economic recovery and development of Croatia. So when it comes to all these pronouns or other non-teaching staff, it's all possible to tie it to different other programs. The question is, for example, the energy efficiency of school buildings and through this, to provide new investment in rationalisation processes, and through that and jobs for these people. And finally, I would like to point out that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law do not solve any real problem of the law. Out of the substantive uncertainty that creates problems in the system, they are contained in the basic provisions of the law and in the transitional and final provisions. I repeat, these measures do not make any specific changes for the better, and therefore I will not support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57002	Thank you. It's the honorary representative of the Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57003	In any case, I agree with colleagues Doric and Serbian counterparts' accentations that the law was done without previous analyses or if the analyses exist that they were not presented to us. So how many schools, what do you achieve in what time spaces and what kind of savings are you saving? In that sense, it could be concluded that this law is arbitration. So he's not resting on any objective basis. The only objective basis on which the law rests is government measures to improve the economy. I think it's a bad basis. It's a bad foundation because it actually implies a completely depraved way of treating the developed world and that club or that community that we're after. It assumes that education is adapted to the labour market. In which the labour market in Croatia is highly underdeveloped, and the system of education and the system of science in Croatia is relatively developed. So by adapting the education system to market logic on the one hand, we went back to those trends in the education system that we had in the mid-'70s or early '80s, and on the other hand we would actually reverse the education system. And thirdly, I remind you, so what has already been said, the law was passed in 2008, the law was amended in 2009, and we are changing the law in the last weeks and last days of the Assembly. Yesterday we heard an announcement that there would be further changes, so 2011. And that's where it comes from to conclude that this change of law has been speeded up as well. It is hasty because now we already know when we change the law that what we change is not enough but we will go further. So it would be much more rational to express myself in this dictionary to wait and come up with some more of the changes that will happen and only then go into the changes of the law. I'll talk a little bit more about it in this second item of the agenda, but the system of education and the system of science is extremely dynamic by its content. But according to the governance structure, he's very inert. And when we change the law every year, we actually introduce uncertainty into the system. Fourthly, it seems to me that there are some good points in the law, some good elements, but there are excesses in the law. Let's say one excess is that the cancellation must be regulated by written means. Well, for God's sake! Or, yes, I can't think of an example now, I'm sorry. So that's where I'm gonna stop. But the law doesn't have what it should be in my court after the constitution is passed. We've left the law to regulate the level of compulsory education. There's no such thing in this law. And that's his great drawback. We have therefore changed the Constitution, but we continue to keep together with Albania the level of compulsory education at primary school level. And the elementary school lasts us not 10 years but 8 years. And here we are dissonant with the EU and with the vast majority of education systems in developed and European countries. The law focuses on changing the size of parent schools, and then it is declared rationalization. I fully agree with my colleague Lugaric that rationalisation is not the most appropriate method for culture or education. But if we want to use a rationalization term, let's just say, please use that term that's at least 20 years in the service of the educational systems of developed countries. Let's not pursue a network of schools, but a network of programs from which a network of schools is then decoded. So again it's about me thinking of a missed element of rationalization. Rationalisation is carried out in such a way that the education system in Croatia or conditions of functioning of the educational activity in Croatia are balanced, i.e. to apply as much pedagogical standards as possible, which we will talk about later, which consists of rationalisation. The DA system of education and education in Croatia ceases to be as uneven as it is now, and as you know from its own examples, from a whole series of expert analyses is extremely uniform. Finally, it seems to me that the rationalisation of the system should contribute to the introduction of those measures that are in place in the most developed European countries. I'll just warn you of one element that hurts. For over 2 years, we are discussing that qualifications of teachers and teachers are equal to qualifications that apply in developed countries, i.e. that qualifications of teachers and teachers are translated according to the transitional provisions of the existing Law on Scientific Research and Higher Education. My people, two years of debate, we spend without anything moving in the system. And it's irrational and it's irrational that we spend so much time on what's supposed to happen by automation and that after that time and all these discussions, nothing happens. So we're a little contradictory in our demands, but here's what these remarks are all about, so we don't repeat the same mistake and we learn something from these discussions, or we're going to install some of the elements of these discussions into future solutions. I will also call on the other side of the assembly in this case, because what my colleague said we are one Parliament, regardless of what we are among the ruling and what we share in the ruling coalition and the opposition, to try to hear each other's arguments and not act according to interesting schemes and aprior tasks or orders. Education, science and health should be beyond party interests, especially current party interests, and therefore I ask you to respect these remarks in the following solutions by moving towards what you have called a rationalization of the education system but with an appropriate argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57004	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorary Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57005	committees absolutely ignore or at least put into another plan any party interests deeply believing that science, culture and education are absolutely for this country of primary importance and that any preference of party interests can only harm something that depends on the future of our country and our ultimately cultural identity. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57006	Thank you, reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57007	Mr. President of the Committee was not my intention to praise you, but I must commend you on a regular basis for the way you lead the Committee, and we have indeed managed to establish an appropriate level of expert debate on the Committee. However, when we get here in the Parliament, it seems that one part of that expert debate is losing its strength and one piece of the argument simply melts away and my pledoies have gone that way, so if it has come to an open ear, I am particularly pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57008	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, and it is up to the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57009	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's really hard to start by not realizing something that my colleagues have already pointed out, which is that we're only two days ahead of the session, two days before the summer break, we're discussing one very important law for primary and secondary schools and, unfortunately, it's an emergency procedure. It's an emergency procedure again. There's nothing I'd say unusually if the Ministry served us with an emergency procedure, we're used to it, there's nothing unusual about asking for a speedy debate, speedy adoption, inability to argue in two readings, it actually became a rule. I have to say that I'm sad about it, and that's why it really sounds like a demagogy when you invite us to discuss, suggest, make suggestions, etc. It just doesn't make any sense on your part anymore. So what I'm talking about has become a rule as has become a rule, that discussions like my colleagues discussed always happen in July. On 15 July 2008, 17 July 2009, 14 July 2010, therefore an incredible coincidence and a time when schools do not work full capacity, when many are on vacation or are on their way to vacation. I have no intention of suggesting any conclusion, I think everything is perfectly clear. So, there's nothing unusual about what I've said, but unfortunately there's nothing or good I'd say, because I think this law is clearly talking about how the Ministry works, how the Ministry works and how it makes the laws work. There's nothing unusual about one thing, which is that the Ministry is absolutely ignoring the profession. He ignores teachers, directors, their opinion, knowledge, experience attitude, social partners, and I don't really know what the script is worse, scenario A, when you completely ignore the profession, when you pass the Law yourself, then put it on the web pages, so you declare it a public debate, after which the waist when it sees what you've done gets a philosophical shock. And the second scenario is the one by which you hold the profession in the belief that it means something, you keep them in the illusion that their knowledge and experience, will, attitudes are worth something and mean something, so include them in writing the law. After all that law simply throw away, throw yourself at writing a new and professional one even by this scenario does not die of shock. And I know, gentlemen, that both scenarios are very common in your ministry. And what's the result, I think it's more than obvious. I don't really know what you'd say if you denied me justifiably for what I'm saying. I'm guessing that in the last six years, a lot of bad things have been done and that you haven't been effective in the way you were supposed to be, in which the profession and society eventually expected you. On your face, Mr. Secretary of State, I can see that you'll at least try to deny me, that you won't resist it, and then I'll try to beat you to it, and I'll say the following. I think you're constantly delaying solving objective problems and here's the law that you've now given us in the debate in some way, not in some way, that proves it. You are the existing directors and some existing directors have brought into a more difficult situation. Such high school directors we have today in Croatia I mean somewhere more than 30% and by law those from 1.1.2012 will not actually be recognized in the system at all and will not be able to compete in the offices of the director or others. Now you can say but they were familiar with the situation that could wait for them, they could be educated, but I'm asking you what you did as a ministry on the subject. What you've done to make these people come to school because objectively, if you don't change some articles in this law they're going to lose their jobs. You said, however, that in your statement that you would extend that term. So until when, Mr. Secretary of State, how long will you be able to extend it? It's just a problem that needs to be solved or what? Or one day we'll just throw these people out on the road. If they don't go to school, and you don't change the law, then their fate is more than clear. You deny me if that's not the case. Another piece of evidence from this law that says that you're doing some things wrong is something you've changed in the meantime, but it was originally contained in the law, and it refers to Article 104 of which now. So I'm just saying that it would remain so that the unions didn't rebel, so you didn't get the suggestion that it absolutely had to be done otherwise. So, putting on two hours of education class outside the norm, forgive me for the expression, but I think someone who really doesn't know the system can do it. I'm not going to use a harder expression than that. Who would want to be a classmate after that? Not to mention school preventive programs that the system does not actually recognise, or the law regarding the school prevention program norm does not know. And something that my colleagues used to say before me, which refers to the identification of a minimum number of departments and students, or the size of parent and regional schools, and you say that you and Mr. Minister won't be quitting schools, all practically remains as old, but at the same time you don't call things a real name in the context of the law itself. So, you don't say openly in the light of the law that school loses its status as a parent school, of course, the director and administrative staff. If this is necessary for rationalization, if this is necessary for lack of money, because of the economic crisis or recovery, I don't really know which one of your measures will recover, then you have to explain in your explanation what number of schools it is, so which schools will be the exception, which is the long-term projection of savings for the state budget. That's what my predecessors were talking about, and I think it's a really big lack of law that doesn't show that you've done a thorough analysis of what you're taking this law to rest on. If you had an analysis, I believe you'd explain the law and put it on. You just don't have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57010	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57011	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. Well, I'd like to correct more allegations there, but I believe that our secretary of state who has certainly had experience and trouble thinking will respond to someone else, but I would still point out what is very visible in these very materials, so I'm surprised that the colleague reacted so much. He says the ministry denies the principals and teachers. However, I must say that even that sharp union that goes public in its materials, I don't know if you got it, admits that several decisions here in this bill are therefore well acceptable. Let's say from the principal and from the teachers who need to retire. Therefore, this bill came from experience and you can see that the explanation states that opinions were accepted, both teachers and directors. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57012	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57013	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57014	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, she is a respected representative of Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57015	Thank you very much. My colleague Romana, you said in fact that this law does not solve objective problems and that you are right. In fact, I would repeat what Mr. Flego was saying, which is that there is no real analysis or that this law does not rest on objective grounds and that this is actually the basis on which it rests is the economic recovery of the government's economic programme, that this is a bad basis because it adapts to this education system of the market. The aim of this law is clear and this is to reduce maximum consumption by firing workers and eliminating material costs, i.e. regional and small schools. She's also in kindergartens. Instead of trying to keep the standards we already have. The reformist trend in this system should actually go the other way, but from this proposal, and this is also by completing professional services in schools, in fact, to strengthen the educational and pedagogical standard. It means all the opposite and certain that such a law cannot solve the objective problems that exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57016	Replica reply, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57017	Thank you very much. My colleague, Šimac Bonačić, I have been trying to explain in my debate how much I, i.e. to express my view that I do not think the ministry is doing well. And evidence of the ministry's failure to work well in the last five, six years we've had seas. For example, the law we passed on basic and secondary education two years ago in Article 37 contains the obligation of the Minister to adopt a number of acts, i.e. regulations. I have to admit I don't know their numbers, but he brought in only one and that in an extended professional procedure. For a year, it has been a regulation on evaluation, and what to say about licensing, about external evaluation, and I don't know if you know that Macedonia, Slovenia will not even mention, Macedonia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina have gone far in this. We've only got chaos, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57018	Please don't speak of your country, speak of your country as a parliamentary representative. Replica esteemed representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57019	Dear colleague Jerkovic, you have warned quite well in your debate that many contradictions and actually inconsistencies in the implementation of education policy and in fact your debate prompted an example that I can hardly explain to myself. On the one hand, the ministry in this primary and secondary school requires the rationalisation of institutions, i.e. the abolition of the status of primary schools, some parent schools, or the circulation of systems. On the other hand, in preschool education, which is why I remembered your city, the city of Rijeka which has one institution, the kindergarten "Rjeka" from the ministry gets a request that it be satiated in a few smaller kindergartens and that it has instead of one four, five directors and four, five secretaries, accountants, auxiliary services, etc. So, on one of these same things, we actually get two completely different messages from the ministry, I guess since preschool education is financed entirely by the units of local self-government knowing that yet the smaller institutions are perhaps better to achieve goals, so it's easier to give the order to do so all together. But it actually shows one, so almost incredible inconsistency.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57020	Replica reply, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57021	Thank you very much. You're right, colleagues. A lot of illogicalness, a lot of contradiction, but God didn't let us accidentally point to them. Here comes the Vice President of the Parliament warning me that I am not a good Croatian. I find that inadmissible...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57022	Excuse me. That's not what I told you, and you can't de-commit with me, and you can't put what I didn't say in my mouth. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57023	You may be right, Mr. Vice President, when you say I can't pole with you, but you have no right to teach me patriotism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57024	It is my duty to warn every parliamentary representative if I feel it is necessary to adhere to the Rules of Procedure and certainly not. Please don't throw it away! We're not here at the fair. And I reacted accordingly. Dear representative... Don't throw it away! You have no right to do that! And now it is on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary, Honorable Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57025	Thank you very much, Vice President. I could answer any of your facilities for what was said in these discussions, but unfortunately that would take a long time, so it wouldn't be correct, and this lamp would probably interrupt me. But let only a few of your illogical twisting facts etc. So, respected representative Jerkovic says we shouldn't be trusted and that we can't agree with our social partners and who knows what we're going to do if God doesn't give the norm rule to be out of the collective contract, because then it can be a cow. And at the same time, he says that we are from these same social partners who experience us in this way as you said you accepted their suggestion when it comes to classing. So what's that? I mean, at least it's weird, but I'll remind you. In high school is the norm rule we have out of collective agreement. With these same unions where you honor us that we will not respect our social partners has changed twice since I've been in this place, and have you ever heard of, say, representatives of the unions or their committees, the main committees that they've disputed that rule we've brought into consultation with them. Have you ever heard that? So much for the mistrust that you're trying to apostrophe when it comes to us in the ministry and the unions that do it with us. So if you want what the esteemed representative Mance said by quoting this part that's on the list that you got when you got into the assembly. So, we're here in the clear. Furthermore, there is talk of a higher professional preparation and directors who have a higher level of expertise. And in my opening address, I made it very clear, that this is the thing that is for a change and announced that we will change it and that it will not be asked that 1.1.2012 because we will move. And don't ask me now to say what year we're going to move, because you're going to make a decision after we suggest it. Whether it will be 2015 or it will be later so you will discuss it, but we have announced that we will surely send it here to the assembly benches to discuss it and that they will not be in such a situation. So, as far as we're concerned, that proposal will go, only if you stop and you say we'll leave them and let them go. That I'm a bit of a cartoon now. You're still talking about neighboring countries. You're talking about neighboring countries with which we, when it comes to education, are quite often found. Quite often. We had delegations from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, we were in Macedonia, we were in Albania, we were in Slovenia. So talk to them. Believe me, when it comes to external evaluations and state graduations, that this information is what we do and how it's being spent and that they're going to go into this business, pretty much the way we're going. We've never had a chance to read in the media that it's a good thing that's the way it is and let's just say it's the way it is. And when we talk about these positive things, so why didn't someone mention the first time that the state's graduation was conducted and how online high school enrolments are now going, say, and ask all over high schools what they say about it. Well, it's not a sin if sometimes something might be commended, but we, unfortunately, in our country, have a situation if something good is meant to be, and it's not even convenient to say it's good, but if there's some kind of phalling, even if it's small, let's blow it up. I don't think it's a good relationship for us. Or we're talking, you mentioned, say, textbooks. So you have now passed a law in the House that is much better than the one that was before, we have said that the textbooks can now be inherited, that the textbooks will be cheaper than last year, and when the document is brought next year, as foreseen by March of the month, that they will be even cheaper, etc. We don't get a chance to hear that. A series of you said we're going into some kind of change without some analysis. If I'd known it was going to be such an important reason we could have listed it here, but let me. For example, we are talking about reducing the number of non-school staff in schools, which is in the plan of economic recovery. If you want, let's say in the middle school system. By the end of the year, 13 auxiliary workers will be retired in dormitories, 13 librarians, 20 janitors, 8 janitors, 5 assistant workers, etc., 84, of some 2,000, it's not exactly 5%, but it's 4.6. We won't, these jobs won't be getting new jobs, because we've calculated, we know what the squares are, etc., and in fact no one's going to be out of a job, but those places are going to shut down. Secondly, if you will, when it comes to teaching staff, we said that young people are waiting for their chance. I'll read it to you, at least some of these 298 that's going to retire. Of course, teaching must be held and, of course, we will not put out jobs but new, young ones will come, because these will retire, and of these 298, here are some of the largest figures, let's say the teachers of professional subjects will retire 116, and the co-workers will go into practical class 7, Croatian teacher 32, English 12, physical 12, mathematics 23, German 5, physics 6, history 13, etc. Well, we didn't suck this data out of our fingertips, but we actually went ahead of you on the basis of that data. Please, if you want to give us a wide analysis in the future, we'll do it, but don't plant on us that we did something like you said here or that you might want it to stand. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm way out of line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57026	Thank you. One correction, MP Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57027	Interesting. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you said you could answer any SDP remarks, but I don't think you can, or I'm sure. You cannot answer the question where free transportation, free textbooks, where one-way work went missing, where the Croatian country of knowledge went missing. You may simply be able to answer those questions, but at this point you can't. And on the other hand, the fact is that young people are waiting for their chance, but they have to have a party book.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57028	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57029	My colleague Vinkovic, I can't fix you because you're incorrigible, and otherwise I've got my word for debate. ... Dear Mr. Vice President, please apologize for this intrusion of mine, but please allow me to hold this debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here is, unlike colleagues on the left hand side of the assembly, I will welcome the adoption of these laws, and try to answer the arguments of a colleague from that, that there is no objective basis for these changes, that the basis is bad, and similar to everything we have heard, to the fact that the amendments and additions of this law are affected by children, which I have already corrected in one correction by my colleague Lugaric. Why am I saying hello? Because I can sort of agree with what we're afraid of right now of the word rationalization. I believe that these amendments and additions to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools are not only brought in, it introduces rationalization, maybe a better word system is being put in order. What the Government has put into measures of the Economic Recovery Programme, these amendments and additions create the preconditions for achieving the measures that the Government has foreseen and prescribed. My colleagues and colleagues, 957 home schools and a thousand 262 district schools are in Croatia. Those who, colleagues who worked in education, know that students of small schools do not achieve better results in their education, and in a certain way lack socialization and certain conditions because at this point the Croatian state does not have this financial and material basis so that it can monitor all of this. And no children will get hurt because the status school will become an area and be joined by someone larger or more parent who is most likely in the same municipality in which this other school is located. In addition, this is a prerequisite, I hope the secretary of state listens to me so that he can correct me if I make a mistake in my allegations somewhere, I hope this will be an assumption because the government is obliged to bring a network of schools by the end of 2010. Therefore, the network of primary schools, although so far and under the existing law, was unable to do so because the founders failed to submit their proposals to the ministry. The ministry had to deliver a proposal to make the government a network of schools. And, colleagues and colleagues, please, when you're standing up for a network of schools then we split up, or a network of programs, then we split up the network of schools is in basic education, and the network of programs is about secondary education. And that's where we can agree just you're always categorically claiming we're not going to network programs. And here I will, here I stand for a basic school network, and a network of programs in high school. I also agree with the amendments concerning colleagues and colleagues to the terms of the director. And when you say that there's no point in this law, these amendments and additions make sense, the secretary of state said so. The severances that have been paid, and who and we who again call upon all those who have experience. Whether we worked in schools, whether we worked in units of local, regional self-government in which they have founding rights. We were all aware of the money in the cloudy or whatever space the law allowed the principals not to be re-elected, and sometimes with their own will, to declare themselves a technological surplus and to take big money for it. And after all, I think we've all had a chance to read these days in the media one such case that ended up in court. When we take care of the directors who have higher professional equipment, colleagues and colleagues, I am not about to introduce a special school for directors, and then we complain that the directors with higher professional training will not meet this condition. So, because that school for directors as well as any school, like any diploma, does not mean that someone will do better. So, I'm not denying that current directors with higher professional training can do the job equally well. However, in the 21st century, I think we can all agree that the condition has been completed by university graduates. I welcome what has been introduced that teachers with 4-year-old education are also included in these conditions. And that's why I don't see any problem, and the secretary of state has promised to make changes and supplements that won't leave anyone on the street since 01.01.2012. And I'm going to welcome what's now decidently stated that educational workers are going to retire at the age of 65. State Secretary, I think that's how it was until the last time this law was passed since 2008. Because I've always said, the truth is this is a unique law, so it applies to basics and high school. The primary school has one problem, professionally and secondaryly has other problems, but I advocate that young people, young highly educated people enter the system and that our 6-year-olds get young teachers who will lead them further through primary school. Thus, at 65 years of age and fully respecting that it must be for the teaching staff at the end of the school year 31.08 in the year of their 65 years of life and 15 years of training to retire. I think that with these brief remarks on this law that I say I fully support and expect, as soon as possible, the Secretary of State that also those things that are not included in these amendments and additions will be contained in the next amendments to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57030	Thank you. Replica a lot. The first female representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57031	Dear colleagues, I think you're having a little bit of an initial exposure when you said that students from smaller schools have problems and that they're getting weaker results and that they're less socialized that you're a little bumpy. But let me read you one message, or one e-mail that I received a few hours ago. She says a colleague works at school and I quote: "I work at 2 schools on this spectacular list of Bedenica and Bisag Evening Lists. The school in Bedenica until 4 years ago was a regional school. The working conditions were mildly catastrophic. Sanitary node off-function, no kitchen and central heating with walls painted 20 years ago, mice and similar pets, and not to add any more. Visiting the principal from the home school could be counted on the fingers of one hand, without a library, without a pedagogical. It's terrible! After the school was left alone, things changed dramatically. Although there are 4 classrooms and classes take place in 2 shifts today this school is reborn. We have an active cooperative, a kitchen, an IT classroom, a decorated sanitary node, a playground and a beautiful environment. Such a picture is due to the principal, parents, students, and us teachers. When I remember how many Saturdays we had, the workshop action, but we were always happy to respond because we knew that if we did something ourselves, no one would. The Ministry's giving everything to the dropper anyway. If this title is true, I'm afraid that in a few years we'll be running around our environment again, because let's be a real director from Zeline again, we won't be in our field school or a pedagogogogog with half the time, which is still too little for our needs. No one will listen to our needs and encourage and support our actions. Don't let them continue to destroy our education and turn this overindebted Croatia into a country of ignorance."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57032	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57033	Thank you very much. First of all, my colleague Lugaric, I didn't say that... they didn't have a problem but you obviously didn't correct me or you didn't listen to me very well. This second, I come from a county that has 35 parent schools and 86 district schools and I'm very well aware of the problem conditions in the district schools and everything depends on the founder and people. Because now that you've read this, it's the front page of a daily newspaper that's incorrect, but obviously they have to sell, newspapers have to harass the Croatian public, especially in areas where school termination has been announced. But your letter shows that nothing depends on the law but the opposite depends on people. That's what the lady who wrote and addressed you with that letter told you, because there's no reason that because they have a pedagogical they now have all the conditions, and if they become regional, then that's not going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57034	Next replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bilić Vardić I agree with the majority of your exposure, but you gave me the opportunity to replicate when you said that this Law puts the system in order. This law is trying to get the system in order, but we agree with each other, but I want to tell you we can only introduce order if you and I and your SDP colleagues are extremely objective, so my club has asked for analysis. The secretary of state has a little bit of an objection to what it's all about, but I'm going to give you an example. Pedagogical measures. We all know how many high school students are left out of class. The average is enormous, the effect of pedagogical measures zero or almost zero. I wonder if we can't talk about it, see what else we can do. If he beats the hell out of me. The pedagogical measures may not work and... why don't the students who were least missed get some bonus points in enrolment at the university, for housing at home..., for enrolment and for anything else, why don't we really have the data objective and correct that you and I can agree on an optimal policy tomorrow, here's why I reacted to this introduction order.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57036	Thank you for the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57037	Thank you very much, colleague Doric, for your replica, for bringing order into the system, and I agree with the greatest part that should have been the basis I will talk about when we have the Standards Report. However, we have had the opportunity to hear the secretary of state who has the information and perhaps those who contact the Ministry know that the Ministry is investing, not only because they had to deliver it to the Croatian Parliament, because it is an obligation and the law of 2008. A report on the achievement of national standards rather than because of the overall situation, a recording of the existing situation in which they had to go in this way to change and supplement in order to really begin the right to introduce order into the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57038	And the next replica, Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57039	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues today can discuss as much as we want, but it is evident from the presentation of their views on behalf of clubs, individual and colleague Bilić, who has now said what I want to replicate to her, it is evident that these 14 changes and additions are summed up in 14 articles to the benefit of students, professors and parents and there are no spectacular terminations of parent schools, conversions to regional schools, that they will lose the vast majority of schools of their parent statuses, etc., I think these changes and additions, I repeat once again for the student, for colleagues and colleagues working in the educational process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57040	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57041	Thank you very much, colleague Djurdjevic. I'm just going to take this opportunity and say it again, point this out precisely because of the schools that took place today in the daily newspaper. Let's just say there's a school in Slavonski Brod that I come from, Milan Amrush School, a school for students with developmental difficulties, which I'm sure no one will miss the status of the home school, but that for the students of that school create better conditions, both with the help of the town of Slavonski Brodo-Posavina County, I'm sure the Ministry will have an understanding for the needs of students with developmental difficulties.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57042	And Madam Representative Ljubica Lukaci. Next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57043	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is colleague Bilić Vardić I fully support your debate and I think these amendments to the law are welcome, but I think there are still a few things that need to be mentioned. In fact, this is more like a proposal to Mr. Secretary of State and his associates that even when amending this Law in a special way, care is taken when it comes to staffing on professional support in the educational process of children with developmental difficulties. Namely, why I'm saying it. Here's the D.A.'s Attorney for Persons with Disabilities, one letter addressed the Ministry, and I have no doubt that special care will be devoted to children with developmental difficulties. The Advocate-General has also proposed amendments to Article 19(3). Laws which are not covered by these amendments, for justifiable reasons, and that is because the adoption of the Social Care Act is under way. So my recommendation is to carefully consider this proposal to enable students with developmental difficulties to receive equal treatment in the educational process. Of course, I would also like to point out that, when considering this proposal, particular attention should be paid when it comes to terminology, we stress that several times already. So students with developmental difficulties, not just with difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57044	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57045	Thank you very much. Comrade Lukačić, I fully support yours, and I have not seen you lift my replica board when you mentioned both students or schools in Slavonski Brod which is native, I support you. The only thing I'm sure at this point is that it won't be possible for what you've proposed to implement throughout the law to bring students into line with the difficulties of development because in these changes and in standards and everything else, because the 2008 law simply remained students with difficulties and nothing further was written. It needs to be coordinated. I hope the ministry accepts that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57046	And Mr. Agent Iron Flego, the last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57047	My colleague Bilić Vardić, I agree with you that with good laws... It depends mostly on good people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But people can be good by nature, by character, by education, and can be good at education. You see, as far as the principal is concerned, whatever university of teaching or pedagogical direction you end up having a hard time being on your own, so according to the structure of education qualified for directors. That is why we have introduced a legal obligation to license work, and this measure is unfortunately not applicable. Therefore, we should work to make sure that what good we have done finally begins to be applied to the greatest extent possible. And secondly, when we talk about people who retire, and they need to be taken care of, they're, say, at the end of a professional path, it doesn't matter how many degrees of progress a man has in a proper calling. Let's say they retire at 140% of the beginner's salary or 250% of the beginner's salary. Is there two degrees of progress or four? So whether they themselves are stimulated, whether they are stimulated by the system to grow in their calling, so also in their knowledge both professional and pedagogical, so whether they are knowledge and teaching skills or not. So we have to combine different elements, the system has to enable people and stimulate people to move forward and grow, and then that system will allow them to be better than they may be in their own nature, to put it simply, they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57048	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57049	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Flego, I agree with this, and I am not against the licensing system that we have introduced to educate or further educate the directors. And I support this promotion in knowledge, and I agree that it's not the same to go, but I think that we should specifically discuss this promotion in primary and secondary schools, apart from these laws, because I am that people do what they do, and do very responsible work, highly educated people do a very responsible job, be better rewarded, and not only through this promotion in calling during work hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57050	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57051	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 592, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by HNS HSU Representatives' Club, please the representative of State Secretary Željir Janjic to point out the amendment of the HNSH Club to one amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57052	The first amendment by the Government accepts the amendment of the HNS's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57053	It becomes an integral part of the bill. The second amendment to Article 3 of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57054	The second amendment of the same HNS Club, HSU, cannot be accepted by the government. In fact, it is the fact that it is stated exactly who gives a pedagogical measure, thus warning the classroom, reproof of the class council, and this pedagogical measure of which the esteemed representative Doric speaks, says the director because we always leave room for appeal so that someone in the second degree can solve it. In this case, that second degree is exactly the school board, so please withdraw the amendment on the basis of it, the esteemed representative Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57055	Thank you. On behalf of the Club Mr Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57056	The intensity of this amendment was of course not to be taken as a person of conflict with the family, a student accordingly, it is logical that this work is done by the school board. We are still convinced that we have talked to a large number of directors who have indeed said that their situation is unpleasant, that they must bring the most difficult pedagogical measure, for this reason I would ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57057	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. We're going to vote. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by a majority of 86 votes in favour, no abstentions and 30 against, together with the amendment adopted. Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57059	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, if business were to be responsibly accessed then the Government of the Republic of Croatia would make a network of schools and a network of programmes, and then there would be no left to tell the story of arbitration decisions. But how you very insist on deciding these things yourself, that the tables... from one finance administration of the Ministry of Science are actually the most important in pretty important decisions that complicate the lives of many mayors and mayors, I will not give up my amendment and ask for a vote. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57060	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57061	It's also not acceptable. We propose these performance coefficients, so by 2017, I said in the debate yesterday, which is why, I said that if we were to hire a person at each school to maintain computer equipment, then we should have a thousand and 383 persons, I said that at an annual level of 123 million kuna and 168 thousand kuna, that at this point it is not realistic to plan it, and for these reasons we suggest that the performance coefficient be 3. This means that by 2017, it is possible that it will happen before, but we appreciate that this is completely realistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57062	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57063	Mr. Secretary of State would be fine if you hadn't invested millions and millions of kunas in recent years to get information equipment for schools. If you do not hire people who will maintain this equipment, I ask you what will happen to expensive IT equipment by the end of 2017. Perhaps the problems that our school teachers have with filling the e-mother and printing the testimonies wouldn't have been so much so that we had people who would be involved in the maintenance of the system, who would also be involved in this information aid. Since you haven't done it so far, even though you had to because you didn't bring a rule there, and that greater damage would happen financially by the collapse of actually this information equipment, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57064	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, and I would like to vote on the amendment and addition of the state pedagogical standard of the secondary education system. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal changes and complements the state pedagogical standard was accepted by most votes, 81 votes for, nothing abstentions, 38 against, together with accepted amendments. We're crossing. Here you go, Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57065	We're going to the next point. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 572 The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, education, science and culture. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Ivana Mrkonjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57066	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I would like to present to you only briefly the content and purpose of the amendment and addition of the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development. Therefore, this law further strengthens the management structure of the foundation in order to ensure more efficient management of the trust property and create conditions for mobilising funds outside the state budget, including through relevant EU funds. To that end, new trust authorities, the Executive Director and the Scientific Committees shall be established in Article 3. Article 5 provides that members of the Management Board shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Candidates for the President and members of the Management Board of the Foundation shall be determined by the Government by three members on their own, and by one member on the proposal of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the National Council for the Scientific Area, the Croatian Employers' Association and the Rector's Assembly, taking care of the equal representation of all scientific areas. Article 5 shall specify more precisely the work and powers of the Management Board, which shall be prescribed that the Management Board of the Foundation proposes a strategic plan of the foundation for the five-year period. This strategic plan brings together the Croatian Parliament, which recognises and develops priority scientific areas in order to strengthen the integration of the Croatian Scientific System into the European Research Area, connect scientific research with innovation and production processes and to ensure conditions for the effective use of European funds for science and innovation. Finally, Article 6 provides for the division of responsibilities and management of business processes in the Foundation and, in that sense, the Executive Director takes over the management of the daily management of the trust and is selected by public tender, and the scientific committees run the affairs of scientific reviews, evaluations and propose projects for financing to the Management Board, and are made up of top scientists from Croatia, diaspora and abroad, and are selected by public competition. So, we hold that the proposed amendments and additions to this Act will further improve the work of the Foundation, and if we give your debate to some proposals that can further contribute to this objective, we will consider them very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57067	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to read this whole text you got, I'm just going to get a few highlights that I think are important to the subject and to the debate. So the first topic would be to strengthen the management structure of the Foundation in two ways, at least two ways. First, to appoint the President of the Management Board directly to the Croatian Parliament and thus entrusts him with greater responsibility in the management of the foundation. The second thing that seems particularly important to me is the formation of scientific committees, i.e. new bodies that need to carry out scientific review, evaluation and propose projects for financing to the Management Board. The amendments would also establish that the Management Board of the Foundation proposes to the Croatian Assembly to adopt the Strategic Plan of the Foundation for five-year periods, with the development of objectives and programmes that are in line with the long-term development of Croatia. So that's one perspective that I think is also very important. It would, of course, contribute to the integration of the Croatian scientific system into the European Research Area. The debate also clearly discussed the perspectives of the National Science Foundation in terms of budgetary revenues and beyond the budget. Obviously, these revenues in recent years have not been satisfactory and it is also necessary to strive in the framework of revenue that is budgetary and especially in the context of outside budget revenues to strengthen the funding of the foundation, as otherwise it can happen that in a year and two practical foundations will no longer have anything to do. That is one element that is highlighted in the debate and that seems very important for us to function and for the successful development of the foundation. The Committee also proposed three amendments. I'm just going to warn you about one, because this is where it happened, and there was one word of copying, and I didn't notice it. It is proposed, it is the amendment first to change the name of the foundation by saying the Croatian Foundation for Science. It explains that the foundation does not deal with higher education. It is necessary to stand directly with higher education, because higher education is impossible to separate from science, scientific research. Higher education actually comes from scientific research, it is powered by scientific research. Therefore, this formulation may seem in fact incorrect and clearly not the purpose of the change and the amendment proposal. This foundation will certainly continue to cooperate with higher education and with the university system as the bearer of this higher education. I'd mention another amendment two is mostly technical. I would like to mention the amendment three, in which the Committee has just proposed that Amendment three, i.e. amending Article 5(5) by replacing the number of six members of the Management Board with the number of eight, and the proposed paragraph 2 is amended as follows: "The candidates for presidents and members of the Management Board of the Foundation shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia taking into account the representation of all scientific areas." As you know, there have been a lot of complaints that so far the foundation has been directed more towards some areas of biomedical etc. while some other areas are humanistic, social, etc. may have been neglected or at least less present. So, from all scientific areas, four members on the proposal of public scientific institutes. It's being introduced as a new one. That wasn't in the first draft of the law. So, that scientific institutes appear as carriers, as proposing members, which will then be proposed by the government to the Croatian Parliament for appointment. And what's also a change and what confirms what I said earlier, which is that two members were intended to only one choice on the proposal of the Rector's Assembly. This just emphasizes the importance of the university in the process of scientific work and is considered that if 50% of the approximately scientific work is located within the Zagreb University, then it is logical that universities have two places. It is assumed one place from Zagreb University, one place of another Croatian university. Clearly, it's not a regulation. And there are three other promoters of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the National Council for the field of science and the Croatian Employers' Association. About this last one, there was some kind of dispute. It has been suggested that employers may be said, but there must be some institution that proposes. So we decided to keep this proposal in this form. That'll be all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57069	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57070	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. With this law, I see at least three kinds of problems, and I'd like to highlight just some. The first I would call a scientific-political problem, the second I would call a political-economic problem, and the third I would call an internal-political and foreign-political problem. First of all, the question is what is the status of the foundation in the Republic of Croatia and in the system of scientific research in our country. We have determined by the Foundation Act that Croatia is beginning to follow the practice of the most developed countries in Europe and the world, that the associated scientists, which is the foundation, are getting funds from a country with one obligation, to use them in the best way possible or otherwise, by optimally spending them. And of course that's what public or state accounts are for. In other words, scientists are given the opportunity to decide by means of measurements of their competences what is priority, what should be explored and what resources should be financed. That's how the Foundation Act came into existence, and that's how the foundation came to be. So far, so far, the idea of the creation of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Foundation has, in fact, named bodies on behalf of the ministry, decided on scientific research that on the one hand scientific research would be approved and financed at the same time. Since the foundation's moment of operation, the United Scientists should have taken over the work, and now there are difficulties with this bill. According to our court, the work of the trust in the transitional period in the first paragraph of page 3, which is not fully explained, but in the first indent, page 4, is said and one fatal saying is found in our court, and I quote: "For the implementation of this law, it is not necessary to provide additional funds, given that in the State budget for 2010, 2011 and 2012, the ministry provided funds of a million, i.e. a million 97 and 110000 kuna respectively. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the value of saying scientific research is cca 250 million kuna a year. By letter from the Management Board, the Foundation shall inform the Assembly Committee that its assets that were released from the Tier 1 capital were directly engaged until 2012. Which means that the foundation can no longer approve scientific projects with existing funds and that in 2012, the whole thing will die, no more funds from the foundation. How we're going to finance with a million kuna that's about 250 million kuna, I don't know. If it is to believe the letter of reasoning of the law, then we can say that science in Croatia is euthanized, that there is no money for science in Croatia anymore. I'll remind you of the warning we gave when we adopted the state budget. We then warned that the amount of personal income in the total cost of science increased to 85, in some cases 87%, which means that for everything else there is 13 to 15%, which means there is no development, there is no investment, there is no supply of equipment, because with 13 to 15% we pay phones, heating, electricity, toilet paper and everything else. And if there's anything left for the toners and for the communication. So science is brought to the brink of survival, and now if we give the foundation a million kuna, then science in the Republic of Croatia is gone. And therefore we are in front of a dilemma of scientific policy, whether we want science in Croatia or not. If we want to, then we have to decide whether we want science in Croatia in an old-fashioned or old-fashioned way, so that the ministry decides everything, or whether we will have science in Croatia for what we have declared, to be decided by the joint scientists, or by the foundation, and then the foundation should be given the funds of the Ministry of Science, not a million kuna, but 200, 250 million kuna per year. That's what this is about. And this dilemma is very serious, not only because of scientific activities as such, but because of the social role of scientific activity, which rests on the possibility of improving the region, the state, the nation, Europe, humanity, whatever you want. We disagree with the euthanasia of science, and we actually believe that from this situation comes another very big problem, I called it political-economic. Science is crucial not only to sustain existing economic development, but also to develop this economic functioning. There's no innovation today, there's no competitiveness, there's no technology transfer, there's no relevant production skills without science. Science is getting more complicated, science is getting more expensive, science is getting bigger. And the moment we made science impossible in any way, and here financially, that moment we actually blocked our own economic development. We have disabled the understanding of the modern world, made it impossible for us to understand what the modern world is doing and to pass on to us on the one hand, to prevent what the modern world is doing from understanding and passing on to us and from making some authentic product. We've disabled simply our own competitiveness, and I'm asking you to understand that. So the euthanasia of science is the euthanasia of the economic development of the environment that science euthanizes and disables. From this problem comes the third, because I'm inclined to perform the third. It's an internal and foreign policy problem. We are entering or intending to enter the European Union. And it is therefore necessary to take on as many of the best practices of the European Union as possible and to integrate and comply with our opportunities in our own... The foundation needs to grow stronger and the ministry is increasingly weak as a state administration authority, and the ministry is becoming an instance of state or public oversight instead of an instance of decision-making. [[You don't understand.]] Nothing more. I remind you that some countries don't have the Ministry of Science, and they're doing excellent scientific work. We're not at that level yet, but we need to think about it and we need to strive for it. So if we continue with the old way of working, then we will still actually be administratively bureaucratic, instead of the practice that is predominant in European countries or European Union countries, and then we will have to solve the problem in an additional way. And so it's better to look ahead and solve it at the beginning than to allow it to develop and then look for a subsequent resolution. So much better prevention than recovery. That I hope is something we all agree on, especially the medics. And two, three technicals colleagues and colleagues. Since there is an energetical, therefore another substanceial remark, since we are vigorously opposed to the failure of the foundation, the lack of funds of the foundation and the kind of euthanization of science, and that is one of the reasons why we think it is necessary to introduce a moratorium on all new initiatives of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, because in this sense they are extremely harmful. And as far as technicality is concerned, it is totally unacceptable for us in Article 5(2) that from the Croatians, we believe that the foundation should be what our colleague Doric was talking about, what we have mentioned very often on the board and on committee sessions, that there must be an appropriate triangle to say, that the science of education and the economy could operate optimally, so on the one hand, science and education, in one corner, is the economy or economy, in the third corner is the state, or the public. We believe that an employer's representative is very welcome in the foundation, but we are opposed to the fact that out of 5.6 employers' associations being named one, that only one gives its representative to the National Foundation for Science. It is the Croatian Employers' Association or so-called HUP. So we are about to say instead that they are representatives of employers, so in one term, let them be representatives of one association, in the second term the second term, let them agree on their own, or let it be the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which is the widest association of employers. And if the foundation is now colleagues and colleagues in the transitional period if there is a danger of its existence stopping in 2012 then this ritual change in the way the foundation works is completely unsustainable, then the introduction of an operational body, i.e. the Executive Director, is quite excessive. So we, as a committee, suggested that it be resolved by the normative acts of the foundation, not by the law to always be the same. And in that case, it might be simpler and fairer to say, let's keep the foundation until 2012, and then we'll see if there's any strength and ways to get the foundation back on its feet and get that operational task that's originally and intended for it, or maybe that task will be evaluated and redefined, and then all this gymnastics, so to speak, legal gymnastics doesn't make any sense. And so it would be our proposal to really think about what and how we will continue with Croatian science, and that the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science is a great reason to finally do it and maybe tell ourselves where we stand and what we want to do in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57071	Thank you. The HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57072	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Madam Secretary of State. It is a visible intention of the legislator to strengthen the work of the Foundation in a way that strengthens it through the governance structure, in order, among other things, to withdraw more money from European funds and to support the adoption of this law in the HSS club. In particular, the aim of documents such as the 2006-2013 Strategic Framework for Development, the Investment in Science and Research Action Plan, as well as the scientific and technological policy of the Republic of Croatia from 2006 to 2010 is to develop a high-quality scientific and high school sector that will support the economic, social and human progress of its environment and which will be the backbone of knowledge-based society. However, like everything in this world, and the development of scientific projects and their implementation, someone needs to be paid. For this purpose and the foundation is established as a central and independent institution for public funding of science, which is guided exclusively by criteria of expertise and scientific excellence and national research priorities, and last year by amendments and additions to the law, this position is further defined. Strengthening the foundation will contribute to increasing R & D investment and their efficiency. So far, the foundation has already achieved a number of international partnerships with related institutions in Europe, developed an evaluator base and joined the European Science Foundation. Strengthening the governance structure will allow for more efficient management of its assets, and space will be opened to obtain additional funds outside the state budget as for example from EU funds. To this end, it is also proposed to set up new trust authorities such as the Executive Director who would be elected by a public tender, which would certainly contribute to greater transparency and independence, as well as to the institution and scientific committees which would conduct scientific reviews, evaluations and boards of directors propose projects for funding. We are positive about the proposal to be top scientists in the scientific committees from Croatia, diaspora and abroad with experience in leading and reviewing scientific projects that would also be selected by public competition. The President and members of the Management Board, which include representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association, are selected from the ranks of scientists and experts who have already proven their ability to create the necessary framework for the collection of additional funds outside the state budget and, in addition, strengthen interinstitutional cooperation and ensure equal representation of representatives of all scientific areas. We consider it particularly good to be a provision by which a more complete definition of the time period for which a strategic plan is adopted and a 5-year period has been set for the development of objectives and programmes, through which the Foundation will identify and develop priority scientific areas in order to make the Croatian scientific system more successful in the European Research Area and everything that arises. And given the financial situation in the country, the most important thing is to create conditions for the use of European funds for innovation and science. A reduction in the number of offices, although some see a certain centralisation in this, will result in higher savings for the operating costs of the foundation's operations. Despite the fact that we believe that this legislative proposal for a foundation is further strengthened from the scientific circles, we can hear complaints about the urgency of the procedure as well as the lack of public debate. Although the ungrateful economic situation certainly is one of the main reasons for such a process, it seems that the public concerned could be more involved in the drafting of this proposal. First of all, I think of scientists who, and in a situation where the financing of their work and scientific projects does not take place in a way that we would still like not to give up in their knowledge to enrich humanity for new knowledge and discoveries, many of which will contribute to raising the quality of our lives. Whether in the field of medicine, whether in the field of new technologies, either through the opening of new jobs, which is eagerly expected by many Croatian citizens who are today in full power sentenced to wandering from door to door looking for a job they do not have. But I also want to say that we at the HSS Club have received certain remarks from the scientific circles and instructions and I will ask the State Secretary to comment in her final address. Last year, amendments and additions to the laws required the prevention of conflicts of interest through the ban on participation in trust authorities by members of the highest state bodies and leaders of scientific institutions and through the ban on competition with members of trust authorities for the funds of foundations and the introduction of the obligation to report any conflict of interest in relation to reported projects. According to our information, some members of the trust authorities have, therefore, realised themselves that in the conflict of interest and asked to be resolved a year ago, but it seems that this solution from the Ministry of Science to the board in the Croatian Parliament has not yet arrived, or until the hearing is concluded on the board as far as I have the information it has not been resolved. Secondly, it is a question that is being opened, and it is the very core capital of the foundation because last year's amendments to the Foundation Act are, in fact, guaranteed that the Foundation can use its core capital. These changes virtually disappear 40 million kunas in the amount of funds from the budget. And right now, there is actually no clear indication of where the money will come from in the future except from European funds. We fear that this may soon become a problem and it would be necessary to solve this problem because otherwise the functioning of the foundation and the financing of the projects will be questioned. Why does it matter? Well, this is important for the reason that Croatia as a knowledge-based country must not only be a flossula. Only by knowledge, perseverance and diligence can this country rise from the economic crisis. Science is and should be one of the drivers of Croatian Development. In this respect, all activities undertaken among other things and this Legislative proposal should go in order to enable the work of the most qualitative scientists and to finance the truth of the best projects, because at this time when they save everyone where they can, money must be used in the best way, to bring more and not less invested. I do not mean the monetary viability of the project, but their contribution to the development of science in Croatia and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57073	Thank you. The HDZ club Mr. Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57074	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to point out at the very beginning the following. In her economic recovery programme, the government of the Republic of Croatia made the following clear a month ago. Special attention will be paid to building an education and science system appropriate to the needs of economic development. And that I think is a key finding, a finding that deserves more attention to the Croatian public, not only in the sphere of science, in the sphere of the economy and in many other areas. Building a system of education and science appropriate to the needs of economic development. This is a very challenging and complex topic, I am afraid that we need discussions and knowledge and better understanding of what and how this would really happen in Croatia's science and Croatian economy and in the interests of Croatian science and in the interest of the Croatian economy. Without that interaction, without that connection, without this synergy, no funds to strengthen the foundation, no more funds in the budget for education and everything else. Promoting entrepreneurship, through the education system, is also a subject that is clearly highlighted in the programme of economic recovery of the Government of Croatia and in this context, and in accordance with these objectives, I want to say something about the proposal for this law aimed at further strengthening the system of science but, in particular, the specific case of the national Foundation for Science, as it was once called probably for higher education and technological development, the HDZ Club absolutely supports those initiatives and amendments that nevertheless limited resources and financial and human focus on one important activity, science would add to what I said at the beginning, not only science because of science, but science above all, which will strengthen the quality of the education system, but also strengthen the Croatian economy. These are key objectives of implementing scientific technology policy, one of the key steps towards strengthening Croatia as a knowledge-based country. It's gonna take a lot of effort and time for this to happen. The Foundation as a central independent institution for public funding of science is guided by criteria of expertise and scientific excellence and it is very important but as I said it is not enough, and it cannot be self-inflicted or justified. This is definitely about national research priorities, and it will be very important for limited human and financial resources to be in line with clearly defined national priorities, and this is the proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on the National Foundation for Science. The strategic plan is certainly the subject that deserves far more attention. The document also points out that under the circumstances of the economic crisis, its impact on the financing of the scientific system needs to be further strengthened by the management structure of the Foundation, which will ensure an even more efficient management of the assets and create conditions for the deployment of additional funds outside the state budget. And it is a key and very important task of the Foundation and we can say very simply, on this plan the Foundation has not done much in its work so far. To provide additional funding outside the state budget is a real challenge, in the economic circumstances in which we live today, it is a real challenge for those who have financial resources to know about scientists who can be productive, useful, not only through publicity, through innovation, through the ability to manage, complex, I would say primarily industrial and technological projects. This type of knowledge and this type of expertise Croatia needs to do well. It further stresses the need to establish new Foundation bodies, the Executive Director, and the Scientific Committee to which part of the work within the Foundation is assigned, in order to share responsibilities and transparent management and business processes. In any case, the introduction of the Executive Director I think it is very useful to dynamic the work of the Foundation, to concentrate the work of the Foundation on those projects, to conduct selections, to hold talks with those parts of the Croatian economy who are willing to be partners of Croatian science and who want to invest in strengthening their technological competitiveness in the long term, their technological competences and that means competitiveness in wider not only domestic markets. It is certainly understood by the definition that scientific committees should include top scientists from Croatia, diaspora, abroad with experience in leadership, I would say especially in the management of scientific projects, especially in the management of scientific projects that have applied industrial technological characteristics. Reviewing scientific projects is certainly an important part of the task to allocate limited funding to those who can use these funds in the most productive way possible. The President and members of the Management Board shall be selected from the ranks of proven scientists and experts who will create conditions for the allocation of additional funds of the out-of-state budget. And that, again, is the subject that deserves more effort, more attention, more debate in Croatian political life in order to provide additional funds outside the state budget for science financing, according to the Lisbon Treaty 3%, 1.5% of the public sector, 1.5% of the economy. The strategic plan of the foundation for the five-year period in which the objectives and programmes that are in line with the long-term strategic directions of the Republic of Croatia should be developed is very important and key. The Strategic Plan of the Foundation should identify and develop priority scientific areas in order to strengthen the integration of the Croatian scientific system into the European Research Area and to link scientific research with innovation and production processes, in particular the economy. A few words about the individual articles of the bill. In accordance with the amendments, the number of members of the Management Board has been increased and I believe that this is justified and wise in order for representatives of Croatian scientific institutes to have greater participation and more significant participation in the establishment of a strategic plan which represents a key document. However, a very practical and pragmatic question is raised, firstly, whether to adopt a strategic plan as a basic foundation document or select board members. Certainly a certain set of people will make a specific strategic plan that responds to their view, their experience, their scientific interest, their priorities. A second set of people can make a second strategic plan, a third set of people a third strategic plan. The question arises which of these three or N strategic plans is a real choice and an optimal choice that can support those objectives that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has declared as priorities in its Economic Recovery Plan. That is why it seems to me that this process of selecting members of the Management Board and harmonising the definition of the strategic plan must be one iterative process in order to obtain such a strategic plan that is at this time of interest and the priority of Croatian science and Croatian economy and that we can then get people who understand this strategic plan and can fully implement it. If that is not the case, it may be different, but then a strategic plan may be the result of the interests, understanding and priorities of the people sitting on the Management Board. I would not comment on the Foundation's report now, but the programmes and schedules prove it, shows that so far there has been a lack of feeling for the development of a strategic plan that will be consistent with the interests and priorities of both Croatian science and Croatian economy. This proves the allocation of funds without clear strategic objectives and priorities, and therefore the strategic plan of the foundation, I would say, deserves special attention. In line with this strategic plan, the relevant priorities are set out, etc. Keep going. The Executive Director is also an organisational hope to strengthen and dynamic the work of the foundation in the coming period, if, as it writes here, the public tender for a period of 4 years will select a person who will understand very well everything that the foundation should do to have full justification and express the interests and priorities of Croatian science, but also Croatian economy. Article 9 said that the Management Board of the Foundation was obliged to submit every three months to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education a report on the work of the Foundation which is understandable and justified, and once a year to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. So far, the foundation has provided the same report to the Croatian Parliament, and in accordance with that good practice, I think this Article 9 should be modified in a way that the foundation delivers a yearly report on its work and the Croatian Assembly. From all that is included and contained in this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Foundation for Science of the HDZ Club will give full support to the proposal for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57075	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57076	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm probably in the hardest position of all of us in this assembly today. As a scientist, I run a science program in which we have 6 projects, we have very intensive cooperation with colleagues in the United States, Sweden, Czech Republic, Slovenia, France, Germany. And everything was good until a few years ago because I came to my facility once or twice a week and talked to young scientists. Today, when they ask me what will happen to the professors with the money that will be with the financing of the projects, which will be with the equipment, which will be with our travels to those institutes that I, my colleagues and colleagues are working with, I have no answer. I really don't have an answer. We changed the law we're talking about last year, and what did we do from last year to today? My colleagues and colleagues, nothing. We have not changed what we promised and changed the law. Nothing. It seems to me to be the biggest con of the scientific community in the last few decades. Those are hard words, but believe me, that's how I feel. What did we promise to do? We promised that the foundation would become a central independent institution for the public funding of science in the Republic of Croatia. We didn't do anything. We promised to strengthen the foundation in line with national, scientific and technological policy and with the action plan, the 3% action plan. My colleagues and colleagues, we didn't do anything. This action plan is particularly interesting 3%. Since Minister Kraljević seems to have signed the Bologna Process, we promised, so almost ten years ago, that we would gradually increase the issue of science and come to 3% of gross social product. My colleagues and colleagues, we're below 0.9% today. So three more whole three times we would have to increase isolation, and we don't, and we can't do that now. And why can't we do that? My colleagues and colleagues, many years ago, were built across the Croatian sports hall. Then we spent on them how much we spent on 2300 projects in about 50 years counting the current values that we're detaching. For 50 years we could finance science, we could strengthen the economy, strengthen the economy through employment and taxes, then it could only build without the difficulty of that same hall. My colleagues and colleagues, we spend twice as much each year on the peace missions of our soldiers in the world as we spent on science until last year. My colleagues and colleagues, this year 2010 for 2299 scientific projects, we have not singled out a single lip, not a kuna, not a single lip. We should have improved the system of judgment of scientific research, so those who are really worth getting the money get a lot more than those who are not worth it. They need to take that money away, not invest, and turn it from hollow to empty, but into what it really is worth. We didn't make it. We are now proposing a new system of election of board members. I must say that I agree with those colleagues who spoke before me, who said that it was a system that was not good, which would allow needlessly great political interference in science. Furthermore, a change in the foundation of science. Is this the most important task for us right now to change the name of trust, seals, memoranda, all miracles? For what? And finally we propose to call it the Science Foundation. We have the National Science Council, the Science Agency, all the wonders of science, and now another miracle of science. And we rejected the technological development of the name, which is why we founded it seven, eight, nine years ago. Is that why we started it? To transfer exactly new technologies and promote the economy, to base scientific research on that area. That way, in just one detail, I don't agree with the Professor. Let the scientists do whatever they want with the flag. I agree, most of them do. But they must also have a group of applied research according to the need, what you have finally said to the economy, that triangle economy, the institutions of scientific and educational and policy must function within that triangle, meet weekly, negotiate weekly. Unfortunately, we've never done anything here, let alone some significant shift. I don't know if I can get into these details. I think I've said enough. I really think that we colleagues and colleagues, not that we're taking the wrong steps. We are really moving in the wrong direction when it comes to science and technological development. I do not want to prejudge completely the wrong direction and this way of work, but Croatia will find itself in an extremely, extremely difficult position.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57077	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57078	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have called for a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Declaration for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for several reasons. There was a lot of debate on the board, and here we heard at the plenary session. I was particularly interested in a number of new solutions, the more this foundation has worked since 2001, and since 2004 it has been more intensive with programmes and has created new conditions for the introduction of Croatian scientists and programmes into European scientific space. Therefore, I cannot agree with some colleagues, especially now with Mr Doric, who has a bit of a catastrophic debate, because Croatia's goal of joining the European Union is one of the dimensions that we realize in practice and we have the possibility to legally, legitimately realise our ambitions in the field of science. That is why I think that this problem, which is highlighted here, that since 2012, the source of funding can be dried up, that responsible policy will find the funds, and that is how they spoke on the board, and it will have to be strengthened financially in order to continue the programmes. It's just one assumption, and I believe that this news that this law is making is saying that the government is going to solve it. First of all, it seems to me that it is good for a trust that brings more efficiency some new solutions, so it brings some new trustees. The fund must have a structure that manages to the end defined. In these ten years, something less has worked, but it seems to me that the executive director and the scientific committees proposed by this law will make it even more transparent and powerful in solving the problem, and yet the very word of the foundation says that one source of funds is being collected in various ways. We know what the foundation is getting one transparent public dimension of the schedule according to some criteria what is being collected. This particularly regulates this legislative proposal, Article 7, where it is clearly defined what, which are the tasks of the Scientific Committee, so I will just point out that the public hears more about what it is. So, the new scientific committee proposed by this law foresees to do the implementation... the procedures of the proposed projects, including scientific reviews, the proposal to the Management Board of the projects to propose to the Management Board of the new programmes or to adapt to existing programmes, to monitor the implementation of the programme, to monitor financing and scientific research, and to propose the application of scientific outcomes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Each scientific committee referred to in paragraph... The article has five members, two scientists working in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, one of whom is acting as Coordinator of the Scientific Committee, and his rights and obligations will be closer arranged by a special contract, one scientist acting outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia and is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, two scientists operating outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia and are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so that competitiveness is created. [[You don't understand.]] The members of the Scientific Committee shall be appointed by the Management Board of the Foundation by a special decision on the basis of the public tender carried out. More important, Article 9b of this Article, the Executive Director of the Foundation, manages the operation of the Foundation, manages the Foundation’s professional services on his own, and appoints the Foundation’s Management Board. Here's news for me that will dynamic the work of the foundation and I believe these hunches that some point out that by 2012, we could... elections will be settled. [[You don't understand.]] And I would also like to say, that's what my colleague Doric touched, it's a question of the name of the foundation, and yesterday it was debated on the board and it was concluded, and in the experience, a European experience that all countries have a foundation like the Croatian Foundation for Science or Austrian, German, so that's the name, and we've added high education and technological development, and it's been discussed, so we'll see that the ministry accepts it, but we seem that the name of the Croatian Foundation for Science is more appropriate and that European experience, than the National Foundation for Science, and this is put in the central position, because it shows that the most placed in the hierarchy of scientific opportunities for inclusion in the European scientific space. And we know that in other ways scientists are involved in the European and world scientific space and science has no limits. She's free to do that. I support a change of name, and I will not owe it, but conclude that I support the adoption of these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57079	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57080	Dear colleague Šetić, you have said in your debate that you hope that the hunches of some, that in 2012, the sources of the foundation will not be dried up, so that the thesis has been determined by describing the formation of new administrative bodies of the foundation, the formation of scientific committees, the executive director, etc. I would like us all here in the Croatian Parliament to reach agreement and to admit that actually the sources depend on the state budget and that no one else but us here in the Croatian Parliament depends on how much money we will allocate in the state budget for the foundation programmes. And in that sense, I hope that you and your HDZ colleagues will support it, if the government does not support it and does not propose it alone in the state budget, as it has not proposed in recent years, then all those opposition amendments, and I have written them year by year, which require that these millions of kuna funds for a trust that are embarrassingly small for the foundations of this type and this mission from the state budget be increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57081	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57082	Yes, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I totally agree with Representative Lugaric. I think we have enough time to realise this need and that the Government will take care of it, because that would be one programme that is European, which is generally accepted. I am deeply convinced that we will settle this no matter what the recession year and time is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57083	Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I really believed that the adoption of the Foundation Act just over a year and a half ago was the insistence of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to improve and improve the system of science. And it seemed to me that no matter what law, which we proposed a year and a half ago, had some illogicalness and some ambiguity that should be absolutely supported, because the essential intensity of the law was actually very good. And I personally welcomed the emphasis on excellence and accountability in the evaluation of scientific projects and scientists and scientific institutions, i.e. organizations, and this seemed to me in practice in accordance with the one that exists in countries with highly developed scientific activity. Now the question is, was I wrong or was I right? Well, I don't have to answer that question. But this law does seem to be in this year and a half since we actually brought it just a dead letter on paper. And we didn't, that's a fact, operate on it, and we didn't actually carry it out. And unfortunately, it turns out that the scientific public who, at the time when the law was passed, expressed their doubts about the possibility of law enforcement, was actually right. Discussing this law seems to mean being critical and having reasons. And I hope you won't accuse me as Mr. Jarnjak of not loving my country enough because I'm critical. I'm critical because I care and I want things to be better and that some processes are happening faster. And since I'm a scientist myself then I kind of think I care twice. Unfortunately, we can't skip or go around, although we'd probably like it all of us sitting here, if it were possible to do that. The fact is, there hasn't been a new president in the past year, and she's supposed to have one. She should have had it as she should not have allowed some members of the foundation to actually be in an obvious conflict of interest because they are also the heads of the institution. Also, since 01.01.2010, the foundation should have taken over the funding of all of the countries covered by the scientific projects that were supposed to be, we thought, both more selective and competitive. And unfortunately nothing was done on that plan. The question arises whether, in this way, with so much lost time, we can be competitive enough in the European market for science and scientific activities and whether we can ultimately use that syntagm of society based on science at the end. It is very concerned when a sentence like this is found in the reasoning of this law: "increase investment in research and development" or "in 2010 planned to direct most of the state budget funds for scientific projects". He's worried about this sentence. Because despite her, or despite the formal extension of scientific projects, their funding in this year was reduced to an absolute zero. So as long as that is the case, as long as we have such a situation, both colleagues Doric and our colleague Flego spoke of it, we will actually be where we are now. In the field of world science, we, if we exclude some individuals in this country that we can count on the fingers of one hand, we're actually fat at the beginning. So, what kind of situation are we in now? I believe that, no matter how long you've been in the ministry, you've managed in a relatively short time to get acquainted with the situation regarding scientific projects. So the foundation didn't take over the function that we were supposed to, which we gave her by law, took over the funding of the projects, but at the same time it didn't do the ministry. So, we made a decision, the ministry made a decision that required existing scientific projects to be financed for another year, but the leaders of these projects did not receive a contract to extend scientific activity. But what's much worse doesn't even have the money. I don't know if they know colleagues and colleagues here that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in 2010 paid for not a single June for scientific projects for 2010. Yeah, it did, but it paid back 5 months for 2009. So credibility is a little questionable. Just when it comes to scientific projects. Because the cycle, the first cycle of scientific projects, is over. It has been said that it will continue until further notice, so it is said that we will evaluate them, valorize them, and that only the quality will continue to work. So we said it would be until the next competition, and there's no new competition, so there's no competition, and you know it very well. So today, scientists in Croatia have been brought practically into an impossible situation. I can't do science because there's no money for it. How many science projects do we have in the Republic of Croatia today? I think about 2300. So I don't think anyone really expects those 2,000 or 2,300 projects to be financed from the state budget in amounts that amount to several hundred thousand kunas or millions of kunas, all projects. Of course it's not real and it's not possible. It has been said that scientific projects will have some kind of chieftain, and that only the best ones as Italy did 25 years ago, and that the best projects, 15, 20, 30%, will get enough resources to help make our science in the world frameworks of affirmation, but not only that, but that will contribute to the real development that is based on science. And scientific money, that's a special story. I don't know if you know that a young doctor, a completed doctor who therefore studied for six years at the Medical School, then had to wait a year for a traineeship because he wasn't allowed to volunteer, so he finally started a traineeship that lasted a year. So 6 plus a year of waiting 7, plus a traineeship that's 8, let's add at least half a year to that, that's 8.5 years. So, a young doctor who decides on a university career and who starts working as a scientific recruit, for example. There is a personal income of 5100 kuna at the Faculty of Medicine. So it's not even a union basket, is it? It's not even a union basket. And I think that then I have all the rights of this world to be critical and to say that the syntagma of the knowledge society has really become a fleeting society and that it's better to use it as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57085	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ivana Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57086	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, I will try to take a brief look primarily at those of your remarks that are related to these amendments and the additions to the laws for which I thank you. And set this problem perhaps a little less in a certain kind of political different view or political even problems, and a little more in what is today a trend in the EU that Croatia is approaching, which today are economic and political circumstances in this sector and finally what may not be related to this law, but I will also have to highlight the ways in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is funding scientific research here and that it is not so much that Croatia can no longer be called a knowledge country from now on. Let's go to EU level first, here's Mr. Representative Flego and I were in negotiations together and let's see how things are going in this segment right there. So everyone declared the economic crisis that is under one and absolutely all 27 Member States have declared that one of the best ways to get out of the economic crisis is to invest additionally in science and research, because this will trigger economic development, etc., so this is a declarative level. Let us now go to a political level, that is, when various European Commission plans are being adopted, when various strategies are being adopted, etc., and if you look at what has been happening in Brussels lately, you will see that people can agree on this political level. Now let's go to level three, the one on the ground floor, that's the exercise. If it is primarily about documents that are strategic, these are recommendations in 99% of their works, as you know very well, so they can't prescribe implementation and you can really look at the implementation of such strategies at EU level 27 you see that there are huge differences and I here responsibly argue that what is happening in the Republic of Croatia is certainly at the level of many European countries in our economic circumstances, that is under number 1. So, in this context, to observe this Law in a certain way, the further political commitment of this Government that the foundation really works and does its job in the right way, plus the other thing that the HDZ Representatives Club has done several times, is to open up through a change in the governance structure however the possibility that people who will manage this foundation, so far, has not been the case, that the criteria for their choice are not exclusively scientific excellence but that these are people who are aware of the circumstances in which they are located, and with scientific excellence they must possess certain management abilities to raise funds for the development of science. I think it is an extremely important element in this Law because unfortunately it is not in the Republic of Croatia traditionally rooted as it is in other countries of the European Union or if you want the United States and that is something we have first underlined here. I think it's very important. And now very short. The Croatian state of knowledge or the country of knowledge, regardless of the fact that there are certain problems in the financing of science, I remind again that Croatia has been fully participating in the European Union framework programme for research and development since the beginning of the last year... the programme, that Croatia has been fully participating since 2007 in the 7th... programme, that the funds that the state invests on an unprecedented scale and on a grant to these same scientists are progressively increasing, because the proportion of pre-accession funds is reduced by the length of our participation in the... programme, and I would say that no one here can say that these are minor funds. And there's now a problem with our scientist who still can't get those funds back, and unfortunately this country can help them, but it can't take responsibility for them. Not to say that a similar thing is happening at the level of structural funds. And the third thing in making is the law on science that will also prescribe new funding mechanisms and that will again and I think it is very important to give it to the scientific community which is what way they decide to decide on their own and take responsibility among other things and for some of that funding, I think it is also important in general for the strategic development of science in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57087	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57088	Mrs. Mrkonjic, I apologize to you, the only possibility that I can tell you something is to correct an incorrect assumption that you cannot, unfortunately, replicate, is the Rules of Procedure, so I apologize to you for that. Firstly, it is not true that Croatia behaves like other countries, it is true that it behaves as part of the European countries but there are European countries that have taken loans, which have increased money for science and in fact not speak at European Union level but at the level of individual countries because they knew that this was the best way to get out of the crisis. Secondly, as far as the FP7 is concerned, I would remind you that the minister has made a decision to stop co-financing from the Croatian funds FP7 projects, with the decision of the 8th month to stop it from 1. Seven. So much for the Croatian way of working and the fact-based Croatian science advocate, and in the end, Madam Secretary of State, you didn't tell us that you would feed 1,000 people with one bread, or that you would cover what is worth 250 today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57089	It's already written in the Bible. Now we're going to a united debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57090	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation, on Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 572th Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, by the HDZ Representatives Club and by Agent Iron Flego. I would like the representative of Mrs Ivana Mrkonjic to declare the amendments to the first Committee on Education, Amendment 1 to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57091	It is accepted in the modified form, so that it reads: "In the name of the Law on the National Foundation for Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia, National No. 117/01. and 45/09, in Article 1(1) and Article 2(2), the name of the foundation is amended so as to read the Croatian Foundation for Science." The explanation for this is this, the amendment is accepted but in nomotechnical.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57092	I don't need an explanation. Let the Committee express itself whether it agrees with your statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57093	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57094	Your statement, Madam Secretary of State, has been accepted. We have amendment 2 to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57095	It is also accepted in the modified form, so that it reads: "Article 2 paragraph 3 is amended and the Foundation headquarters is in Zagreb. The following paragraph 3 is added: the general act of the Foundation will arrange the establishment and the part-round of the Office for the performance of professional and administrative tasks for the purposes of the Foundation and the present paragraph 4 becomes paragraph 5."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57096	The chairman of the Committee, Mr. Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57097	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57098	The State Secretary's statement is accepted. Amendment 3 to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57099	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57100	This amendment has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the bill. We have a Club of Representatives of the HDZ amendment on Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57101	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57102	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Mr. Iron Flege's representative, as referred to in Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57103	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57104	Tell me why. You have to say something, at least a little why.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57105	At technical level, we haven't received an official exact statement of that amendment, so it would be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57106	Mr. Flego has the word, you have not been accepted this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57107	I didn't hear why he wasn't accepted, I want to say why he should be accepted. Therefore, Article 5 assumes that the Croatian Employers' Association was given to the Management Board of its representative's Foundation. We agree that employers have their representative at the Management Board of the Foundation, but we think that much is too tight of more than 10 employers' associations to only one employers' association. I therefore ask that an amendment be adopted, so that a representative of Croatian employers enter the Management Board of the Foundation, not just a representative of one of these associations. So please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57108	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much to the secretary of state. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. Please be patient. There's nothing on the board here. Let's be patient for a little while. You got it. Please, let's get involved and vote on the final bill that we are, about the National Foundation, etc. Let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 80 votes for, 2 abstentions and 42 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57109	We are now going to a united discussion - Report on the implementation of the state pedagogical standard of pre-school education, from 10 June 2008 to 31 December 2009, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia - Report on the implementation of the State pedagogical standard of primary education and education system, from 10 June 2008 to 31 December 2009, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia - Report on the implementation of the state pedagogical system of secondary education and education, in the period from 10 June to 31 December 2009, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia is the Proposer, who submitted this report on the basis of the relevant articles of the State pedagogical standard of pre-school education and education, the State pedagogical standard of primary education and education, and the State pedagogical standard of secondary education system of secondary education. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Sports, Ms Diana Vrcan will further explain all three of these reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. The implementation of certain provisions of the State Pedagogical Standard for all three levels of education and education shall be prescribed in accordance with the envisaged performance coefficients taken as the reporting principle. Reports were made on the basis of the data obtained from the founders and from the Office of State Administration, data from the common register of school institutions and e-mothers were used. We're going in a row, preschool education. According to the performance coefficient, the criteria provided for were the size of a kindergarten with regard to the number of children educational groups where the coefficient was that the realization goes by adopting standards. 83.26% of kindergartens have less than 340 children, which is optimal, such as 11.21 kindergartens between 340 and 600 children, which is also rated by the optimal size of children's kindergartens with branches. Health care and nutrition measures in kindergartens are implemented in all kindergartens, in part or in full, depending on whether a senior nurse who is head of a medical programme is employed in kindergartens, or whether children's kindergartens are visited by health care teams, which nevertheless shows that she is taking care of children's health. As regards the cost of accommodation in kindergartens, significant differences have been shown and resulting from the financing or investment of the founders’ funds or co-financing in the formation of the pre-school price per child. In fact, parents in most kindergartens participate in financing accommodations of 40% of the economic price, in some mid-50s, in some urban and private kindergartens there is no co-financing. The quality system of pre-school education and education refers predominantly to self-evaluation and professional trainings are organised for this purpose. As regards the criteria relating to the performance coefficient, 1 first measured the number of children in the educational group. Unfortunately, requests for accommodation of children in kindergarten are greater than spatial possibilities. The founders of kindergartens failed to increase the accommodation capacity and we are not satisfied with this measure, so the extension for the implementation of the measures is also proposed in changes to the national pedagogical standard. The number of educators per educational group, in 6 counties this standard is estimated above 90%, in 11 between 60 and 80%, while others are considered not to meet the conditions. The number of expert associates, given the number of educational groups according to indicators obtained from the field, is still not fully in line with the provisions of the standards. So we see the reasons, and the only improvement we see is if financial conditions are created in the meantime for their employment. The number of senior nurses per educational group can only be said that more than 50% of preschool institutions fully meet this standard in Zagreb, i.e. Zagreb County, while the rest of the county is unfortunately less data. So we also have a County of Međimurje where 90% of preschools don't employ a senior nurse according to this standard. Secretarys, accounting managers in kindergarten as well as the number of other workers partially meet these criteria because there are still a large number of smaller kindergartens where they are actually associated with secretarial and accounting tasks performed by city and municipal services. As for the number of workers working on food affairs, maintaining cleanliness, taking into account the data provided, we can conclude that a large number of kindergartens fully or partially meet the standards of the number of workers in these jobs. In basic education, the first criterion refers to the coefficient of 0, a network of primary schools that we do not show with great satisfaction. Namely, the deadlines for drawing up the proposal for a network were prescribed and prescribed in Articles 161 and 162. Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. We are not satisfied with the founders who are prolonging the adoption of a network of schools and we have not received all the reports. As for the standard for the structure of the school, it is organized in Croatian schools in parent and regional schools. The most regional schools are in Split-Dalmatia, Osijek-Baranja County, at least in the City of Zagreb. The optimal size of a school facility. The primary schools in the Republic of Croatia vary in size and number of classrooms so that we have schools with very few students, from 20 to 1600. Working shifts. In the 2008/2009 school year. 328 of the 871 elementary school worked in one shift. We have 14 counties where there are no schools in three shifts, and most of the schools that work in one shift are in the Primorje-Gorski County. As far as teaching is concerned, education organisations outside the school space, class departments, we believe that these criteria are realised, especially class departments. That measure shall be implemented gradually, and class departments of the first and second classes in all counties shall be set up with a maximum of 28 students, meaning in accordance with the standard provision. It is the same with class departments with a special programme, which is respected by combined grade departments. The number of students in the educational group varies depending on the implementation of the course, additional, supplementary classes, electoral classes, mostly foreign languages and religions. In the professional training that is being accomplished regularly, we have a large number of trainings. Those who do not keep data are by individual persons, except training teachers to work on a computer where a certificate is obtained by each person and this ECDL licence certificate. As regards the progress of teachers and professional associates, in particular since 2004, the ministry has recorded the ongoing achievement, training, training of other workers in 82% of primary schools, which depends on the annual plan and the primary school programme and on the financial resources. The following are the criteria for the premises and equipment of the school. These are the criteria applied in all newly built schools, although the construction of schools began before the standard was adopted. Schools with difficult working conditions are achieved in accordance with all strategies because this is specific for schools on islands, mountain-mounted and poorly connected areas. We also assess the education and education of students in art programs. The education and education of students in the language and letter of national minorities is achieved according to all regulations, laws and standards. As for the education of the gifted, programs for the gifted are being implemented in all counties. The ministry is funding a permanent project of association to work with gifted students to whom both children and teachers apply. The education and education of students with disabilities has been very appropriate in recent years, especially the principle of inclusion and the principle of integration applied in our system. The education and education of students in a health institution and teaching in the house is fully accomplished. The ministry has responded to every student's request. Student transport, student diet. The transport is fully accomplished, the diet of students is organized in 84% of primary schools by preparing food at school or by delivering out of school. The textbooks were free for all students. The swimming and cycling lesson is something that we received from the reports and you could see the details of everything in the tables shown. However, this is the content we intend to move to the school curricula even though we are somewhat satisfied that this lesson has been achieved, especially the swimming lesson according to our data even to 80% of schools. The school is open to students during their vacations is open to only half the schools, which means that they are not fully realized, unlike the gyms, scientific and other research that are being conducted entirely. As for the quality system of primary education, unimplemented and state-run graduation, national exams, training is regularly conducted for self-evaluation and self-evaluation. Because for secondary education report the same but I'm going to point out something that makes a difference. This is the analysis of the reports received, which shows that most of the measures of this national pedagogical standard for secondary education have been achieved because the performance coefficient was, refer to zero or in line with the planned one, and what is seen as a problem or the need to amend certain provisions, these are the following. The first thing that has not been achieved is that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has failed, or has not approved experts in maintaining computer information equipment, jobs have not been established and therefore these jobs do not belong to other tasks arising from the nature and scope of educational work. Also criteria for space and equipment in high school. The standard lays down basic criteria for the implementation of gymnasium education programmes i.e. art programs and in vocational schools, which are realized as criteria for building new schools. All criteria need to be reviewed, to propose new criteria that would be appropriate to the economic situation and the possibilities of the state budget, and that is, in fact, the proposal in our amendments. And the next amendment is also non-teaching staff, which is proposed with a new standard because of the possibility of prescribing a special standard. That'll be all. We stand at your disposal for discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57111	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate and it's in the clubs first. For the HDZ club, respected representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57112	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to say that the report on the implementation of the state pedagogical standard of preschool education and education, primary school system and high school education is ahead of us and that this is the first time we have such a report at all. So we may not have to be critical to the end, but what's important is that we get transparently and clearly the standards that are being implemented, which are in life and I think that these data can somehow bring us closer professionally and politically I would say because these are facts. And here you can see exactly what we can do, how much, by what dynamics, because the coefficients of feasibility are determined here. And that is why I want to commend this effort that has been made and the initiative to do so, and I believe that the following years these reports will be even more interesting and that some of the discussions that we sometimes have will be able to stay at this professional level of analysis and awareness. There's something else I want to say. This is important for the state level, but it is very important for the founders too, I will say for local administration and self-government, and here we have 54 founders of kindergartens, primary schools, in kindergartens and high schools. Why does it matter? Because it is important to commend a series of founders who allocate, or single out, even more resources than is necessary. But let it be a practice because in here you get to read, I don't have that much time that some counties are a little behind even about diet, about some other things and it can be a role model to them as someone else solves. That seems useful to me from these public notices. I know, for example, that the city of Buzet in Istria, the city of Rijeka, and even a series of other Virovitica, Varazdin, is being allocated a great deal of funds perhaps more than I would like to have if I didn't mind, perhaps I didn't point out everything. But for some I've seen in practice as a secretary of state, and I see that it continues here. I want to praise this in principle in the opening part because it seems to me that it is good and it can be an incentive for everyone to see how much they stand out and what they have, as much as they can because the state level gives some funding, but local administration and self-government, or founders can do even more. I know it's not hard, I know it's very hard to even up all of this in education, but somehow the same chance is the constant of our desires that in all of our country there are equal chances for students who want to achieve this education service, that they can develop and achieve their result. Since the debate is united, there is something else I want to say here that I have noticed that I am very pleased, that one goal from the development plan for education and education has been achieved, which is that it will cover preschool children, which means that in kindergartens it will increase to 60%. So it's almost done because we came to 59% before time. That's what I want to say, because that's exactly what the state level is and the founders of local administration and self-government, and it should certainly be noticed because it seems to me to be the biggest step here we've had since 2009, or since this report was submitted. This is for every commendation, and what should be said is that given the debate that follows after this, the ministry has recognised some weaknesses and that the coefficients are being extended, or the period when certain standards will be realised, so I want to say because of our public that these criteria are being implemented through four levels of time when they will be realized. To zero immediately, what was immediately implemented is for what there are conditions. K1 is by the end of 2010. K2 by the end of 2012, K3 by the end of 2017 and K performance coefficient four to 2022. Therefore, when it comes to standards and pedagogical standards, then it is necessary to look at it for a little longer periods and some things cannot be reconciled immediately. This will be later in the debate, as some deadlines for the realization of some standards are just moving away as a standard of education. Since time will pass quickly I want to comment here and some findings, some results in basic education. Criteria for setting up network schools in the area of counties, article... Standards are prescribed criteria for the school network. [[You don't understand.]] The deadlines for drawing up the proposal for a network are set out in Article 161, 162. Law on education and education in primary and secondary education. A year from the day of entry into force. These criteria are not met for the reason that the founders did not submit a proposal to the Ministry for a network of schools, although the Law on Education and Education of Primary and High Schools required them to do so. What am I trying to say here? This is one serious problem that we have discussed before, so there needs to be enough patience here, the state prescribes a standard and gives one framework, but the founders are there about the school network, how it will organise the system, I think there should be more to the functional principle where there is one child that must be a school, and what its form is, it is a matter of organization, and I think that Croatia is applying, and therefore the founders must give themselves more effort to functionally organise that service to their citizens where they are and I think it should be implemented in the next period, there are deadlines. Then the criteria for forming a primary school as a public institution for forming a regional school and in setting up a dislocated elementary school facility, these criteria are met in all counties in accordance with regulations and provisions. The criteria for the number of grade primary school departments as an independent institution, you know that this is always a very current topic, these criteria vary in certain counties, due to inequality, number of children. Therefore, it is the subject that always affects and debates a lot. The criteria for the number of students in the classroom and educational group have been met in accordance with the rules on regular, special and artistic schools. The criteria for permanent professional training, the promotion of directors, teachers and professional associates and training criteria for other workers, these standards in schools are implemented in accordance with regulations and provisions that are of great importance for the sake of dynamics, the calls of teachers, professional co-workers and school staff, which is an extremely important dimension, and I think that with professional training in Croatia, it is beautifully progressing that this is one place where it grows. The criteria for space and equipment in elementary school, it is also very important, which is categorized and defined and these criteria apply in all newly built schools, although the construction of schools began before the standard was adopted. Here is also a good indicator, so to respect the standard, what has been passed, and that those who build schools, you know that I do not now repeat how schools are built in the Republic of Croatia, that standards are respected. That's very important. And to apply the criteria. Then the criteria for special educational needs in primary education are fulfilled in accordance with the prescribed provisions, which makes me personally happy. The standards of the student standard. The criteria are partially realised, and there are differences between the counties. I'll read this to see how stimulating this can be. For example, the report shows that the founders of schools in six counties Ličko-senjska, Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska, Vukovar-Srijemska and Split-Dalmatia, and Dubrovnik-Neretvanska did not provide a diet for more students, because schools lack school kitchens or dining rooms whose coefficient of performance is K4, this means until 2022. On the basis of the above, it is necessary to postpone the coefficients of the student's diet with the written request of the founders of this ministry, and subject to the obligation to determine the time limit of implementation, i.e. by the end of 2012. Now, here's an indicator of how this particular report can help some speed up, maybe because of laziness, because of some composure, they haven't solved something that can be solved because it's not so expensive. Therefore, further criteria for the school gym and for the school where research is carried out have been achieved in accordance with the prescribed provisions, then the system of quality of primary education, these criteria are implemented in accordance with the prescribed provisions, i.e. by introducing only evaluations, and in particular with the external evaluation carried out by the national external evaluation and education centre. It's the same activity that's been growing enormously in recent years, and it's shaped our system according to our final appearance. I also commend this. Finally, I would like to say one more thing about the high school system, where I have also studied this report on the implementation of the state pedagogical standard of the secondary education and education system, from 10 June 2008 to 31 December 2009. It shows that most of the criteria have been met, so it could be pointed out that the criteria from the zero coefficient, i.e. those that came into force immediately after the standard was adopted, are achieved with satisfactory dynamics. In particular, this relates to the criteria for the number of students in classrooms, from 24 to 28, the equipment of secondary school and dormitory services, the basis of standards is to successfully achieve the integration of students with difficulty in regular classrooms, with funds for the transport costs of students with difficulties and the increased cost of teaching material being provided for each year in the national budget. The education and education of students in the letter and language of national minorities is successfully achieved in the secondary schools of the Republic of Croatia, according to one of the three models established by agreement with representatives of national minorities. The establishment of classrooms in secondary schools shall be subject to the criteria prescribed for the education of pupils in areas with difficult working conditions, and to students attending schools on islands and in areas of special state care. As regards the criteria for building, equipment and building up existing secondary schools in view of the changed conditions for economic growth and development during 2008 and 2009, according to data provided to the ministry by the founders, they have invested in new projects from decentralised state budgets and source funds. So it should be said that total founders invested 138, almost 139 million kuna, of which 90 million from decentralised funds, and 20 million from their own resources from other sources. And from other sources another 28.9 million, which tells and gives one picture in from kindergarten to the end of high school what the standards in our system are realized. Finally, I can say that the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this report, warns that it is the first and that its benefit... There will be only one indicator, transparent, public, and implementation of standards in Croatian education. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57113	Thank you very much. Now for the SDP club, a respected representative, Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57114	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Finally, we have reports on the implementation of state pedagogical standards, we expected from the SDP, and I have to admit, we have been having a lot of trouble getting these reports to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. This one was expected in 2008 and somewhere in early or mid-2009, we waited a year, but it was a good thing we finally welcomed them. And now perhaps unlike colleagues, Šetić, just because it is the first reports, we think that this debate is very important because it will show and actually say what standard these reports will be in the future. What, colleagues and colleagues, was the idea of pedagogical standards, and why are they even being adopted? The idea is, in fact, to prescribe pedagogical standards for the conditions in which education and education takes place, regardless of where all children go to school, in the center of Zagreb, somewhere on an island or somewhere in Slavonia have the same conditions, that is to say, they have the same opportunities to achieve a good result. It was an idea, and it's the thought of a guide to pedagogical standards. What's the main problem in all three reports is that we from the SDP expected that it would give a detailed and precise insight into the state of our kindergartens, primary and secondary schools that it would be a sort of, so to speak, a blood count of our education system. And not to be able, depending on the position, to praise how good we have done or to criticize why something has not been done, but to know what needs to be done in the future so that the quality of education is better and to ensure that all children in Croatia go to school and kindergarten on equal terms because we cannot test them at the end of the year or at the end of high school with the same exam, so state graduation, and that we have not previously allowed them to school in the same conditions. And in that sense, these reports are actually missing. In turn, as regards the report on the implementation of the pedagogical standard of preschool education and education, it is the most complete and best of these three reports. What is the problem in it, and everyone else, the report finds some things that have not been implemented, and they should have been implemented because they have a coefficient of 0, so it's already been almost another school year or a pedagogical year, but it doesn't offer suggestions of action why or the answers to why it happened, or what we're going to do to change the situation. For example, it says in the report that we have 37 kindergartens where we have more than 600 children, and then subsequently, we'll see at the next point in changing standards, they're actually asked to break some kindergartens into smaller ones. Which is just the opposite of what we're looking for in elementary school where some small schools we want to round up, they're going to lose their status. There are some shocking data in this report, for example in 669 kindergartens we have a total of 212 senior nurses. This may seem convenient, but when you share it with the number of children, it turns out that without preschooling a nurse, we have 1244 children. One nurse in a kindergarten of 1244 children. For example, it is said and is a quote from the ministry's report, I quote: "in most kindergartens whose founders the number of children in groups does not meet the standards of '83 and new standards." So, the ministry admits that not only have we not met these new ones but also those from almost 20 years or 30 years ago are not working, and it is not said what should be done to make them come true. Further quote: "most kindergartens do not have a sufficient number of professional associates/partners". Then he says somewhere is a very bad situation and the Virovitica-Podravska County is apostrophe where 89% of kindergartens do not have any expert associates. 89% of kindergartens. Here, of course, and on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to commend the report and what Madam Secretary of State of the City of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County have indeed a good standard. What is the other problem with these reports other than the finding of some problems in the education system without answers and solutions is what is missing. For us information about the coverage of children in kindergartens that we have, we've heard here already, 58% of children mean little if we don't really know what programs these kids are going to. So, here's a missing program review. How many five hours do we have, how many 10-hour programs do we have? What programs offer that extended stay for the children of parents who are already working for 12 and more hours a day? We lack to be told what programs we spend in kindergartens for gifted children, what programs we implement for children with developmental difficulties. We lack such a fulfillment of spatial and technical conditions here. When the standard was passed, there was a lot of talk about how the classrooms and kindergarten groups would now have air conditioning. How many of our schools have air conditioning? There is therefore no information on this nor on any other criterion from spatial and technical conditions. There's no fulfillment of the space standard. Are those rooms where those kids in kindergartens have a good square? Is there a lot of room or are they sitting on each other's heads? What's the fulfillment of the hygiene and technical laws? There's not a single dictionary. Also, and no less important, there is no and the report does not speak at all about meeting the criteria for equipment and doactic material. What kind of do we teach kids about? Are we getting some cheap plastic toys that may be for children and dangerous or are we still dealing with procurement that is more appropriate? As regards the Reports of the Standards of the primary school system of education and education, it is similar. So in one part of the report is incomplete. For example, in the information offered they are not complete. For example. We don't have the data as much as in schools as we have the average grade departments. He's got a lot of kids, but he doesn't have as many class departments. We don't have any information on the professional training of teachers, we don't have any data on the state of cabinets and equipment, we don't have any data on how many schools there are no sports halls. We have no record of how many kids are traveling to school. Also, there are no data on the number of teachers and professional associates. There are no data on the fulfilment of the student load criteria by satin, the fulfillment of the criteria for spaces and equipment, and again these hygiene and technical requirements. There are no data in the report, and there are very clearly defined criteria in pedagogical standards, and these are all zeroes in your coefficients. Also, this report on the primary school system finds a situation that should not have been such that standards have been implemented and still does not provide an answer to how this changes. Despite the declared policy that schools should work on one shift, we remember the former minister who spoke now will be all in one shift, we work on 328 of the 871 schools in one shift, and even in 7 counties we have schools working on 3 shifts. Even 7 counties in which schools work in 3 shifts and in which case the worst situation is in the City of Zagreb and Split-Dalmatia County. It is then stated in the report that the provisions on the number of students are applied gradually i.e. only first and second grade departments meet standards even though the standard obliges everything. By the way, this thing with the number of kids in the classrooms, I have to admit it's pretty confusing for people on the ground, because in standard, the maximum number of students is 28, optimally 24, at the beginning of June, the minister passed a rule that says the maximum number of students is 30, and can go to 32 if there's only one parallel. I don't know what document you need to apply, the pedagogical standards passed by the Parliament or the regulation signed by the minister. And in standard changes, we have some other numbers again. It is also concluded that, due to limited financial resources, the professional training of teachers has not been implemented as it should be implemented. Limited funding was created because of the Ministry's proposal in the state budget where the funds for the professional training of teachers were significantly cut, we talked about it when the state budget was being adopted. I also agree to quote: "Most schools highlight the problem of lack of funds and assistance they need for teaching" and I stop here, it is a terrible Madam Secretary of State problem, if most schools find that there are not enough help and resources to achieve teaching and achieving the objectives of the programme. Then there is a lack of space, hall, kitchen, dining room, but we don't have a single number. What was quite shocking for me to read in this report was the recognition of the Ministry of Science of Education and Sports that despite the lack of normative, i.e. the sublegal act for the construction and equipment of schools had been brought into line with the standard and then they did not even issue permits on ideal or architectural projects of schools I quote led by the reasons of optimal use of public money. The situation drove most of the mayors who wanted to build new schools crazy. It has a pedagogical standard, a document adopted by the Croatian Parliament that clearly prescribes standards. They hire an architectural office, they draw a school, they have funds, a lot of money from the World Bank's loan has failed because of it, they give this idea project to the ministry's consent, and then the Ministry either does not say anything for years. Because they say we have our own tables, you fuck the pedagogical standard adopted by the Parliament, and we'll work on our tables. And the Ministry admits it. That she simply did not respect the document brought by Parliament. It's shocking that 15% of schools don't have a diet for students, that's what we're talking about in primary school. Children mean 15% of our students are sentenced to shops and bakerys across the street from school, it's an unhealthy diet, which then says a lot about the thickness among children who generate much greater public health problems. And here we simply, you know what our solution is, in the next point we'll discuss it, postpone the application of that standard to 2017, we don't care that 15% of children don't have a hot meal at school. Also, although it had to be during school holidays, the report found that 45% of schools had not organised activities and everyone had to. The worst of these reports is perhaps the most incomplete report on the implementation of the standards of the secondary education system, it is indeed incomplete, there are a number of key data missing. We, for example, do not have the size of schools by the number of students, and that is quite important, which is the criterion for determining whether a school is parent or regional, which we discussed earlier today. Also, to see if certain standards were met. There are also no data on fulfillment, many standards and standards, such as the number of teachers, size criteria, the transportation of students, we do not know how many students we have, and for example, we should know from this report. We don't have, for example, how we're equipped in cabinet schools, how in vocational schools we're equipped with workshops, how we're equipped with classrooms for practical teaching. We have no record of halls, specialized classrooms, anything like that. In the very finding of the situation, in the part where there is data, even though I say here incomplete then questionable conclusions, the following is determined. In two counties of Požega-Slavonski and Međimurje, we had an average number of children in high school programmes 30. So 30 children in the class on average, although the obligation of standard is to have a maximum of 28 children optimally 24. There is no information about health care professionals and student homes, such as those on education rehabilitation profiles in secondary schools, we have how many educators, how many psychologists, but we do not have any information about these experts. As far as this report is concerned, those in our schools don't exist. Although the strangerard for professional associates therefore pedagogicals and psychologists are defined in relation to the number of students, we are given data in the county, not even in the schools, but say how many in which county there is. And there's nowhere in which county there's a school that then you can sort of deducate it. So it's very difficult to draw conclusions, but there's still something that can be drawn. For example, we have a total of 9 educators in Zagreb's dormitories. Who were assigned to the 1800 students of the first grade alone, which means that 200 students go to a educator. Standard says it has to be 80 to 100. The criteria for space and equipment apply only to new schools, although it is concluded that it had to be for everyone. Many schools continue to work on two shifts, although this must not be so, or, for example, the Ministry of Citation has not approved a single position of computer maintenance experts and IT equipment because the rule on the norm that the Minister of this document brings is not the minister of the same, etc. They say that, we didn't hire it, no one in that profile school has an employee because we didn't bring a rule that would allow that employment, and that's what the Ministry had to do. For example, it says all the criteria for space and equipment need to be reviewed and new criteria proposed to me it somehow seems to us from the SDP that this is more about an apology for inaction. Because both the second and third reports are incomplete, although I repeat preschool at least, then primary, and secondaryly the most incomplete but global reports are incomplete, as the reports find many non-implementation of the mandatory standards of those with zero coefficients, and even admit that the Ministry of Sublegal Acts or Inaction violates the provisions of the Standard adopted by the Croatian Parliament, this is neither the first nor the third Report can receive support from the SDP Club, but it is much more important that this may be in some way an indicator and ministry but also some units of local self-government that they have to take care of the standard in their schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57115	Thank you very much. One correction to the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mrs. Advocacy said that school institutions and kindergartens lack programs, lack technical conditions, lack air conditioning, even lacks a lot of things. However, there are no schools and kindergartens in those areas of the city of Zagreb. Don't laugh, you're a representative of the City of Zagreb as I am, the City of Zagreb has been running for 11 years and there are no kindergartens in Brezovica with 12 and a half thousand inhabitants. Schools are more than 150 years old, more specifically, colleagues Lugarić come to Cupinec Kraljec, you have elementary school until 4th grade, the ceiling is made of clay and cane. Who's responsible for that? Who's responsible for that? The city of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb headed by the SDP, 11 years of government. And you, Mrs. Anticevic, could come to my area which has remained completely natural because it rules the SDP city of Zagreb, but in my area it does not yet rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57117	Thank you very much. Time's up. Thank you very much. ... This was almost a perfect replica, but... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, all right, let's go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57118	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Article 209 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. I really don't know why Mrs. Šolić abuses the time needed to correct the incorrect allegations and instead corrects the incorrect allegations, speaks as a replica, and I ask that for this reason all MPs who act in such a way by recommending we introduce order at the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57119	Okay, I think in these hours it's best to stop here as far as the Rules of Procedure's injuries are concerned. And to continue the exposure on behalf of the clubs. Next up is the HSS club, respected representative Boris Klemenic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will start with one finding, which is that the political wishes and wills for reforms in all areas of education in the Republic of Croatia are absolutely not missing. However, many of these reforms are formally accepted, and some are in practice not enough. We have declared ourselves a society and knowledge and started a comprehensive reform of primary and secondary education, the construction of schools, the employment of teacher staff, the introduction of new programmes such as NOS, pedagogical standards, national exams to evaluate the quality of schools, state graduates, analysis and adaptation of vocational schools of the labour market. We introduced the Bologna Process to universities, we passed the Law on Lifelong Learning, and we emphasized its necessity. It is also these days that a project of electronic enrolment is being tested in practice in colleges which, with some minor shortcomings, shows very good results and we believe that it has passed the exam. These are all positive trends and are constantly working on their application in practice. Pedagogical standard for preschool age, primary and secondary schools that need to establish basic standards on the arrangement of kindergartens, classrooms, number of students in departments, school equipment, required number of teachers, professional associates, etc. It was adopted in May 2008 after 10 years of preparation and took effect in June that same year. It aims to improve and even activities on a uniform basis with even criteria. The national pedagogical standard lays down standards for ensuring uniform working conditions in educational institutions, but since its implementation requires large financial resources by some estimates, they will not be fully implemented until 2020 or 2025. In pedagogical 2008/2009. The year in the Republic of Croatia in pre-school education and education system was 669 kindergartens that conducted educational work with children of early and pre-school age in 1582 buildings. The report on the implementation of the state pedagogical standard states that the pedagogical standard also established standards for the network of schools and that the founders of primary schools of the county and the City of Zagreb, cities and legal and physical persons. It was stated that basic school programmes were implemented in 957 primary schools in the ministry system and that cities and counties were founders of 860 primary schools under a regular or special programme and that natural and legal persons were founders of 11 private primary schools. The course is organized in the primary and regional schools which are the highest in Split-Dalmatia, 122 and Osijek-Baranja County 107 and at least in the City of Zagreb. Schools vary in size and number of students, and the average number of elementary school students is 442. 73 schools of 871 had fewer than 100 students in the observed period, and the largest share of such small schools is in Licko-Senj County, which is understandable given the poor population of the area itself. The report further lists data on work in shifts, and the privilege of working in one shift was 328 schools, the largest number in the Primorje-Gorski County, while in Split-Dalmatia County the highest schools in three shifts. It is known that the insistence and the idea of moving from two-way and three-way work to one-way work, however it is also known that a certain material and financial means should be singled out for this system and to attract a teacher's and professor's staff. According to the information provided, professional training is carried out at 851 schools. The Agency for Education and Education held 947 expert meetings attended by 46 thousand 657 participants. In addition, information descriptors are systematically conducted for the sake of faster progress in the information society and 13 thousand 356 teachers have passed courses in the period from 2005 to 2009 for which they received a certificate or a European computer degree as a certificate. From the table attached you can see the most active participants in Sibenik-Kninska, then in Karlovac, Požeko-Slavon County and the City of Zagreb. The progress of teachers and professional associates who were promoted to mentoring during the 1051 observed period should also be mentioned. Over the past period, 7 primary schools have also been built, meeting the criteria according to the prescribed standard and presenting accurate data on the construction, construction and reconstruction of school facilities for the Osijek-Baranja County area. We are also familiar with the state of schools that work with difficult working conditions, where schools on islands are thought of, in mountain-mounted and poorly connected areas and in areas of special state concern. Of the 43 island home schools 15 are located in the Split-Dalmatia County area, and of 79 island district schools the largest part of them, as much as 21 is in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County area. Of the 48 elementary parent schools with the status of mountain-mountain school, 16 of them are in Split-Dalmatia County, and 164 primary schools and 291 primary schools are located in special care areas. In addition to these data, it should be said that many of these schools also face the problem of labour, as some of these schools are unable to hire teachers with the appropriate type and level of education, and in such cases persons of inadequate qualifications are employed. The report also provides data on the education of students of national minorities, covering a total of 6828 pupils in 110 primary schools with a total of 732 teachers, which should be noted that educational groups are formed for them and for fewer students than the number of students prescribed for educational groups in Croatian. In order to promote donation, the ministry provides funding for projects designed for such students, and special programmes for gifted children are being implemented in all counties at an additional level and are being implemented in 59% of schools where there is a need. But at the same time, he also takes care of children with developmental difficulties and of children with chronic diseases who are included in school according to the tailored programme and special conditions. As the report shows, between 150 and 200 schools have too few students to maintain parent school status. Despite the small number of school students with the necessary teaching and technical ability to hire and the director, the secretary, the accountant, which is in the current situation irrational. It should be noted that in the primary school system of 43,000 employees there are administrative technical staff while in secondary schools of 24000 employees about 20% administrative staff. Therefore, the re-use of primary parent schools in the field schools would lose the need for such jobs, which would also contribute to significant savings and rationalisation. When it comes to high school, there are also absurd situations, so in one county, three secondary schools with the same programs that have failed to meet for years are obviously due to the poor interest of students, and yet on the other side of a school cry for professional staff, computer maintenance and IT equipment, because the rule on teachers' working standards in a high school institution has not established such jobs. Following an insight into the reports, it has been evident that a major shift has been made over the past years and that a large number of measures are being implemented, as planned. But also some criteria are not met or need to be changed for several reasons. In view of the inability to implement in certain segments, due to financial, material and human limitations, the pedagogical standard should be reviewed and brought into line with the current situation with the objective of a more rational and efficient availability of funds intended for education. And after all that's been said, one more note. The HSS Club believes that the reports in question are of quality, and that they give an objective and complete picture of the situation in the educational system of the Republic of Croatia and as such our club will accept these reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57121	Thank you very much. The last registered club is the HNS club, HSU on behalf of the club the respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57122	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try not to repeat one single sentence of what's been said so far, and I'll start with two questions. First of all, I'd like to ask all of us what the state's pedagogue standard is for? That's the basic question why we're here today. A colleague, Lugaric, has defined the state pedagogical standard perfectly. I won't say it again. The second question is what are parliamentary deputies for when it comes to state pedagogical standards. Well, we haven't touched that yet, so I'd like to have some fun with that. I thought we'd meet here today and talk about what's missing in our education system, where it's missing, in which schools, in which cities, in which counties, why it's missing and how colleagues and colleagues correct it. I have carefully passed these reports, and I have not found out almost any of what I would specifically be talking about, specifically not used, but a specific case of interest. I don't know what kind of personnel it is, teaching staffs are missing. I don't know. All I heard was the secretary of state. He mentioned several profiles. I don't know if that's all. What are the weakest equipped schools? In Kastav, in Vinkovci, Benkovec. I don't know. What are schools that lack space so we can help them with rebalances or budgets to allow them to build one wing. I don't know where they're missing them. Then, given the amendments to the law last year, I wonder if there are difficulties now with the transportation of students when it comes to high school students. Is there a problem with their housing in homes because we no longer co-finance? Is there a problem with textbooks? They're not free anymore. Is there a eating problem? All I know is that every sixth school, I don't think a basic diet is organized. What's every sixth school? In what municipalities? What county? Then I'm interested in adding to this story, it wouldn't be a waste if we had, and that's how happy employers are with the product of high school, with the knowledge and skills of our students when they finish high school and when they're employed. How many of these students remain unemployed? Do we even educate the profiles needed by the Croatian economy? Then I tried to compare all these reports a little bit and what was proposed to be done with the DPS change, and then I was surprised with a series of data. The number of high schools in one document says 425. There's 407 in the second time I've dialed it up. If the ministry doesn't know how many high school, elementary schools and kindergartens we have and what is the state of every kindergarten and school in this country, then I'm asking you who should know. Who should know?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57123	Thank you very much. And now individual debates. First respected representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57124	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will, after such black discussions on these reports on the implementation of the state pedagogical standards of primary and secondary school and preschool education, still welcome these reports because they show not only that we respect the provisions of the ministry, i.e. the government respects the legal provisions, which is that it submits to the annual Croatian Assembly a report on the implementation of these standards, and therefore more wonders if today and in the debate on the law and these standards we stressed that the laws and standards had been passed in 2008 in May, how could the report on the implementation of these standards could have been expected in early 2009, for those measures prescribed to be met immediately. How to make these reports more complete, if the founders are legally obliged to take care of pre-school care, it is pre-school as a whole, almost in the jurisdiction of local and regional self-government units, in the case of secondary and primary education we know that decentralised functions, and how it can happen that the legal obligation to deliver proposals and networks of schools is not delivered. So I'm asking the secretary of state, here in the report we saw that the government, that the ministry gave the deadline by the end of June 30th of this year, so I'm asking if those who didn't, did they deliver? What about those founders who didn't provide the full data requested by the ministry, so that these materials we have today, these reports would be complete? Should we also put it into the fundamental law and into standards that they are also bound by founders. And speaking of founders, I'm asking the question of what the Municipality of Kršan is doing, let me not know maybe, but I do know that the founders of the primary schools of the unit of local and regional, or regional self-government and 35 cities, including the municipality of Kršan, but here in the report delivered that the municipality of Krsan fulfilled its obligation and delivered this report by October 2009. Let me answer something my colleague Doric said. I also agree that on the basis of these reports, it would be very good for the Ministry to have a database on it and to know exactly at all times about the state of implementation of the report of these standards, and we would be fine if every year we could track through these reports as many pre-school, primary or secondary areas as they are fixed, filled and similar. So I suggest that this database be made by the ministry anyway. Personally, I think it is good to have a debate in this House of Higher Standards too, because these discussions will also encourage the founders, both cities and municipalities in terms of kindergarten, preschool education, and county for primary and secondary schools, to re-work and remind them of their commitment, reminding all of us that they are decentralised in primary and secondary education and therefore fit the founders. The state, through the increase in funds that we had in a certain period of 2004 to 2007, increased the amount of decentralised funds, and what I advocated, and I always said in direct contact with ministry representatives, for greater control and control of the spending of decentralised funds, at local or regional level, because there is also a part of the response to why certain environments have a better situation and others worse. When I say this is an incentive, I must say an example from the town of Slavonski Brod, which is among those cities where they have one kindergarten with over 900 students, meaning it does not meet the criteria, the standard established in these state standards, but the construction of a new kindergarten and finally, and I hope that with the help and opposition councillors in the city council will meet the obligation and bring a network of preschool institutions in the area of Slavonski Brod, which will solve this. Another example from the town of Slavonski Brod, so Brod-Posavina County, but the founder is the town of Slavonski Brod, the only school that works in three shifts, with the help of the state's resources in the state budget and decentralised funds of the town of Slavonski Brod, the school is being upgraded and I hope that by the end of 2011, the Brod-Posavina County will be clean in this respect. So they won't have any more of these, they won't have any more schools working on three shifts. A colleague, Lugaric, said on behalf of the club that who will boast, who will be ashamed. I'm simply going to repeat what I said and in the debate when we talked about amendments and amendments to the law, no law guarantees us, no state pedagogical standard guarantees that this will be resolved below. A lot depends on people. And what we need to develop, not just here in these implementation reports, is the obligation of state pedagogical standards to units of local and regional self-government to comply with their laws required, and not that we must not let God impose sanctions on us for not fulfilling the legal obligations of the part that is local or regional self-government. I do not think that longer, I believe that these reports as the first reports have responded in addition to all and despite the shortcomings that colleagues have made in their discussions, that, in the future, they are a good basis for us to monitor from year to year how the state, or how the founders, units of local and regional self-government meet the obligations of the state pedagogical standard both in the field of pre-school and primary education and in the secondary school system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57125	Thank you very much. We have one replica, respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57126	Dear colleague Bilić Vardić, I do not know how you concluded that this report says that standards are respected. For example, it's written to you in pedagogical standard, a pedagogical standard report in high school that we have a total of 285 educators and 153 psychologists, in one place. It is secondly written that we have a total of 51 thousand, about 51 thousand students. Let's not count twice those who go to music school, and this regular school. And when you share it then you turn out to be one professional associate, educator, or psychologist, 150 students. Although the standard prescribes that a school with up to 180 students must have 2 professional associates. I don't know how you found, based on that, that standard is respected when mathematics is an exact proof that it is not respected. That's one thing. Secondly, speaking of these units of local self-government, the founders of these educational institutions, of course, that one part of them is truly responsible for not carrying out what was needed. However, I think the story is somewhat more complex. On the one hand, according to the provisions and laws and standards of states, i.e. the state budget is obliged to co-finance the programme of public needs with the founders which seemed to be where, and if we want to just go into a deeper debate, I will say so for this occasion and perhaps later and now simplified, the unit of local self-government that cannot support the school cannot be a unit of local self-government. It's a problem of structure now, just municipalities and cities. Some would say that if you can't support the school and the infirmary, you can't be a local self - government unit. So that story is still more complicated. In the distribution of tax revenues, we took away many things from local self-government units, and we kept dropping our obligations. So it's not that simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57127	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57128	Thank you very much. Comrade Lugaric, I did not say that standards are respected but I said I welcome these reports. They were delivered in accordance with the law. The annual report should go. And speaking of professional associates, I'll be back in favor of what I said depended on people. There are over a thousand students in Slavonski Brod High School and there are no psychologists because the director, in a direct conversation with him, because the principal did not ask for his assessment. And then we get these indicators, and in the end, right in high schools, look at the number of educators, which is the number of psychologists, how many librarians. Secondly, I agree with you that this problem is much more complex, but my colleagues Lugaric, as I recall in 2001, have transferred decentralised functions to units of local and regional self-government. So I'm asking if this High House had any indicators to prove that it's possible that these units you're talking about meet the conditions and that they can have primary and secondary schools? If there was that database then, I believe the law would have been different, not put everything in the same level and died in war and poorer, so with greater obligations to resuscitate war damage and richer environments. And that is why today when fellow Setic speaks about what environments they respected, which separate from their budgets that colleagues can make richer environments, the town of Rijeka, the Istrian County, the Primorje-Gorski, richer environments. And I'm more surprised by the team, now I'm going to relate to my colleague Šolić, which is then with the City of Zagreb because there are the biggest problems in Zagreb just following the state's pedagogical standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57129	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Željir Janjic, State Secretary, asked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57130	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me briefly say one piece of information that the esteemed representative Doric mentioned here, and since it is really very constructive to discuss this, it is my obligation to the team greater. You were talking about numbers, so you mentioned 407 and 425. Right, it's actually about the next one. We have 407 high school institutions, high schools and 18 dorms, independent dormitories. So that's the number. Well, clarity is what I have to tell you. So, total in the Republic of Croatia we have 54 student homes, of which 54 18 is on their own, they stayed in high school. That's why you have that disparity that you were talking about. By the way, so we had three counties where we didn't have a single dormitory, now you see that it's 2 because in the meantime a student home was founded in Gospić, Ličko-Senj County, which was the third. So, from 106 places 22 students are located in the student dorm, the other students from the Gospić university are left. The possibility is, of course, open, so when you look at that number of students in the dorms, then you'll see that it's about 6.5 thousand, and we really have 8 thousand 448 seats. So in other places there are either students or somewhere homes aren't completely filled, mostly in the periphery. That's what I'm talking about, then I have to add something else. So another dormitory was established, and it was founded by Baptists in Čakovec, and another one will be opened in the autumn in Krapina-Zagorje County in Pregrad, which also has students, but also has a dislocated sisterhood study where they can also accommodate students of the higher school. And the esteemed MP Vardic has asked the question of those who have not submitted the reports. Two counties, as founders. Sisak-moslavina and Varazdinska. When our report went to the Croatian Parliament, meanwhile, a report from the Varazdin County arrived, but it is not yet from Sisak-Moslavina County. I, at your instigation, think that Commissioner Lugaric was suggested to deliver the report, I then sent a memo from which you saw that it was my haste to all the founders to deliver the reports, and if it does not make us write that they did not. That's what we did. We therefore expect that the future relationship will be more correct and that these reports will be more complete in order to know where they are made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57131	Thank you very much. It's time to report individual debates so we still have 2. First of all, the Honorable Representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57132	I'm going to try to be very brief so I'm asking for a recompensation if I don't spend all 10 minutes. It seems to me that pedagogical standards are a measure that we on this side, so to speak, welcome because they are on the one hand equating, so they prescribe what we call the minimum conditions of the functioning of the education and education system. So, something that should be worth everything without exception. And on the other hand, we were convinced that the introduction of these minimum conditions improves throughout a number of schools... their functioning, their equipment, the size of the class, so the possibility of intensive work with students and students and so on. The report, which we have otherwise acquired or, on several occasions, protested that it has not yet been, fortunately he is here now, seems to me that it appears to me that many of the prescribed pedagogical standards that have had a zero coefficient of application, so they should not have been applied immediately, therefore it is evident from the Report. We can tell the reasons are these, the reasons are they, we can say a lack of financial resources, a lack of personnel, a lack of infrastructure that couldn't be built immediately, etc. But at times it's annoying when the report says they're not applied and there's no reason why. This has become our obligation and without any triumphalism I will tell you that we have then strongly warned that the deadlines are too short, that the funds are too small and that we do not have enough personnel. You've almost made a pompous decision, I must say, because we've been against, you've made pedagogical standards, hence another appeal that in such situations where, if possible, consensus is needed, we're making decisions based on reasons, on arguments, not on current political will. Secondly, it seems quite short to me that the report has its quantitative and qualitative side and then appropriate financial and action plans. The quantitative side as has already been said on several occasions is insufficient from a whole series of quantitative data I also could not gain insight, I could get the impression of the real state of Croatian schooling, I could not gain insight. In particular, I could not get the necessary information about perhaps the most needed segment of Croatian education that is vocational education, primarily about the state of equipment. So, which many complain about, which is outdated, that I don't now list a whole series of data. Then, after a whole series of quantitative data, a well-qualified part of the comments, explanations, explanations should be followed, therefore, and in the final sequence of reasons. Then I think that every decent report must contain an action plan, we didn't do this, but we're planning to do it in the next six months, two years, 17 years, however you will, so that action plan also doesn't exist. And from the discussions so far that I don't have a longer period of time, it seems that I am showing myself to be a desperate need for an analytical service in the Croatian Education System, and here I fully agree with my colleague Doric. And will you tie it to the Ministry or perhaps even better with the Education and Education Agency I don't know but the appropriate analytical service must exist, or if you have data, if there are currently no available people within the system of the state administration or within the system of outsortized services, so hire experts from the university who will be very happy to write you comments and who from a professional position we think is good, will not say that it is a bad thing to say we'll think it would have to be something better than it is. So, I think we're longing for the qualitative processing of the data that we're currently having, and I hope that in the next report first, we hope that the next report will not beg and ask for how much was the case with the first report. And secondly, the next report will be complemented by this particular data, precisely this analysis that we know not only where we are but that we know what we can do in the short term, which we can do in the medium term, and in the long run what we have to do. When we were bringing in pedagogical standards, we didn't say let's see what we could do, but we said let's see what we wanted. And what we really want is that valuable measuring system that we need to measure our current achievements. In some aspects we were better, in some respects I'm not going to say that we were bad but I'm going to say we should have been much better. And hopefully then in the next report we'll have that different data, so more data, but that your data will be qualitatively better than it was now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57133	Thank you very much. And another respected representative of Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I want to say a few words for preschool education, given that preschool education is funded at the level of local self-government. First of all, in these materials, 56.7% of children in preschool education are found to be included in the total. I think that information is quite alarming if we have in mind the fact that I think I've already said here once, it's what the pedagogues said, that you give me a child by the age of 5 and 6 for real education and then do with it whatever you want. If that's how we view it, over 40% of preschool children are not covered by that kind of education. I am particularly concerned by this fact that local self-government stands out below 10% for these purposes and needs, and even up to 25%. The practical fate of these children in many areas depends on the mood or mood of the commissioners and his associates in the municipality because he is not ready to understand the construction of kindergartens and often a celebration of the day of the municipality costs as much as two, three months could do that kindergarten. Here for every commendation is and I congratulate this municipality of Kalinovica, and I don't even know where it is, but the only municipality that in 100% is financing the expenses of the stay of children in preschool. Furthermore, from these materials I have seen, I have read that according to these standards the optimal number of children in kindergartens is up to 600, here in Osijek there is a preschool education centre that works with 10 or 12 kindergartens where there are no problems and this Center now proposes 5 or 8 kindergartens. Does that mean there should be so many directors and all the other staff. I don't think there's any problem here in Osijek at least I don't have any problem with that. On the Committee on Local Self-Government, we presented a finding here at the end of these materials, which reads: "The problem is that in kindergartens where the founders of the municipality with a small budget of the work of the secretariat and accounting are performed by employees of secretaries and other workers in the municipality or provided them with authorized services." I think it's a bit of an unfortunate formulation because it's not a particular problem, it's just rational because for a small kindergarten with 3, 4 or 5 groups we even have a situation for more kindergartens with more municipalities being done in one place than if each kindergarten had its own administration. That would be extremely even irrational. I think this formula is a little bit unfortunate. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57135	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motionary, does the Secretary of State want a final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57136	So I simply wouldn't want to miss the opportunity and show my greatest pride by presenting the first reports of the State Pedagogical Standard that had been gone for decades. I am sorry that you are disappointed with your colleague Lugaric and part of the SDP or the entire SDP and that you are pleading how disastrous it is, how annoying it is. With one piece of support, but you never voted for it. I have to go back to what has been said so far that changes go always with the will of education policy. Education policy has shown good will for this document at all three levels. Whoever can't, the ministry can't amnestize criticism, it can encourage us. In fact, all feedback reports and our will to finally record the situation throughout the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of the standard is to create the same conditions for teaching and learning, which at one point begins, is followed, so if it was even ideal to say the coefficient 0 by commending all those who have done it, who have offered it, and the others we will offer whatever administratively called a rush or help them do it because, specifically for the school's networks, we need to learn to do a demographic projection, we need to know how to plan 6 years in advance, we need to watch urban projects. And you shouldn't be ashamed to say what's written in the report, and that was true. If a number may be wrong, these are the most true, faithfully written standards. If in primary schools an ideal measure for the size of grade departments has been implemented in the whole of which they have welcomed in all 870 schools, if Croatia has made shifts in the organisation of grade departments for children with difficulties, and that the National Framework Curricula has not published and that it has embarked on the implementation of such a project, I think that all teachers, teachers, professional associates, especially parents deserve a great congratulation from these positions because they have contributed to the achievement of the DPS. Work is one-way statistics, and work is one-way products across schools, a series of schools that mean it can be one-way, it can be a full-time course, it can be a half-day course, it can be the quality of work of a small school, parent school, rural schools, city schools, three-day, two-day classes, for which the ministry is not in charge of doing a deep qualitative analysis. But it did an excellent job, which is that, in parallel with all these elements, the parameters received from the founders asked the Institute of Social Research for the first study not to speak by heart. It ordered a second study and a third so that it could of course give the entire Croatian public, and in particular give you all this deep data. As far as the school network is concerned, we've really given the founders a rush. We want to know and record the status of the number of employees in all educational institutions and it's real because we have copies if it's a replacement for sick and whatever. I will not miss out on the opportunity to say that basic education in the Republic of Croatia has over European standards the employment of the number of experts in education and education at primary school level. The employment of peers at preschool level does not have the same purpose at all, given the qualifications of the educator and the age of the child they work with, as well as the teamwork expected at preschool level cannot possibly be the same at primary school and neither at secondary school level. Therefore, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will lead and continue to keep an even more thorough record of the implementation of the DPS, and all qualitative improvements will bring along with the Agency and other infrastructure, especially with institutes and scientific research units. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57137	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on these points when, hopefully, the conditions come tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57138	We move to the Report on the implementation of the National Pedagogical Standard of Preschool Education and Education between 10 June 2008 and 31 December 2009, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the conclusion which reads: "The report on the implementation of the National Pedagogical Standard of Preschool Education and Education in the period from 10 June 2008 to 31 December 2009. "years." Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Score. This report was accepted by most votes, 80 votes for, nothing abstentions and 37 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57199	We are now moving to a united discussion for the next three points, which are - Proposal for amendments to the National Pedagogical Standard of Preschool Education and Education - Proposal for amendments to the State Pedagogical Standard of Primary Education and Education - Proposal for amendments to the State Pedagogical Standard of the Secondary Education and Education System The promoter of these proposals is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You took the materials into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received reports from those committees at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposals, or the proposals for these amendments? Dear Secretary of State Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57200	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here I will really try to get through our amendments and additions to state pedagogical standards from pre-school to high school systems as quickly as possible. He's at least in preschool. So we propose here to delete the parts of the provisions in those articles where each is said to be effective after a five-year period. In the table view of the performance coefficient, we suggest that the number of children in the educational group be a coefficient of two. That means 2012. There was one, that the number of professional associates given the number of educational groups would be two and that the quality system of preschool education and education would be a coefficient of zero because last time it was simply left out of this figure. In the proposal to amend the pedagogical standard of primary education, we propose that the second subparagraph of Article 10 of the formula be changed and that the student with developmental difficulties is a student with an appropriate form of schooling, of course. In the second article, add another new item, including schools in health care institutions. In the third article, we are talking about the size of parent schools. So, parent schools because we've introduced a category of parent and district schools and I'm asking you to keep in mind that we don't cancel any existing schools. With all these schools, children will continue to study as they have been, but that we want to realize where the status of that school needs to be changed and if it is a very small school in time until 2017, such school will assign the status of the regional school for the reasons mentioned above. It will not apply linearly to everyone in the country of Croatia, and I therefore call on you to the fourth article of the third article where it is said: "The primary school with district schools or district departments can be established with at least 150 pupils, except primary schools with difficult working conditions, primary schools that conduct education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, educational and educational institutions in which a special programme for students with difficulties or dislocated schools, private schools with the right of the public, or because of some other specificities at the request of the founders, with the consent of the ministry. So, to understand each other the way you've had the opportunity to see it in the press today, it's a misinformation and it's actually a single article that isn't at all, whose author hasn't even read what's written here. Furthermore, in Article 4, we say that the optimal number of students in the class section is 20 to 28. It was 14. We erased this. So, there wouldn't be any false interpretations. But I will remind you that the above figure is reduced by three for each student who is integrated, right, students with difficulties and that there can be three students the most. But also, also by respecting all these specificities, we can't expect some elementary school on one of our islands that has a very small number of students, and even below 10, so one class department that we're going to question. Of course, we won't question him because it's a special feature and I'm asking you to keep that in mind, so if you need to go to the public and get that information out. I'm asking you to do it anyway. So far in the combined class department of three to four classes, we've said that there can't be a single student who's having difficulties and who's involved. Now we open up that possibility that it can be, because for God's sake what we're going to do if he has nowhere else to go to send him somewhere far away. We also add one part in Article 6 relating to the extended stay organised in the morning and all other activities after the completion of the course. In Article 7, we are talking about the construction of new school facilities, but we are adding the formulation that this applies equally to both construction and reconstruction, and in any case we want this to be the result of one analysis of demographic movements. Simply put, it would not be a good idea to create a modern facility with high pedagogical standards, with all the required classrooms, and we know that in 10 years, there may not be a student, perhaps half of what they currently have. And in Article 8, we add the possibility that in those small schools where we have so far predicted that we should have a specialized classroom for Croatia, for the mother tongue of the national minority, for the foreign language each classroom separately. Here in small schools we allow the possibility of it being one where they can teach themselves. So, of course the alterations will use it. We delete the provision of Articles 40 and 41 of the obligation to learn how to ride a bicycle or swim. We know that one part of the school is doing it and they're going to implement it in the future, but as an explicit obligation to prescribe it, and not to execute it, maybe it's not the best solution. So, all those in the future who can do it are open to them, but we do not explicitly prescribe that this must be so. When it comes to performance coefficients for professional associates instead of coefficients two we propose a coefficient of three due to known circumstances. Also, criteria for space and equipment in elementary school and for the nutrition of students, and to be clear conditions for setting up parent and district departments, this is what is new, is the coefficient 3. So until 2017, to be gradual, not to be some sudden cut and to question both jobs and everything else and, of course, to other workers. And allow me a little bit more about high school education. The first article also discusses home - to - day district schools. Thus, it is also eight grade departments and 150 students, with the fact that we have not touched the formulation referred to in the third article, which says secondary schools for rare occupations, art schools, language schools and letters of national minorities, schools for students with disabilities, schools in islands and in areas of special state care, in mountain and mountain areas and private schools with public rights can also be organised with a smaller number of classrooms. We didn't change that. Further, the article discusses the square of the cleaning area in schools. We're raising that square. So far there have been 500 and 600 square meters of dependence on whether it's laid on wood, i.e. a lot of oil, or there's central heating there now we suggest it's 700 and 800, for 200 squares more. So mostly when it comes to new spaces, we really need to bring it into line with higher education and science where we have a square that was much bigger than it was in primary and secondary schools before, there's no reason not to be the same. But notice, and when it comes to this provision and there's going to be a performance coefficient of 3, so by 2017 and where we have surpluses, we're going to solve them in two ways, the first time someone goes into retirement and we already have indicators for this and the next year, so no one's going to be out of work, but the job is going to be shut down, according to the new standards, and when it comes to current surpluses, we have to honestly admit it, so on the current surpluses, we're going to reroute them to those school facilities where because of the familiar situation we haven't approved new jobs. So if we have 20 kilometers from Zagreb of a new sports hall, which is recently completed, there is no approved place of work for cleanliness in those halls, we will move them from those schools where the extras are moved there. That's how we're actually going to solve this. The same applies to the boiler room norm, and that's where we delete that provision. It's said it's to 400 students. We really didn't do it well, now we're talking about 3,000 squares, so one, one average size of our school, and that's something that's quite enough. And what we need in the second shift to protect against fire will be realized in accordance with that provision that speaks of 25%, so even where one school in another shift is needed can be covered by one person, so they will previously have a job in one school, and one part of the working time at another school, it is a cumulative working relationship that is perfectly normal and famous, they know best, let's say our music culture teachers who have to work for, in several schools have a cumulative working relationship. And I won't repeat myself, when it comes to these conditions of construction, construction or reconstruction, we'll also allow in those smaller schools the possibility that one specialized unsub can actually serve more objects, we think it's rational and that's why we'll leave it that way. Therefore, there are coefficients of 3 to 2017, and we hope that such a one-step approach will make sure that we achieve those goals that we set before us with this one dynamic system rationalise. I'm going to end up being sure we're all interested in making this system better. It's also good because of those who are currently in power, and it's just as good because of those other governments that are going to be in a position to edit this. So for these reasons, it seems to us that we should all be for these, for these adjustments, and for the real setting of the goals, which are appropriate to this situation, because sometimes when we were talking about state pedagogical standards, opportunities were still something different, so maybe the bar rose a little bit more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57201	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57202	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Representatives, Here is a debate on the proposal to amend the state pedagogical standard of pre-school education and education, primary education and secondary education and education systems as united deserves our attention, but I think we have already touched all the important elements around pedagogical standards, and I am also experiencing the Croatian Democratic Community club only strengthening the function of pedagogical standards and some elements that will enhance more effective monitoring. I can tell by the systems, so when it comes to preschool periods, preschool standards of education, then it's touched by a void that's possible to create... deadlines concerning the number of children in education and education, educated from 2011 to 2013, the possibility of meeting for the reasons that some founders have highlighted problems with their reports on the implementation of the provisions of this standard. [[You don't understand.]] It is also important here to say the number of professional associates who want to be completed, that these standards and standards from K1 are also relocated to 2013. Those are the two important improvements I would say, so I can comply with the standards. With regard to the primary school system, there are most changes, there are one 12, 13 so I'll just mention some. First of all, the definition of students with developmental difficulties is prescribed, for which we determine an appropriate form of schooling. Article 2 is then prescribed the already existing possibility of achieving educational work in a health care institution. Article 3 provides that the primary school can be formed with at least 8 classrooms and about 150 pupils. I have nothing to add here, because today we've discussed it well. Article 4 provides for the optimal number of students in class section 20, maximum number of students 28. Article 5 is amended as follows: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 7 provides for a way of planning and more rational normative for the construction and equipment of schools. Article 8 provides for the possibility of teaching in the common classroom depending on the number of students. In Article 9 of this change, they consistently ensure optimal classroom size, given the age of students, psychophysical abilities, teaching methods, optimal distance from the school board, and compliance with legal regulations in terms of classroom lighting. So very, very detailed, etc. Therefore, all of these are in Article 12. For example, it relates to the performance coefficient, determines the feasibility coefficient for the employment of professional associates in primary schools, and, in accordance with other regulations, it is necessary to add an expert on the educational rehabilitation direction. So these are, you can see very professional categories, so the state pedagogical standard is improving in this area. I'd just like to say one more thing about the high school system. In this area, the proposed amendments to the application of normatives are in line with the economic recovery measures for more rational employment of non-teaching staff. This is particularly important in addition to the number of workers in auxiliary technical work, non-teaching staff and experts who maintain computer-informatic equipment. The proposal to amend the same performance coefficient and to allocate to that extent the performance coefficient 3, this means until 2017. That's how that deadline was extended. The law on vocational education is definitely a burden on students of the first class of vocational schools by means of a practical course and the proposal to amend standards in that section is necessary given the fact that the standard was adopted before that law. There, it is a spirit that changes, or repairs, and makes the state’s pedagogical standard more effective. In the end, I just want to say that we support these changes and that the HDZ club will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57203	Thank you. SDP club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57204	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, but perhaps a little bit at the end of this afternoon's debate on education, unfortunately, the SDP Representatives Club will not be able to support any of these proposals to amend the state pedagogical standards and I will state the reasons for both the second and the third. However, earlier, Ms. Secretary of State Diana Vica said that changes in education are due to good will in education policy. Good will is what mathematicians would need, but not enough conditions. Changes in education policy, with good will as a necessary condition, must be met by at least two other conditions. And this is that this policy of education that implements these changes is professional and others that it has the ability to provide financial resources for the implementation of changes. So good will alone, unfortunately, isn't enough as much as we might want. Now, as far as specific changes are concerned. Compared to the proposal for amendments to the pedagogical standards of pre-school education and education, the proposal proposes to postpone by the end of 2013, we had in the original by the end of 2011, the application of standards relating to the number of children in the educational group and the number of professional associates in terms of the number of children, i.e. educational groups. We simply cannot support this change because it is indeed a big problem. Overcrowded kindergartens and an insufficient number of professional associates who work with children and in the growing crisis of the family simply don't need a problem that we don't need the standard to be fulfilled in a way that we can now postpone the application so that we have an excuse why we haven't done something but we need to go to an urgent solution. The additional argument is also an indication of the applicant we had in the Standard Implementation Report that it was not even meeting the standards prescribed in '83. A year. So, we're now standards from '83. Let me put it this way. We're going for 2013 and we've had them in the original until 2011. I think that fact is devastating enough, and I'm afraid that if we don't secure financial resources, we help those founders, or local units that can't do it ourselves, and we don't co-finance that we simply won't do anything good. As regards the proposal to amend standards in primary and secondary education, first in primary education. So, it is already mentioned here that it is proposed to introduce a minimum condition for a parent school with a regional school. We've heard a lot of speculation about how many of these schools are here. In Croatia we have 73 schools with fewer than 100 students, we have 271 schools with 100 to 300 students. Somehow, our assessment says that without a press release, it would lead to a change of status to about 100 schools. We fully agree with all those exceptions relating to minority schools, island schools, schools in areas of special state care, etc. But are we really interested in whether a simulation has been done and how much will school change its status by applying this measure? If we have so many exceptions, and we have because these little schools mostly fall under some of these exceptions, we're afraid we're making a big panic over 3, 4 or maybe just 5, 6 schools. How many schools are it really, and what schools are they? I hope those simulations exist. The more the standards do not prescribe what the upper limit is for school, the more we have had examples in Zagreb before these standards of large schools, for example schools in Dugava which were then separated because of standards, there are 2 or 3 institutions in the same building. For the second reason, Article 7 of the amendment de facto suspends the work of schools in one shift, i.e. the decision on whether we will have school in one or more shifts, or whether we are going to build such a school actually depends on a good part on the arbitration of people in the Ministry of Science, i.e. on tables and goodwill of the Secretary of State for Finance, and it simply cannot be good enough to make a decision. The third reason why we cannot support this proposal is in line with the amendment of Article 9 of the basic school DPS. In view of the reduction of classroom squares, but much more important than that, the functional connection of the classroom with some kind of doptics or forms of work needed to achieve the plan and programme is deleted. I'm sorry that in all these discussions on pedagogical standards, no one actually mentioned and why we are even discussing buildings, squares, classrooms and the like. The school is simply a functional building and how you in the National Girlcullum claim a way of learning and teaching should therefore draw a building and also a classroom square. If our little girl's teaching is frontal, of course our classroom's square is smaller. If we define ourselves to work in groups, working in pairs, etc., then we simply need to make the classroom square. And it's not something that comes to mind from Mars like this, it just has to be conditioned by a national girl, and so to say the recommended ways of learning and teaching. And now there's been a re-expression of what we've been warning from the SDP for years, which is that we've done a lot of things in education backwards. The things we were supposed to bring at the end we brought at the beginning. Some things that should have preceded everything, which is the National Girlculum we still don't have, and with that we're still cooking. The fourth reason why we will not support these changes of DPS for primary school is in art. 12th since it's art. 12. postpones the application of standards for the employment of educators, psychologists, professional education and rehabilitation profiles, librarians and health workers in accordance with the standards from the end of 2012 until the end of 2017. In a situation of growing violence among children, we can't solve the problem by saying look, we wrote it that it should actually be, but we're not going to do it now because we also wrote that we're going to do it there in 2017. 2017 is in 7 years. Or six-and-a-half, so a good part of the kids who are going to school now are going to finish their education and they simply won't benefit from it at all. Secondly, Article 12 prolongs the deadline for meeting the criteria for space and equipment for new schools, for new schools that we are building right now, that is logical if we are building new schools that you will immediately build by standards, for these new schools standards for space and equipment we will implement by the end of 2017. Which we're going to build some kind of school smaller and then, by the way, by 2107, we're going to be harmonizing with the standards, it doesn't make sense. Also, the obligation to organize a student's diet that was to be realized by the end of 2012 with which we saw at the last point that we have a lot of problems to implement by the end of 2017 I will not repeat here that in fact most of our children do not have a warm meal at school and all the consequences that are related to it. And the last reason why we won't support changes of DPS in primary school is because hiring other workers, these are helpers in teaching for children with developmental difficulties, accounting secretary, housekeepers, janitors, school masters chefs and similar prolongings by the end of 2017. Now regarding this untrained staff, if without them schools can work, by 217, why hire them in the first place after 2017. If they are important to achieve national curricula, then they should be hired immediately. It's just something that doesn't just have some kind of specific logic and we can't support it. As for the proposal to amend the DPS for secondary schooling, we cannot support them for the following reasons, as well as in primary schooling, it is proposed to introduce a minimum condition for parent school, so 8 departments and 150 students, at the same time we do not establish the maximum criterion for school size, or how many of the largest schools can have children. And we're also interested here in how many really high schools that have now been parenting will, by applying this standard, have a change in that status. If this applies to music schools, dance schools and such, we would be interested in what schools are actually involved. Secondly, another reason lies in increasing the standards for cleaning women. As much as it may seem to anyone about this, the issue of maintaining the cleanliness and hygiene of school space, or in school hygiene, is not exactly the same as maintaining hygiene in another public space. YES kids, I don't know when you last went to school to have kids sitting on the floor, let me have some of these banalities they're rolling around on the floor, so the school has special requirements for disinfection of school space etc., it doesn't quite matter. And we now have a cleaning lady, and I'm suggesting that one cleaning lady cleans 800 squares, where we have 800 square meters, where we have central heating, I'm curious how much of our cleaning room here in the House has to clean up our office spaces. So if we agree somewhere that we all have to and have to work more, then we think there's got to be some kind of consistency and some kind of connectivity and it still seems to us that somehow whoever gets hurt first is the schools. Secondly, it was mentioned by Mr. Secretary of State in the opening exhibition, the standard is abolished that schools that have boiler rooms, and there are plenty of schools, and they would be surprised that in fact more than those with central heating have one janitor per shift already the whole story connects to the square, one to three thousand squares. It's somewhat meaningful that these boiler rooms aren't potentially dangerous, not just because of the fire, Mr. Secretary of State's cumulative working relationship I'm afraid they won't solve all your problems, because our schools are mostly working on two shifts. I wonder what if something happens at this time, here's half seven o'clock in the evening, it's the duration of this last six hours of teaching, there's got to be just one person at school who can spin a valve if something goes on to prevent some major tragedy and the explosion is simply a matter of security. As banal as it may seem, they would simply not want to read in the news that for the sake of saving 5 or 10 people who have on the way, be told very small wages we question the safety of children. The third reason why we cannot support changes in the DPS for secondary school is found in Article 10, where again similar to in primary school de facto, the work of schools in one shift is suspended, i.e. the decision on whether the school will work in one or two shifts leaves the arbitration of officials or state secretary who has very powerful tables in the Ministry of Science and I repeat, has driven many leaders of local self-government units and regionals who wanted to build their schools. And the last reason is in Article 8 where, in fact, from the zero coefficient, we are prolonging the employment of computer maintenance experts and IT equipment immediately by the end of 2017. We've heard that so far we haven't hired any of them because the Ministry didn't bring in a rule that would make it possible for them to sign up. I ask you colleagues and colleagues who have fought those decisions have been boasting from the Ministry in recent years that a lot has been done in the purchase of information equipment, if we have dragged into the schools the information equipment that we may be most inadequately using in terms of learning and teaching, if we do not have experts who would care about maintenance of these equipment that is quite expensively paid for, which is what it is really all about, and it seems to us that these people should be employed immediately, and then perhaps some problems with the e-matrix that some people had at the end of this school year might be smaller, we might be better resolved. And the last reason why we cannot support the DPS for secondary school is that by the end of 2017 the application of standards related to the application of construction criteria and equipment of newly built schools is prolonged. So again similar illogicalness, if we have a newly built school logically that it must be built immediately by standard provisions, so there should be K0 right away, we really do not understand why newly built schools, so the schools we are building must be compared to the standards by 2017. We find it easier to make the school as it belongs immediately than then to build it, stick some annexes to it to establish the standards. The only thing that doesn't exist in these standards of change, and the people on the ground have told us that it really needs to be changed in the State Pedagogue Standards that are prescribed squares for other spaces. It's for dining rooms, entrance space, stuff like that. We have dimensional dining rooms per square or square and a half per student, although our students eat in shifts, at least those who have the luck to have a kitchen and a meal at school. And we are very sorry that once the changes had already taken place they did not do as the proposals of the people on the ground were. And I repeat in the end, please just don't forget, schools are functional buildings, the primary function is that they serve the goals of the National Curricula. And only if we have the National Curricula and with the objectives of achieving the National Curiculum-related buildings can we actually expect the whole system to work and then these state pedagogical standards make sense. Otherwise, we do some things that we spend a lot of money on, and we're not really sure where this whole adventure is going to lead us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57205	Thank you. The HSS club, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As we all know, the basic objective of the standard is to create equal working conditions as assumptions to ensure better quality of education for children and young people, in line with their needs, interests and abilities. The past period of its application has led to an improvement in the overall pedagogical activity in accordance with the prescribed criteria, has ensured the achievement of a certain level of objectives set and has ensured approximately equal development conditions in educational and educational institutions. It also showed all the advantages, but also certain legal gaps and shortcomings, so now it is time for them to be corrected. Since 2005 a major step has been made to date in preschool education and 182 kindergartens have been built, thus increasing the coverage of kindergarten children to 58% and even 99% of children are covered by preschool programmes. When it comes to elementary schools, it should be said that there are 875 regulars in the Republic and those with a special programme, but 143 schools or institutions have fewer than 150 students. The existence of small schools of privilege is different and happier economic situations, as they certainly significantly raise the cost of the functioning of the education system as a whole which in the current crisis situation is not possible to ignore. As a result, these changes and additions to the pedagogical standard propose modified norms which would lose that status to some parent schools and will function as regional schools to contribute to rationalisation and cutting unnecessary costs. Another newspaper is being introduced, which is that the current standard in the combined class section of 3.4 class could not have included a student with developmental difficulties, and since such children are relatively poorly involved in society, it further made it difficult to socialise these children. In order to correct this error, the proposed amendment and complementarity of the pedagogical standard proposes to include such children in the combined classes, thus making the combined classes characteristic for small school districts with fewer students, and the release of children with developmental difficulties from such small collectives only causing additional difficulties for both parents and children themselves. The pedagogical standard requires that a diet be organised for students and adequate standardized areas for their diet. Since the current economic situation currently makes it impossible to address this issue in quality by proposing amendments, it is proposed to organise a student's diet without at the same time being related to the preparation of food in the school kitchen itself. This way, diet will be organised for children, while not at the same time entering major investment projects, nor will there be a need for additional employment of non-teaching staff. For the sake of reduced inflow of funds and implementation of the economic programme, it is prescribed that the primary secondary school can be formed, i.e. to be formed with at least eight classrooms and at least 150 students, with exceptions to music, dance and schools for members of national minorities or secondary schools located on islands and in areas of special state care. Also, the pedagogical standard provides for prolonging the employment of computer maintenance experts, IT equipment and increasing standards for workers in assistive and technical jobs. In addition, compliance is carried out with the Law on Professional Education in the section that prescribes the burden on students of the first class of vocational schools with practical instruction, which was later adopted. After the short changes and additions to the teaching standard, we can say that we understand also the critics in part when they view the above-mentioned provisions in a timid way and that rationalisation also hides certain rights, jobs and so on. But at the same time, we need to be prepared for certain cuts, especially in part of the irrationality. If it's ever time for rational treatment, these are moments of crisis when opportunities are reduced. We believe that we are not in a position to stick our heads in the sand and that it is necessary that we are absolutely all carrying part of the crisis on our backs which, of course, is not always easy, but mature people and mature societies, and I consider Croatia to be a mature society and, in such difficult conditions, know how to survive a particular situation, and the problematic experiences serve them to gather ranks, rationalise problems, acquire experiences and find the right solutions. Therefore, the HSS Club will support the proposal to amend the state pedagogical standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57207	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57208	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Given that the previous point and this point are very closely connected, I would have started with one sentence, which was presented by the Secretary of State in its final statement. I'm sorry it's here for us. Her statement reads: The ministry is not obliged to prepare deep data analyses required by the opposition. I have to admit that I couldn't trust my ears when I heard that, because if the ministry, not just the ministry, but us, here is not only criticism at the expense of the government, but also us all sitting here, not that we're doing deep analysis and based exclusively on deep analysis and objective numbers, arguments, very clear, making moves then how we're going to do. Therefore, only a deep analysis and exclusively objective data and only such decisions. So let me just say right at the beginning, if we're going to work the way she suggested then we can't accept it. Yeah, some agencies, someone on the side of us doing some study, it's really sad. The objection to us is that at the beginning of this point no one in front of either the parent or the other committee has appeared to make clear to us the position of those who are very interested here. I will ask only one question and develop a brief discussion around it. Who, colleagues and colleagues, does it concern to change the State Pedagogue Standard? Who's it to? It's about cities, municipalities, founders' county, they're all about them. Who does it concern to transport students, homes, diets, textbooks? It's about the parents. It's all about them. Who does the knowledge and skills acquired at school concern? It concerns students and employers. Because that clearly depends on their future. According to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, we cannot and should never pass laws, change regulations of any kind, even standards in this case, without agreeing well, we should not agree in detail with representatives of local and regional self-government. That job was supposed to be done in part by our board, but also by the ministry. I haven't heard any more serious attitudes related to such an analysis of the attitudes of cities and municipalities that we hit directly on the pocket. Next, parents. There are school boards. It's not hard to get to the parent's point of view. With a little effort everything can be done correctly. Employers should be able to talk directly to the Croatian Employers' Association or through the Chamber of Commerce or in countless other ways. So that's what we're asking at the HNS Club, HSU, basically in the future when we're making these changes, that we're really doing a proper depth analysis, regardless of what the secretary of state thinks is completely irrelevant. That's all that matters to us. If this is not the case, then it comes to the situation in which Croatia is in 2010, because we made moves based on these or those arguments or on half arguments, based on feelings, intuition, but never on the basis of real facts, based on which we have drawn all the moves of the past ten, fifteen years. Unfortunately, it's just such a drastically bad approach that we heard earlier, and here it has led us to the situation in which we are today and I really ask you colleagues to try to correct our work, let's really try to bring as many objective parameters as possible, so it won't be difficult in that case for you to support me and me with your proposal because then I think we'll absolutely have a different course of our discussions and a different outcome of our decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57209	Thank you. An individual debate. There's still one representative. Mr. Representative Mario Habek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57210	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are facing changes in the teaching standards of preschool education, basic school and secondary education systems. Why am I stressing that? Because the Ministry of Science and Education and Sport that brings these changes could add another area name to me, which is fire. Why the fire department? For the simple reason that Minister Fuchs, and his predecessors, are not able to give clear, recognizable and modern orientations in this important sector of governance within the government, but is regularly forcing us to adopt fire-fighting measures in school and for what? Because Prime Minister Kosor ordered ministers to cut their budgets, so Minister Fuchs decided to cut into education. It seems that our minister is also in the information blockade, so he did not hear that modern countries that hold to their development, which is only possible through investment in the education system in the crisis, also increases investment in education, and cuts on some other indivisible items. It is only evidence that this ministry is headed by a minister without a vision of the development of a Croatian school that does not know and cannot introduce Croatia into the European Union's education system. I come from a county that has almost fully reached pedagogical standards by avoiding these famous and strange performance coefficients. In Varazdin County, almost all schools have reached the standard of one shift course with large investments in the county and cities themselves and municipalities without the ministry. I come from the county where the average class has 19 students with whom teachers, teachers can make it easier to achieve a plan and programme. I come from the county where all the children eat in their schools about the cost of cities and municipalities, and in some schools they are waiting for a healthy milk meal and cereals in the morning. I come from a county where all high school students have subsidized transportation to their schools, so parents can worry more easily about the concerns this government serves on a daily basis, not thinking whether they can collect 800, 1500 or 2000 kuna for a single student's monthly ticket. I don't have to stress specifically that these costs are not borne by the ministry, but by the county, the cities and the municipalities. I come from a county where education is one of the most important strategic development goals, so the County Assembly recently made a decision on a network of secondary schools, where it envisioned two completely new secondary schools in Ludbreg and Novi Marof. The proposal to amend the pedagogical standards of the primary school and secondary school system of education proposes to introduce a minimum condition for parent school with a field school by the number of students, which ultimately leads to the abolition of over 100 schools in the Republic of Croatia. The answer will now be sure to do so because of what, that is, some kuna in a field school that does not have an employee headmaster. We know it's nonsense. However, I must stress that I have been chosen as the fire-breathing minister of Fuchs to do more harm than used to figuratively express myself in the school garden of the Varazdin County. I'm afraid Prime Minister Kosor doesn't turn home schools into small and poor municipalities into district schools, some of the schools 20 miles away. This would sometimes mean the abolition of the only civil institution in the municipality that organizes not only educational, but also cultural facilities for its residents. I hope this government knows how to tell citizens, for example, otherwise you set an example... That their school is no longer called High School, but the New Marof Elementary School. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, with the proposal to amend the pedagogical standards of preschool education, education is proposed to postpone the application of standards relating to the number of children in the educational group and the number of professional associates in view of the number of educational groups by the end of 2013. This is unacceptable because these problems need to be solved as quickly as possible, not delaying their solution. How the government thinks to save the state's savings fund in education I'm going to give another example. In Varazdin County we also have a network of basic music schools with a central secondary music school which is one of the best in the country. Every year we try to enroll more and more children in this electoral content so that we will not only musically respond to these successful musicians such as Tomislav Mužek, Dubravka Krušelj and Ruža Popić, but also introduce into the music world a lot of children who will be able to recognize the real musical values and say not to the music ham that bombes us every day. But you're in vain trying to play what the Prime Minister said the other day. We save, we don't hire new teachers and teachers. And so it happens to you that at Ludbreg Elementary Music School, 33 children are registered in the first class, but can only receive them 5, because the government can't hire new teachers. So much for the vision, so much for the welfare of the children of the deputy and so much for the welfare of this country. And in the end I have to draw one sentence from the explanation of the proposal to amend the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools which are... and deserves to be heard once again, I quote today we have home schools with very few students in whom education is very expensive and irrational. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, you can't have an education, so one child can't be irrational. I would take the liberty of reshaping this terrifying finding and saying that today we have a government... by a small number of members who, for us citizens, are irrational and expensive, and I suggest that we change it as soon as possible and put it out of force. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57211	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Željir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's to letting respected MPs and MPs thank you for all the debates so far and to say that we will consider all the amendments that have arrived until the moment when it is voted on and see what we can accept. But allow just a few words to refer to the debate on behalf of the clubs and in individual debates. I'll start with this individual debate because it's the freshest. Dear Representative Habek, it's nice to hear that in one county we have such a situation in schools, that we have such an average of students per grade department, that there are so many investments, but it's not true that there was no investment from the state budget with all the efforts from the county and cities and municipalities and it's undeniable. On the other hand, our cooperation with the Varazdin County I dare say more than good, more than good and for example many counties. So when you started mentioning certain schools, and we introduced a category of parent and district schools here. Three years ago, we started with a dislocated department of economists in Novi Marof, so a high school that implements primary school teaching, and then this year, at the request of the county, we agreed to do it with the high school department, so another department. And success is good. Likewise, and with Ludbreg, we agreed to do so. Well, of course at one school we'll have two departments, counting on the fact that a few years goes a little bit more, but not still eight and still not 150 students. Of course, such a school can have the status of a regional school, but it's a win-win for a newmarofic end anyway. So it's going to be the same for the ludicrous end, but we can't expect to say now that it's going to be the parent school that's going to have in Ludbreg, let's say a class department. But it can't, and that's what I'm talking about rationality, and that rationality has been accepted by yours in the county. It's quite in place. So we take good care of it. And something that you can boast about, but we, too, by working together and by doing these results that we've achieved because it didn't work out without us. When you talk about music school, of course by appreciating all the high anniversary as has music school in Varazdin, you know well last year, that we are ready to be quality support, but there is something we must honestly say here, which we are not able to achieve, and don't say that it is not, that there are no missing analyses and that these solutions are not based on these analyses. Allow me. When we talk about IT maintenance experts, it would be great if we could get a job at every school. It is true that in that part of the school, we have an extremely well - equipped view, since we have prepared well among other things for national graduation. Primary schools are less equipped with information equipment, and if we have a need somewhere to hire an entire person, that's great, but it's not exactly like that everywhere. But let's just say it is, we should hire a thousand and three hundred and eight new experts and create so many new jobs. For these new jobs we need on the basis of one year 123 million and 168 thousand kuna. We must honestly say that we are unable to, say, secure those funds in the next year and hire those experts. For these reasons, we had to move that performance coefficient by a later date. It's based on an analysis of very specific numbers, on needs, and I honestly said that. So this solution that we have here, believe it's done that way. And for these very reasons, we're going with these solutions, not anymore, maybe next year, maybe next year it's going to have to change in some other part, maybe even raise standards, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57213	Thank you. Correction of the quote, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57214	Mr. Secretary of State has incorrectly claimed that all schools are not well equipped, which is not true. All schools are well equipped, they all have swimming pools, they have halls, they have kitchens, and they need to inform the Prime Minister that you have deceived the public here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57215	No more. ... No, you can't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, yes. And by the way, it's a correction to an incorrect assumption. Even though it's too late, though it's hot, it's very hot. And that's why I have an understanding. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57216	We move to the Proposal for amendments to the National Pedagogical Standard of Preschool Education and Education, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. Mr. Željir Janjic, State Secretary. Oh, no, Mrs. Diana Vican, State Secretary, I'm sorry. It is up to you to enter into force on the amendment to Article 3. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57217	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57218	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to amend the National Pedagogical Standard of Preschool Education and Education. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal changes the state pedagogical standard was accepted by the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, no abstentions and 41 against, together with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57219	We are now moving to a united discussion for the next three points, which are - Proposal for amendments to the National Pedagogical Standard of Preschool Education and Education - Proposal for amendments to the State Pedagogical Standard of Primary Education and Education - Proposal for amendments to the State Pedagogical Standard of the Secondary Education and Education System The promoter of these proposals is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You took the materials into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received reports from those committees at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposals, or the proposals for these amendments? Dear Secretary of State Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57220	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here I will really try to get through our amendments and additions to state pedagogical standards from pre-school to high school systems as quickly as possible. He's at least in preschool. So we propose here to delete the parts of the provisions in those articles where each is said to be effective after a five-year period. In the table view of the performance coefficient, we suggest that the number of children in the educational group be a coefficient of two. That means 2012. There was one, that the number of professional associates given the number of educational groups would be two and that the quality system of preschool education and education would be a coefficient of zero because last time it was simply left out of this figure. In the proposal to amend the pedagogical standard of primary education, we propose that the second subparagraph of Article 10 of the formula be changed and that the student with developmental difficulties is a student with an appropriate form of schooling, of course. In the second article, add another new item, including schools in health care institutions. In the third article, we are talking about the size of parent schools. So, parent schools because we've introduced a category of parent and district schools and I'm asking you to keep in mind that we don't cancel any existing schools. With all these schools, children will continue to study as they have been, but that we want to realize where the status of that school needs to be changed and if it is a very small school in time until 2017, such school will assign the status of the regional school for the reasons mentioned above. It will not apply linearly to everyone in the country of Croatia, and I therefore call on you to the fourth article of the third article where it is said: "The primary school with district schools or district departments can be established with at least 150 pupils, except primary schools with difficult working conditions, primary schools that conduct education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, educational and educational institutions in which a special programme for students with difficulties or dislocated schools, private schools with the right of the public, or because of some other specificities at the request of the founders, with the consent of the ministry. So, to understand each other the way you've had the opportunity to see it in the press today, it's a misinformation and it's actually a single article that isn't at all, whose author hasn't even read what's written here. Furthermore, in Article 4, we say that the optimal number of students in the class section is 20 to 28. It was 14. We erased this. So, there wouldn't be any false interpretations. But I will remind you that the above figure is reduced by three for each student who is integrated, right, students with difficulties and that there can be three students the most. But also, also by respecting all these specificities, we can't expect some elementary school on one of our islands that has a very small number of students, and even below 10, so one class department that we're going to question. Of course, we won't question him because it's a special feature and I'm asking you to keep that in mind, so if you need to go to the public and get that information out. I'm asking you to do it anyway. So far in the combined class department of three to four classes, we've said that there can't be a single student who's having difficulties and who's involved. Now we open up that possibility that it can be, because for God's sake what we're going to do if he has nowhere else to go to send him somewhere far away. We also add one part in Article 6 relating to the extended stay organised in the morning and all other activities after the completion of the course. In Article 7, we are talking about the construction of new school facilities, but we are adding the formulation that this applies equally to both construction and reconstruction, and in any case we want this to be the result of one analysis of demographic movements. Simply put, it would not be a good idea to create a modern facility with high pedagogical standards, with all the required classrooms, and we know that in 10 years, there may not be a student, perhaps half of what they currently have. And in Article 8, we add the possibility that in those small schools where we have so far predicted that we should have a specialized classroom for Croatia, for the mother tongue of the national minority, for the foreign language each classroom separately. Here in small schools we allow the possibility of it being one where they can teach themselves. So, of course the alterations will use it. We delete the provision of Articles 40 and 41 of the obligation to learn how to ride a bicycle or swim. We know that one part of the school is doing it and they're going to implement it in the future, but as an explicit obligation to prescribe it, and not to execute it, maybe it's not the best solution. So, all those in the future who can do it are open to them, but we do not explicitly prescribe that this must be so. When it comes to performance coefficients for professional associates instead of coefficients two we propose a coefficient of three due to known circumstances. Also, criteria for space and equipment in elementary school and for the nutrition of students, and to be clear conditions for setting up parent and district departments, this is what is new, is the coefficient 3. So until 2017, to be gradual, not to be some sudden cut and to question both jobs and everything else and, of course, to other workers. And allow me a little bit more about high school education. The first article also discusses home - to - day district schools. Thus, it is also eight grade departments and 150 students, with the fact that we have not touched the formulation referred to in the third article, which says secondary schools for rare occupations, art schools, language schools and letters of national minorities, schools for students with disabilities, schools in islands and in areas of special state care, in mountain and mountain areas and private schools with public rights can also be organised with a smaller number of classrooms. We didn't change that. Further, the article discusses the square of the cleaning area in schools. We're raising that square. So far there have been 500 and 600 square meters of dependence on whether it's laid on wood, i.e. a lot of oil, or there's central heating there now we suggest it's 700 and 800, for 200 squares more. So mostly when it comes to new spaces, we really need to bring it into line with higher education and science where we have a square that was much bigger than it was in primary and secondary schools before, there's no reason not to be the same. But notice, and when it comes to this provision and there's going to be a performance coefficient of 3, so by 2017 and where we have surpluses, we're going to solve them in two ways, the first time someone goes into retirement and we already have indicators for this and the next year, so no one's going to be out of work, but the job is going to be shut down, according to the new standards, and when it comes to current surpluses, we have to honestly admit it, so on the current surpluses, we're going to reroute them to those school facilities where because of the familiar situation we haven't approved new jobs. So if we have 20 kilometers from Zagreb of a new sports hall, which is recently completed, there is no approved place of work for cleanliness in those halls, we will move them from those schools where the extras are moved there. That's how we're actually going to solve this. The same applies to the boiler room norm, and that's where we delete that provision. It's said it's to 400 students. We really didn't do it well, now we're talking about 3,000 squares, so one, one average size of our school, and that's something that's quite enough. And what we need in the second shift to protect against fire will be realized in accordance with that provision that speaks of 25%, so even where one school in another shift is needed can be covered by one person, so they will previously have a job in one school, and one part of the working time at another school, it is a cumulative working relationship that is perfectly normal and famous, they know best, let's say our music culture teachers who have to work for, in several schools have a cumulative working relationship. And I won't repeat myself, when it comes to these conditions of construction, construction or reconstruction, we'll also allow in those smaller schools the possibility that one specialized unsub can actually serve more objects, we think it's rational and that's why we'll leave it that way. Therefore, there are coefficients of 3 to 2017, and we hope that such a one-step approach will make sure that we achieve those goals that we set before us with this one dynamic system rationalise. I'm going to end up being sure we're all interested in making this system better. It's also good because of those who are currently in power, and it's just as good because of those other governments that are going to be in a position to edit this. So for these reasons, it seems to us that we should all be for these, for these adjustments, and for the real setting of the goals, which are appropriate to this situation, because sometimes when we were talking about state pedagogical standards, opportunities were still something different, so maybe the bar rose a little bit more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57221	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57222	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Representatives, Here is a debate on the proposal to amend the state pedagogical standard of pre-school education and education, primary education and secondary education and education systems as united deserves our attention, but I think we have already touched all the important elements around pedagogical standards, and I am also experiencing the Croatian Democratic Community club only strengthening the function of pedagogical standards and some elements that will enhance more effective monitoring. I can tell by the systems, so when it comes to preschool periods, preschool standards of education, then it's touched by a void that's possible to create... deadlines concerning the number of children in education and education, educated from 2011 to 2013, the possibility of meeting for the reasons that some founders have highlighted problems with their reports on the implementation of the provisions of this standard. [[You don't understand.]] It is also important here to say the number of professional associates who want to be completed, that these standards and standards from K1 are also relocated to 2013. Those are the two important improvements I would say, so I can comply with the standards. With regard to the primary school system, there are most changes, there are one 12, 13 so I'll just mention some. First of all, the definition of students with developmental difficulties is prescribed, for which we determine an appropriate form of schooling. Article 2 is then prescribed the already existing possibility of achieving educational work in a health care institution. Article 3 provides that the primary school can be formed with at least 8 classrooms and about 150 pupils. I have nothing to add here, because today we've discussed it well. Article 4 provides for the optimal number of students in class section 20, maximum number of students 28. Article 5 is amended as follows: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 7 provides for a way of planning and more rational normative for the construction and equipment of schools. Article 8 provides for the possibility of teaching in the common classroom depending on the number of students. In Article 9 of this change, they consistently ensure optimal classroom size, given the age of students, psychophysical abilities, teaching methods, optimal distance from the school board, and compliance with legal regulations in terms of classroom lighting. So very, very detailed, etc. Therefore, all of these are in Article 12. For example, it relates to the performance coefficient, determines the feasibility coefficient for the employment of professional associates in primary schools, and, in accordance with other regulations, it is necessary to add an expert on the educational rehabilitation direction. So these are, you can see very professional categories, so the state pedagogical standard is improving in this area. I'd just like to say one more thing about the high school system. In this area, the proposed amendments to the application of normatives are in line with the economic recovery measures for more rational employment of non-teaching staff. This is particularly important in addition to the number of workers in auxiliary technical work, non-teaching staff and experts who maintain computer-informatic equipment. The proposal to amend the same performance coefficient and to allocate to that extent the performance coefficient 3, this means until 2017. That's how that deadline was extended. The law on vocational education is definitely a burden on students of the first class of vocational schools by means of a practical course and the proposal to amend standards in that section is necessary given the fact that the standard was adopted before that law. There, it is a spirit that changes, or repairs, and makes the state’s pedagogical standard more effective. In the end, I just want to say that we support these changes and that the HDZ club will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57223	Thank you. SDP club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57224	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, but perhaps a little bit at the end of this afternoon's debate on education, unfortunately, the SDP Representatives Club will not be able to support any of these proposals to amend the state pedagogical standards and I will state the reasons for both the second and the third. However, earlier, Ms. Secretary of State Diana Vica said that changes in education are due to good will in education policy. Good will is what mathematicians would need, but not enough conditions. Changes in education policy, with good will as a necessary condition, must be met by at least two other conditions. And this is that this policy of education that implements these changes is professional and others that it has the ability to provide financial resources for the implementation of changes. So good will alone, unfortunately, isn't enough as much as we might want. Now, as far as specific changes are concerned. Compared to the proposal for amendments to the pedagogical standards of pre-school education and education, the proposal proposes to postpone by the end of 2013, we had in the original by the end of 2011, the application of standards relating to the number of children in the educational group and the number of professional associates in terms of the number of children, i.e. educational groups. We simply cannot support this change because it is indeed a big problem. Overcrowded kindergartens and an insufficient number of professional associates who work with children and in the growing crisis of the family simply don't need a problem that we don't need the standard to be fulfilled in a way that we can now postpone the application so that we have an excuse why we haven't done something but we need to go to an urgent solution. The additional argument is also an indication of the applicant we had in the Standard Implementation Report that it was not even meeting the standards prescribed in '83. A year. So, we're now standards from '83. Let me put it this way. We're going for 2013 and we've had them in the original until 2011. I think that fact is devastating enough, and I'm afraid that if we don't secure financial resources, we help those founders, or local units that can't do it ourselves, and we don't co-finance that we simply won't do anything good. As regards the proposal to amend standards in primary and secondary education, first in primary education. So, it is already mentioned here that it is proposed to introduce a minimum condition for a parent school with a regional school. We've heard a lot of speculation about how many of these schools are here. In Croatia we have 73 schools with fewer than 100 students, we have 271 schools with 100 to 300 students. Somehow, our assessment says that without a press release, it would lead to a change of status to about 100 schools. We fully agree with all those exceptions relating to minority schools, island schools, schools in areas of special state care, etc. But are we really interested in whether a simulation has been done and how much will school change its status by applying this measure? If we have so many exceptions, and we have because these little schools mostly fall under some of these exceptions, we're afraid we're making a big panic over 3, 4 or maybe just 5, 6 schools. How many schools are it really, and what schools are they? I hope those simulations exist. The more the standards do not prescribe what the upper limit is for school, the more we have had examples in Zagreb before these standards of large schools, for example schools in Dugava which were then separated because of standards, there are 2 or 3 institutions in the same building. For the second reason, Article 7 of the amendment de facto suspends the work of schools in one shift, i.e. the decision on whether we will have school in one or more shifts, or whether we are going to build such a school actually depends on a good part on the arbitration of people in the Ministry of Science, i.e. on tables and goodwill of the Secretary of State for Finance, and it simply cannot be good enough to make a decision. The third reason why we cannot support this proposal is in line with the amendment of Article 9 of the basic school DPS. In view of the reduction of classroom squares, but much more important than that, the functional connection of the classroom with some kind of doptics or forms of work needed to achieve the plan and programme is deleted. I'm sorry that in all these discussions on pedagogical standards, no one actually mentioned and why we are even discussing buildings, squares, classrooms and the like. The school is simply a functional building and how you in the National Girlcullum claim a way of learning and teaching should therefore draw a building and also a classroom square. If our little girl's teaching is frontal, of course our classroom's square is smaller. If we define ourselves to work in groups, working in pairs, etc., then we simply need to make the classroom square. And it's not something that comes to mind from Mars like this, it just has to be conditioned by a national girl, and so to say the recommended ways of learning and teaching. And now there's been a re-expression of what we've been warning from the SDP for years, which is that we've done a lot of things in education backwards. The things we were supposed to bring at the end we brought at the beginning. Some things that should have preceded everything, which is the National Girlculum we still don't have, and with that we're still cooking. The fourth reason why we will not support these changes of DPS for primary school is in art. 12th since it's art. 12. postpones the application of standards for the employment of educators, psychologists, professional education and rehabilitation profiles, librarians and health workers in accordance with the standards from the end of 2012 until the end of 2017. In a situation of growing violence among children, we can't solve the problem by saying look, we wrote it that it should actually be, but we're not going to do it now because we also wrote that we're going to do it there in 2017. 2017 is in 7 years. Or six-and-a-half, so a good part of the kids who are going to school now are going to finish their education and they simply won't benefit from it at all. Secondly, Article 12 prolongs the deadline for meeting the criteria for space and equipment for new schools, for new schools that we are building right now, that is logical if we are building new schools that you will immediately build by standards, for these new schools standards for space and equipment we will implement by the end of 2017. Which we're going to build some kind of school smaller and then, by the way, by 2107, we're going to be harmonizing with the standards, it doesn't make sense. Also, the obligation to organize a student's diet that was to be realized by the end of 2012 with which we saw at the last point that we have a lot of problems to implement by the end of 2017 I will not repeat here that in fact most of our children do not have a warm meal at school and all the consequences that are related to it. And the last reason why we won't support changes of DPS in primary school is because hiring other workers, these are helpers in teaching for children with developmental difficulties, accounting secretary, housekeepers, janitors, school masters chefs and similar prolongings by the end of 2017. Now regarding this untrained staff, if without them schools can work, by 217, why hire them in the first place after 2017. If they are important to achieve national curricula, then they should be hired immediately. It's just something that doesn't just have some kind of specific logic and we can't support it. As for the proposal to amend the DPS for secondary schooling, we cannot support them for the following reasons, as well as in primary schooling, it is proposed to introduce a minimum condition for parent school, so 8 departments and 150 students, at the same time we do not establish the maximum criterion for school size, or how many of the largest schools can have children. And we're also interested here in how many really high schools that have now been parenting will, by applying this standard, have a change in that status. If this applies to music schools, dance schools and such, we would be interested in what schools are actually involved. Secondly, another reason lies in increasing the standards for cleaning women. As much as it may seem to anyone about this, the issue of maintaining the cleanliness and hygiene of school space, or in school hygiene, is not exactly the same as maintaining hygiene in another public space. YES kids, I don't know when you last went to school to have kids sitting on the floor, let me have some of these banalities they're rolling around on the floor, so the school has special requirements for disinfection of school space etc., it doesn't quite matter. And we now have a cleaning lady, and I'm suggesting that one cleaning lady cleans 800 squares, where we have 800 square meters, where we have central heating, I'm curious how much of our cleaning room here in the House has to clean up our office spaces. So if we agree somewhere that we all have to and have to work more, then we think there's got to be some kind of consistency and some kind of connectivity and it still seems to us that somehow whoever gets hurt first is the schools. Secondly, it was mentioned by Mr. Secretary of State in the opening exhibition, the standard is abolished that schools that have boiler rooms, and there are plenty of schools, and they would be surprised that in fact more than those with central heating have one janitor per shift already the whole story connects to the square, one to three thousand squares. It's somewhat meaningful that these boiler rooms aren't potentially dangerous, not just because of the fire, Mr. Secretary of State's cumulative working relationship I'm afraid they won't solve all your problems, because our schools are mostly working on two shifts. I wonder what if something happens at this time, here's half seven o'clock in the evening, it's the duration of this last six hours of teaching, there's got to be just one person at school who can spin a valve if something goes on to prevent some major tragedy and the explosion is simply a matter of security. As banal as it may seem, they would simply not want to read in the news that for the sake of saving 5 or 10 people who have on the way, be told very small wages we question the safety of children. The third reason why we cannot support changes in the DPS for secondary school is found in Article 10, where again similar to in primary school de facto, the work of schools in one shift is suspended, i.e. the decision on whether the school will work in one or two shifts leaves the arbitration of officials or state secretary who has very powerful tables in the Ministry of Science and I repeat, has driven many leaders of local self-government units and regionals who wanted to build their schools. And the last reason is in Article 8 where, in fact, from the zero coefficient, we are prolonging the employment of computer maintenance experts and IT equipment immediately by the end of 2017. We've heard that so far we haven't hired any of them because the Ministry didn't bring in a rule that would make it possible for them to sign up. I ask you colleagues and colleagues who have fought those decisions have been boasting from the Ministry in recent years that a lot has been done in the purchase of information equipment, if we have dragged into the schools the information equipment that we may be most inadequately using in terms of learning and teaching, if we do not have experts who would care about maintenance of these equipment that is quite expensively paid for, which is what it is really all about, and it seems to us that these people should be employed immediately, and then perhaps some problems with the e-matrix that some people had at the end of this school year might be smaller, we might be better resolved. And the last reason why we cannot support the DPS for secondary school is that by the end of 2017 the application of standards related to the application of construction criteria and equipment of newly built schools is prolonged. So again similar illogicalness, if we have a newly built school logically that it must be built immediately by standard provisions, so there should be K0 right away, we really do not understand why newly built schools, so the schools we are building must be compared to the standards by 2017. We find it easier to make the school as it belongs immediately than then to build it, stick some annexes to it to establish the standards. The only thing that doesn't exist in these standards of change, and the people on the ground have told us that it really needs to be changed in the State Pedagogue Standards that are prescribed squares for other spaces. It's for dining rooms, entrance space, stuff like that. We have dimensional dining rooms per square or square and a half per student, although our students eat in shifts, at least those who have the luck to have a kitchen and a meal at school. And we are very sorry that once the changes had already taken place they did not do as the proposals of the people on the ground were. And I repeat in the end, please just don't forget, schools are functional buildings, the primary function is that they serve the goals of the National Curricula. And only if we have the National Curricula and with the objectives of achieving the National Curiculum-related buildings can we actually expect the whole system to work and then these state pedagogical standards make sense. Otherwise, we do some things that we spend a lot of money on, and we're not really sure where this whole adventure is going to lead us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57225	Thank you. The HSS club, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As we all know, the basic objective of the standard is to create equal working conditions as assumptions to ensure better quality of education for children and young people, in line with their needs, interests and abilities. The past period of its application has led to an improvement in the overall pedagogical activity in accordance with the prescribed criteria, has ensured the achievement of a certain level of objectives set and has ensured approximately equal development conditions in educational and educational institutions. It also showed all the advantages, but also certain legal gaps and shortcomings, so now it is time for them to be corrected. Since 2005 a major step has been made to date in preschool education and 182 kindergartens have been built, thus increasing the coverage of kindergarten children to 58% and even 99% of children are covered by preschool programmes. When it comes to elementary schools, it should be said that there are 875 regulars in the Republic and those with a special programme, but 143 schools or institutions have fewer than 150 students. The existence of small schools of privilege is different and happier economic situations, as they certainly significantly raise the cost of the functioning of the education system as a whole which in the current crisis situation is not possible to ignore. As a result, these changes and additions to the pedagogical standard propose modified norms which would lose that status to some parent schools and will function as regional schools to contribute to rationalisation and cutting unnecessary costs. Another newspaper is being introduced, which is that the current standard in the combined class section of 3.4 class could not have included a student with developmental difficulties, and since such children are relatively poorly involved in society, it further made it difficult to socialise these children. In order to correct this error, the proposed amendment and complementarity of the pedagogical standard proposes to include such children in the combined classes, thus making the combined classes characteristic for small school districts with fewer students, and the release of children with developmental difficulties from such small collectives only causing additional difficulties for both parents and children themselves. The pedagogical standard requires that a diet be organised for students and adequate standardized areas for their diet. Since the current economic situation currently makes it impossible to address this issue in quality by proposing amendments, it is proposed to organise a student's diet without at the same time being related to the preparation of food in the school kitchen itself. This way, diet will be organised for children, while not at the same time entering major investment projects, nor will there be a need for additional employment of non-teaching staff. For the sake of reduced inflow of funds and implementation of the economic programme, it is prescribed that the primary secondary school can be formed, i.e. to be formed with at least eight classrooms and at least 150 students, with exceptions to music, dance and schools for members of national minorities or secondary schools located on islands and in areas of special state care. Also, the pedagogical standard provides for prolonging the employment of computer maintenance experts, IT equipment and increasing standards for workers in assistive and technical jobs. In addition, compliance is carried out with the Law on Professional Education in the section that prescribes the burden on students of the first class of vocational schools with practical instruction, which was later adopted. After the short changes and additions to the teaching standard, we can say that we understand also the critics in part when they view the above-mentioned provisions in a timid way and that rationalisation also hides certain rights, jobs and so on. But at the same time, we need to be prepared for certain cuts, especially in part of the irrationality. If it's ever time for rational treatment, these are moments of crisis when opportunities are reduced. We believe that we are not in a position to stick our heads in the sand and that it is necessary that we are absolutely all carrying part of the crisis on our backs which, of course, is not always easy, but mature people and mature societies, and I consider Croatia to be a mature society and, in such difficult conditions, know how to survive a particular situation, and the problematic experiences serve them to gather ranks, rationalise problems, acquire experiences and find the right solutions. Therefore, the HSS Club will support the proposal to amend the state pedagogical standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57227	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57228	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Given that the previous point and this point are very closely connected, I would have started with one sentence, which was presented by the Secretary of State in its final statement. I'm sorry it's here for us. Her statement reads: The ministry is not obliged to prepare deep data analyses required by the opposition. I have to admit that I couldn't trust my ears when I heard that, because if the ministry, not just the ministry, but us, here is not only criticism at the expense of the government, but also us all sitting here, not that we're doing deep analysis and based exclusively on deep analysis and objective numbers, arguments, very clear, making moves then how we're going to do. Therefore, only a deep analysis and exclusively objective data and only such decisions. So let me just say right at the beginning, if we're going to work the way she suggested then we can't accept it. Yeah, some agencies, someone on the side of us doing some study, it's really sad. The objection to us is that at the beginning of this point no one in front of either the parent or the other committee has appeared to make clear to us the position of those who are very interested here. I will ask only one question and develop a brief discussion around it. Who, colleagues and colleagues, does it concern to change the State Pedagogue Standard? Who's it to? It's about cities, municipalities, founders' county, they're all about them. Who does it concern to transport students, homes, diets, textbooks? It's about the parents. It's all about them. Who does the knowledge and skills acquired at school concern? It concerns students and employers. Because that clearly depends on their future. According to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, we cannot and should never pass laws, change regulations of any kind, even standards in this case, without agreeing well, we should not agree in detail with representatives of local and regional self-government. That job was supposed to be done in part by our board, but also by the ministry. I haven't heard any more serious attitudes related to such an analysis of the attitudes of cities and municipalities that we hit directly on the pocket. Next, parents. There are school boards. It's not hard to get to the parent's point of view. With a little effort everything can be done correctly. Employers should be able to talk directly to the Croatian Employers' Association or through the Chamber of Commerce or in countless other ways. So that's what we're asking at the HNS Club, HSU, basically in the future when we're making these changes, that we're really doing a proper depth analysis, regardless of what the secretary of state thinks is completely irrelevant. That's all that matters to us. If this is not the case, then it comes to the situation in which Croatia is in 2010, because we made moves based on these or those arguments or on half arguments, based on feelings, intuition, but never on the basis of real facts, based on which we have drawn all the moves of the past ten, fifteen years. Unfortunately, it's just such a drastically bad approach that we heard earlier, and here it has led us to the situation in which we are today and I really ask you colleagues to try to correct our work, let's really try to bring as many objective parameters as possible, so it won't be difficult in that case for you to support me and me with your proposal because then I think we'll absolutely have a different course of our discussions and a different outcome of our decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57229	Thank you. An individual debate. There's still one representative. Mr. Representative Mario Habek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57230	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are facing changes in the teaching standards of preschool education, basic school and secondary education systems. Why am I stressing that? Because the Ministry of Science and Education and Sport that brings these changes could add another area name to me, which is fire. Why the fire department? For the simple reason that Minister Fuchs, and his predecessors, are not able to give clear, recognizable and modern orientations in this important sector of governance within the government, but is regularly forcing us to adopt fire-fighting measures in school and for what? Because Prime Minister Kosor ordered ministers to cut their budgets, so Minister Fuchs decided to cut into education. It seems that our minister is also in the information blockade, so he did not hear that modern countries that hold to their development, which is only possible through investment in the education system in the crisis, also increases investment in education, and cuts on some other indivisible items. It is only evidence that this ministry is headed by a minister without a vision of the development of a Croatian school that does not know and cannot introduce Croatia into the European Union's education system. I come from a county that has almost fully reached pedagogical standards by avoiding these famous and strange performance coefficients. In Varazdin County, almost all schools have reached the standard of one shift course with large investments in the county and cities themselves and municipalities without the ministry. I come from the county where the average class has 19 students with whom teachers, teachers can make it easier to achieve a plan and programme. I come from the county where all the children eat in their schools about the cost of cities and municipalities, and in some schools they are waiting for a healthy milk meal and cereals in the morning. I come from a county where all high school students have subsidized transportation to their schools, so parents can worry more easily about the concerns this government serves on a daily basis, not thinking whether they can collect 800, 1500 or 2000 kuna for a single student's monthly ticket. I don't have to stress specifically that these costs are not borne by the ministry, but by the county, the cities and the municipalities. I come from a county where education is one of the most important strategic development goals, so the County Assembly recently made a decision on a network of secondary schools, where it envisioned two completely new secondary schools in Ludbreg and Novi Marof. The proposal to amend the pedagogical standards of the primary school and secondary school system of education proposes to introduce a minimum condition for parent school with a field school by the number of students, which ultimately leads to the abolition of over 100 schools in the Republic of Croatia. The answer will now be sure to do so because of what, that is, some kuna in a field school that does not have an employee headmaster. We know it's nonsense. However, I must stress that I have been chosen as the fire-breathing minister of Fuchs to do more harm than used to figuratively express myself in the school garden of the Varazdin County. I'm afraid Prime Minister Kosor doesn't turn home schools into small and poor municipalities into district schools, some of the schools 20 miles away. This would sometimes mean the abolition of the only civil institution in the municipality that organizes not only educational, but also cultural facilities for its residents. I hope this government knows how to tell citizens, for example, otherwise you set an example... That their school is no longer called High School, but the New Marof Elementary School. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, with the proposal to amend the pedagogical standards of preschool education, education is proposed to postpone the application of standards relating to the number of children in the educational group and the number of professional associates in view of the number of educational groups by the end of 2013. This is unacceptable because these problems need to be solved as quickly as possible, not delaying their solution. How the government thinks to save the state's savings fund in education I'm going to give another example. In Varazdin County we also have a network of basic music schools with a central secondary music school which is one of the best in the country. Every year we try to enroll more and more children in this electoral content so that we will not only musically respond to these successful musicians such as Tomislav Mužek, Dubravka Krušelj and Ruža Popić, but also introduce into the music world a lot of children who will be able to recognize the real musical values and say not to the music ham that bombes us every day. But you're in vain trying to play what the Prime Minister said the other day. We save, we don't hire new teachers and teachers. And so it happens to you that at Ludbreg Elementary Music School, 33 children are registered in the first class, but can only receive them 5, because the government can't hire new teachers. So much for the vision, so much for the welfare of the children of the deputy and so much for the welfare of this country. And in the end I have to draw one sentence from the explanation of the proposal to amend the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools which are... and deserves to be heard once again, I quote today we have home schools with very few students in whom education is very expensive and irrational. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, you can't have an education, so one child can't be irrational. I would take the liberty of reshaping this terrifying finding and saying that today we have a government... by a small number of members who, for us citizens, are irrational and expensive, and I suggest that we change it as soon as possible and put it out of force. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57231	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Željir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's to letting respected MPs and MPs thank you for all the debates so far and to say that we will consider all the amendments that have arrived until the moment when it is voted on and see what we can accept. But allow just a few words to refer to the debate on behalf of the clubs and in individual debates. I'll start with this individual debate because it's the freshest. Dear Representative Habek, it's nice to hear that in one county we have such a situation in schools, that we have such an average of students per grade department, that there are so many investments, but it's not true that there was no investment from the state budget with all the efforts from the county and cities and municipalities and it's undeniable. On the other hand, our cooperation with the Varazdin County I dare say more than good, more than good and for example many counties. So when you started mentioning certain schools, and we introduced a category of parent and district schools here. Three years ago, we started with a dislocated department of economists in Novi Marof, so a high school that implements primary school teaching, and then this year, at the request of the county, we agreed to do it with the high school department, so another department. And success is good. Likewise, and with Ludbreg, we agreed to do so. Well, of course at one school we'll have two departments, counting on the fact that a few years goes a little bit more, but not still eight and still not 150 students. Of course, such a school can have the status of a regional school, but it's a win-win for a newmarofic end anyway. So it's going to be the same for the ludicrous end, but we can't expect to say now that it's going to be the parent school that's going to have in Ludbreg, let's say a class department. But it can't, and that's what I'm talking about rationality, and that rationality has been accepted by yours in the county. It's quite in place. So we take good care of it. And something that you can boast about, but we, too, by working together and by doing these results that we've achieved because it didn't work out without us. When you talk about music school, of course by appreciating all the high anniversary as has music school in Varazdin, you know well last year, that we are ready to be quality support, but there is something we must honestly say here, which we are not able to achieve, and don't say that it is not, that there are no missing analyses and that these solutions are not based on these analyses. Allow me. When we talk about IT maintenance experts, it would be great if we could get a job at every school. It is true that in that part of the school, we have an extremely well - equipped view, since we have prepared well among other things for national graduation. Primary schools are less equipped with information equipment, and if we have a need somewhere to hire an entire person, that's great, but it's not exactly like that everywhere. But let's just say it is, we should hire a thousand and three hundred and eight new experts and create so many new jobs. For these new jobs we need on the basis of one year 123 million and 168 thousand kuna. We must honestly say that we are unable to, say, secure those funds in the next year and hire those experts. For these reasons, we had to move that performance coefficient by a later date. It's based on an analysis of very specific numbers, on needs, and I honestly said that. So this solution that we have here, believe it's done that way. And for these very reasons, we're going with these solutions, not anymore, maybe next year, maybe next year it's going to have to change in some other part, maybe even raise standards, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57233	Thank you. Correction of the quote, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57234	Mr. Secretary of State has incorrectly claimed that all schools are not well equipped, which is not true. All schools are well equipped, they all have swimming pools, they have halls, they have kitchens, and they need to inform the Prime Minister that you have deceived the public here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57235	No more. ... No, you can't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, yes. And by the way, it's a correction to an incorrect assumption. Even though it's too late, though it's hot, it's very hot. And that's why I have an understanding. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57236	We are going to propose amendments and additions to the National Pedagogical Standard of Primary Education and Education, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representative Marija Lugaric. I would like the motionary's representative, State Secretary Ms. Vican, to declare the amendments of her representative, Maria Lugaric. First, the amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57237	The amendment to Article 3 shall not be accepted by the following reasons. In fact, already in the existing standard in Article 6(5), the school in which education work is accomplished in two shifts can have a maximum of 32 grade departments, showing that a maximum number of grade departments that should be 32 have already been introduced, with the possibility of exceptions and with the agreement of the competent ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57238	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57239	Madam Secretary of State I expected you to show yourself to a more important part of my amendment, which is actually a proposal for the ministry to give up the status of small schools as parent schools. In many places, these more than there are numerous exceptions this measure will simply produce a major storm, and will not bring any positive effect, so I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57240	Thank you. Who is for this amendment 1? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment to the article of that same representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57241	He doesn't accept with the following explanation. Since it is small schools where there can be between 5 and 10 students, it is unwarranted to separate students from their peers in a special classroom, which can mean that one student must be alone in the classroom or should travel to another school, which we do not consider justified for pedagogical reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57242	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57243	Dear Madam Secretary of State, of course it's not entirely pedagogical. However, it is also totally pedagogical that in three classes or four classes for non-professional colleagues, so one teacher teaches first, second, third and fourth classes at the same time. You have another child with developmental difficulties. So you're driving five programs. If you don't have one adjusted in 45 minutes. It's really hard for people, I mean it's just hard to work. However, if you insist that people working in three grade and four class combinations can also lead a tailored plan, work on a tailored programme for students with developmental difficulties. If you think that's what you're doing to your children, then I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57244	Retracted? This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. Third amendment of the same agent to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57245	It is not accepted with the following explanation. In a number of cases, depending on predictable demographic, economic and urban conditions, the cost of investments in schools working on a single shift should be assessed. The buildings are built for a future period of 50 to 80 years, and unfortunately demographic changes in most of the registration areas in the Republic of Croatia are known because, unfortunately, every year, the number of children is decreasing. All the urban areas of the Republic of Croatia are also exposed to changes in urban requirements, and it is known that the number of students in the registration area is changing depending on trends in economic development. The proposer therefore proposes to retain this proposal in order to ensure and make public money effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57246	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57247	Mrs. Vican, I'm not sure you've explained the amendment to article 6 about the shift for an extended stay but well. So, you suggested in the standard proposal that children who have a stay class have in the morning, and stay only this afternoon. And that's fine, except most of our schools still work on two shifts. The stay is organized according to your rules and practice for first and second grade. This would mean, in practice, that you actually have kids who go to third and fourth grade have to go to school all the time because the first and second ones have to go in the morning because they have to have a shift in the afternoon. If you think it's okay, and I personally find it totally unacceptable that most people here don't think it, they don't accept professional arguments, then I'm withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57248	Third amendment withdrawn. Thank you. The fourth amendment of the same agent to Article 7 shall apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57249	Yeah, I'm sorry. I read in article 7 so I didn't repeat myself. I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57250	Mrs. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57251	Madam Secretary of State here I will request a vote on the amendment. In fact, you suggest that you from the ministry decide whether a school will work on one shift or not. We have a state-declared policy to work in one shift because it's better for the quality of the education process. So our leaders who build schools, so investors, mayors, plan schools, find funds, find money, build architectural projects, and then you will, on some of your tables and your arbitration decisions, decide whether or not to work in one shift. So far, many of the investments have stood up and many schools have not been built, and many credits, credits, have not been withdrawn because of this arbitration that you have carried out against the provisions of the standard. Now you want to legalize it, and I don't think that's right, and it doesn't do any good for the quality of school, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57252	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The fifth amendment to Article 9 of the same MP?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57253	I'm sorry we can't accept it, but really for a very simple and clear reason that the proposed change does not reduce the classroom's square position compared to the current state of the classroom in previous classroom periods the classroom class class was 58 square meters, subject to 54, and specialized classrooms 70. It follows that the average area per student does not decrease from the current condition, and that the standard reduces the average number of students, i.e. a maximum of 28, results in an increase in the amount of space per student.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57254	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57255	Not exactly Madam Secretary of State, it's quite simple mathematics. But since the ministry still has not brought national curricula, and the size of the classroom should be functionally tied and with the implementation of the national curricula, I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57256	The amendment has been withdrawn. And the final amendment of Madam Representative to Article 12, sixth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57257	Article 12 The amendment to Article 12 shall be rejected. The Ministry is indeed aware of the importance of professional associates in educational work with students, and here it shows its awareness and shows systematic employment. They will continue to be employed, but according to the specificities of the school and the number of students. So she's not giving up, but she can't say at one point that all four or five professional associates are being employed by every school Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57258	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57259	This is Madam Secretary of State's very important subject. Our schools lack educators, psychologists, social workers. We've got more and more violence in schools. If you think this is important, if you have unanimous support here in the Croatian Parliament, then it can be right away. That's why I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57260	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. ... There's more? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No, thank the lady very much for her statement. I therefore vote on the amendment and addition of the state pedagogical standard of primary education system. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal to amend and supplement the state pedagogical standard of primary education system was accepted by most votes, 80 votes for, nothing abstention and 41 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57292	We are still going to the final point at this session - the final proposal of the Law on Elections of Members in the European Parliament, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 590 The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, European integration, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the HNS Club, the HSU, the representatives of Dragutin Lesar, Arsen Bauk and Neven Mimica. The Minister of Management Davorin Mlakar will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57293	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. The amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia also opened the space for the adoption, i.e. the proposal of the Law on Elections of Members in the European Parliament, the law which is ours and the obligation to comply with the acquis of the European Union, and one of the conditions of accession to the European Union. In this draft law, I would say there are some basic provisions, which is that the provisions of the Law on the selection of members in the European Parliament are aligned with the act on the selection of representatives of the European Parliament by direct decision on the basis of general electoral law as of 18 November 1999 and in February 2004, followed by Council Directive 93/109. of 06 December '93 and the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. It should be stressed that EU member states do not have a single electoral system but that each country is free to choose its own system, but with respect to the 3 conditions prescribed by the act on the selection of European Parliament representatives by direct decision on the basis of general voting law. And these 3 essential elements are that the electoral system must apply a proportional representation system either via the electoral lists or through the transmission voice system. The election area may be divided into election units provided that it does not significantly affect the proportionality of the electoral system and the electoral threshold at national level cannot be higher than 5%. This law fulfils all three of these conditions. The law is largely a law that knows how to conduct elections and for the Parliament. What is the difference and perhaps the most important thing to say is that the newspaper in this law is in relation to the solutions that we otherwise have, is that candidateing is done by proposing party lists or lists that propose to the voter. In the event they propose lists of voters, it is necessary to collect at least 5,000 voter signatures. The elections are prescribed by the President of the Republic, and the elections take place in a way that members of the European Parliament are elected by a proportionate representation and preferential vote. The preferred vote is this newspaper that we have introduced into this law, and it means in the shortest possible that voters, other than rounding the list, can round up one of the candidates on the lists that give priority over the other candidates. In this way, they can change the order of candidates proposed by political parties. Such a vote can only be given to one of the candidates, and in the event that he has at least 10% of the votes received, his position on the party's list is adequately changed, that is to say, on the European Parliament's list. This solution, for information and for comparison, has 15 Member States in its election legislation, namely Belgium, Denmark, Ireland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Slovakia, Finland, Sweden, Great Britain, Bulgaria, Romania and Austria. This is something we didn't have in our elections, it seemed to us that in this case, the Law for selecting members in the European Parliament could be put in place as a single voter's correction against what the political parties offered them. So that one candidate can be considered their own special choice and thus in some way signify him in the elections that his status on the party's list is adequately worth it. What is important to say for this law is also that the first elections for members of the European Parliament will be called after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, in accordance with the Treaty of Accession of the EU. After the signing of the EU Accession Treaty, the Assembly will appoint observers from the ranks of MPs to the European Parliament, a proportion of the part of the Croatian Parliament. This law is discussed in the Committee on the Constitution. We've received other amendments and clubs and representatives and tomorrow I assume there will be a vote on this law. By then, the government will have made an indication of the amendments submitted. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57294	Thank you. The committees? The Legislative Committee? The Committee on European Integration? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Vice President of the House, Neven Mimica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is, this bill is good and significant. It is good because in a systematic way, I would say, it unites everything that is in principle necessary to install in such laws on the selection of members of the European Parliament, resulting from the EU's legal regulation, and on the other hand it builds and needs not yet enough concrete implementing provisions for us, which then enable the elections to be actually implemented. When I say that this bill is good, then it doesn't mean it's great. To be excellent I think that perhaps one condition is not satisfied, and that is the fact that the government has requested his adoption in the emergency procedure, in one reading, so we are deprived of the possibility of a little more conversation, a little more think about what to do in that part of the concreteisation of the implementing measures in this election so that we may have said an impeccable system of elections for members of the European Parliament. I think that the time for those two readings was because of the very fact that this problem is, of course, entering into our alignment with the EU acquis. However, this problem itself does not fall into any of the 33 open chapters. They are not the conditions for closing any of those 33 open chapters, but will be discussed at the end of the negotiation process when those 2 remaining chapters are discussed, chapters on EU institutions. However, the amendments that have been tabled, and I think 14, 10 of the Constitution Committee and three or four others, have resulted in the exact time it will take to consider the amendments being longer than these few hours that will pass today from 19 to 10 p.m. tomorrow when a vote on this final draft of the law is expected. However, despite the fact that the amendment has a lot of us think that even in this short time, there are enough reasons for the applicant to seriously approach the examination of these amendments and then, in good faith, to install them in the Final Proposal of the Law in order to really get a law with which we can enter them without a problem and without further ado when the time comes for elections for members of the European Parliament or representatives of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia. As far as the SDP is concerned, of course, we will support this Final Bill proposal and expect the amendments of the Constitution Committee and those three amendments submitted by the members of the SDP Club to be considered seriously and adopted individually. I'd say now just a few words about those three topics that I think might have been in the final proposal better solved. It is a way of voting voters with a residence outside the Republic of Croatia, I do not think that the entire text of this law sees anywhere how they will exercise their rights, in which polling stations will exercise voting rights, so there should be a problem somewhere in Article 9 in an appropriate manner in line with the recent amendments to the Constitution then put into this Law. And the other two remarks, or the other two amendments on our benches, are more about political arithmetic, it is about how to calculate the mandate or divide the place, divide the mandates in the European Parliament according to the results of the elections. In fact, what is written in Article 26 on how to calculate the number of mandates for a single list is just the beginning of this arithmetic process, it is only the first step listed and I think that no professor of mathematics or better say no professor of mathematics would, based on what was written in Article 26, now be able to complete this process of calculating the division of the place. Perhaps someone would say so we know how to calculate further after the operation described in Article 26. However, there is nothing to know here, it should be written to the end of the entire mathematical calculation operation among the electoral lists, one of the amendments that has been submitted is doing just that in one precise way already seen in some other regulations dealing with similar issues. And lastly, the third remark is about a provision that seems to have really been introduced into our final bill from the three general obligations imposed on us by the European Legal Regulation, that is that the electoral threshold for all lists cannot be less than 5%, i.e. that only above 5% enters the site of the winning seats. However, we may be facing a theoretical situation here with elections when selecting less than 20 MPs, it is almost impossible either theoretically or hypothetically that with a 5% vote to make a list. We will have 11, 12 MPs and probably 7, 8, 9% will have the least need to have a list that will even bid to get some of the mandates or one mandate in this way of calculating. Of course, it is clear to me that hypothetically there is even the possibility that only two MPs should be elected, for example that there are 20 lists and then 22.23 lists have 4.5% and one list to have 5%, and then that list wins all mandates. However, it is so hypothetical that it seems to me that such a provision on the 5% electoral threshold only leads astray those who expect it to be a legal guarantee that with 5% it will get one seat in the European Parliament. But I repeat, in the end, I don't think we should be much obliged to do this, if not for this very similar bill, but for a year or more, then the main obstacle was that the Constitution was not adapted to such a legal or vice versa that such legal proposals were not adapted to the Constitution of that time, we now have the possibility and the constitutional basis to adopt this Law, but I say it would be good just because it was a little time from his, from the debate to the adoption of this Law that this short time would be used to see all the conjunctivities and all the need to bring those amendments to the Committee on the Constitution and those amendments that came from the members of the SDP Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57296	Thank you. Ms. Mariana Petir's club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57297	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, secretary of state. One of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia stemming from the National Programme for Accession to the European Union, Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental human rights is also to comply with the directives in the area of the right to vote and to run for the European Parliament. Therefore, this law should be adopted in order to prepare for the equal participation of Croatian citizens in political processes in the European Union in a timely manner. In addition to this proposal for a law governing the procedure and way in which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be elected by members of the European Parliament, it also prescribes the procedure for the exercise of the right to vote and to run in elections for the European Parliament for citizens of the Union who live in the Republic of Croatia and who are not its citizens. It would be good if the draft law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in the Parliament procedure by emergency procedure, had passed a public expert debate over its exceptional importance, and it would be also good if the competent state institutions such as the State Election Commission or interested NGOs dealing with this problem had the opportunity to participate in the drafting of the Law. It also seems to us by reading the Law that the Law is not fully in line with the Law on the List of Voters, which could later cause certain implementation problems. So we suggest that this part be reconciled once more. Members of the European Parliament are elected in direct elections, on the basis of a general free, equal voting right by a five-year secret vote. Their mandate is not binding, the elected members in the European Parliament vote individually and personally, and are not bound by any instructions. Article 10 sets out the question of incompatibility of members in the European Parliament with duties both in the European Union bodies and in the bodies of the Republic of Croatia, which regulates who can act in that capacity. The way members are elected to the European Parliament is also arranged and is proposed to be elected according to proportionate representation through the preferential vote, to vote through the candidate list and that the territory of the Republic of Croatia, including the polling stations, is one electoral unit. Lists that receive at least 5% of the votes cast have the right to participate in the share of members of the European Parliament, and the electoral implementation bodies are also prescribed and the funds for the cost of the elections are provided in the state budget and are available to the State Electoral Commission. The preferred votes for individual candidates are respected if the number of preferred votes of a particular candidate is at least 10% of the votes won by a single list. Those candidates who received the highest number of preferred votes were elected. This specifically means that voters on the list will be able to round the name and name of the representative or advocates they consider to be best represented and this seems to be one important newspaper, given the system we have in the Republic of Croatia today. I will give an example of the European Parliament MP Ana Zaborska, who proved herself through her mandate in the European Parliament as a democratic representative, protecting the general human values that her party has put on the list for the next term, so these recent elections are only a third place. Nevertheless, because of the preferred system, i.e. The ability of voters to round up the list of MPs or MPs they consider best represented by Ana Zaborska has been re-elected to the European Parliament, and some of her party colleagues who have pushed themselves in front of her have failed to join the European Parliament. In our opinion, the Proposer missed the law by the end and explained the way in which the votes were recalculated, and we see that a lot of amendments in this sense and the objections already addressed, in this way cannot be allocated to the mandates and our proposal is to really regulate it more precisely in order to make it clear how votes are recalculated into terms of mandates and to which decimals with which dealer. It is prescribed that the Ethics Commission assesses the behaviour of the participants in the election during the election and election process and that it conducts outside the administrative supervision of the electoral promotion. It is our opinion that the Croatian Parliament should adopt an electoral ethical code requiring amendments to Article 71 of this Law because you have suggested that this be done by an ethical commission. Given the constitutional changes we have made and this legislative proposal is a step further in harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, but it will also ensure direct representation of the interests of Croatian citizens in the European Parliament which is becoming increasingly influential. Its powers are significant, since Parliament has a legislative function, oversees the European Commission, it plays an important role in the adoption of the budget of the European Union. The draft law will also allow the exercise of the right of nationals of another Member State of the European Union to have residence or temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia, as regulated by Articles 4, 5 and 6. There remains an unregulated issue of voters who have dual citizenship because there is a possibility of running twice in the same elections. For example, a Croatian national who lives in Germany and also has German citizenship can run for German representatives in the European Parliament in the German elections and at the same time for Croatian representatives in the European Parliament in the Croatian elections. The same can be done by someone with Italian citizenship or any other. And we think that these articles should be more detailed, so the law should remove the possibility of double running, and the prerequisite is for voters with double citizenship. Otherwise, double running would be a misuse of passive voting law which could constitute a criminal offence. In Article 36, it is necessary to specify whether the selection of members of the county, city, municipal election committees will also follow the logic of the assembly of members of the electoral committees, i.e. that party members are also appointed as members of those bodies through an extended composition, since such a model is prevailing in Croatian electoral legislation. We all believe that before the adoption of the law itself, it is necessary to regulate further in order to regulate the way these elections will take place before the accession of the European Union, in order for Croatian citizens to participate equally with citizens of other Member States in the political life of the Union and to exercise the rights resulting from that membership. The HSS Club will therefore support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57298	Thank you. HDZ club, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. I've been asked not to speak for long, I'll try to be as brief as possible because the essential features of this law have already been made. Of course, this is an extremely important law for Croatia, and it is important that important decisions will be made for Croatia except in the Croatian Parliament and MPs elected to the European Parliament will participate in the first elections of course following ratification and after Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. Until then, however, there are some more stages. We must say immediately that the first assembly of full members will last relatively short because it will only last until the end of the current European Parliament's call, which means by mid-2014. I am looking forward and here on behalf of the club I can express the satisfaction that we have come to the moment at which Croatia is discussing this law, because it really means that we are at the end of our efforts to conclude the negotiations, because this really means that the perspective of the first elections for the European Parliament is opened because this means that Croatia is before the long-term process that has lasted several years, followed by the Croatian public and, of course, the Croatian Parliament is intensively passing numerous laws. And in that sense we can be pleased to be at this very moment which is a historic moment in any case. The minister has already said that the adoption of constitutional changes has opened the conditions or conditions for the adoption of this law and, of course, that the issue of harmonisation with the European acquis, with EU law, is of priority and that, of course, this law is absolutely in line with European Union law and in that sense, we have nothing to add. I find it interesting to discuss how the Croatian Parliament will participate in the work of the European Parliament until full membership. That's what we were talking about here. But I think it's important to point out once again what's actually going to happen. So, the moment we sign the accession agreement from the ranks of Croatian MPs, that is, representatives of the Croatian Parliament will be elected in accordance with the share of representation in this House, so in the Croatian Parliament they will be elected between 11 and 13 representatives as temporary members, or members of observers. It's probably going to be 12, hopefully 13. But most likely that number will be 12. We believe that's how it's gonna be. So 12 members of the Croatian Parliament of this call will be observers in the European Parliament. Of course, the word by observers means that it will have the right to participate in all discussions in the work of the European Parliament, but will not have the right to vote. However, there will be an extremely significant participation, their participation because they will be able to participate equally in all the discussions. They will also be able to propose certain solutions. They will also be able to lobby for Croatian interests, which is of course extremely important, and in this sense, the role of observers is extremely important in representing Croatian interests, so more than I say only 12 representatives from the Republic of Croatia will participate in the work of this body, which numbers over 700 members, 750, so 752. So it is very important that the moment when Croatian parliamentary representatives will go to the European Parliament and represent Croatian interests is very important. But what is also important is that there will be no incompatibility of duty, as this law right now regulates that area with articles 79 to 86 where the status of observers is spoken of. Because at this point, it will not be an incompatible duty, because otherwise the duty of the European Parliamentarian is incompatible with the full when it is full membership with membership in the Croatian Parliament. However, at the moment Croatia completes its ratification process and becomes a full member, so on the date of Croatia's entry into full membership these parliamentary deputies will receive the status of a temporary full member. Therefore, it will become temporary full-fledged members, which means that at that time it will lose the opportunity to participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament. The moment is also important, because, of course, according to this bill, they will be replaced by deputies who were on the lists at the election for the Croatian Parliament at the end of 2007. And finally, I say, as I have already said by entering, full membership, joining the European Union will open up the possibility of the first elections for the European Parliament and of course that then all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and, together with those Croatian citizens who are outside the Republic of Croatia will participate in these elections and that for the first time we will choose the composition that will participate in the work of the European Parliament, but I say only until 2014 when the next elections for the European Parliament will take place. What is important is also what is regulated by this law is already highlighted, and this is a question of the vote of foreign citizens who have temporary residence in the Republic of Croatia. This is regulated as regulated by all the other members so that there are no specific decisions that are related, which would be specific to Croatia. But for Croatia, of course, there is a newspaper that has already been said about, and these are preferential voices. So the list will allow one person on that list, although there is an opportunity to give it to another person on another list. So, there is a theoretical possibility which is also covered by this law which is good, that it already knows what is actually going to happen now, which is that the person who goes to the polls round the list of let's say HDZ, without God giving his preferred voice to someone on the other list. So it's also possible. In this case, however, this preferential vote is not counted, but it counts this vote that is for the list. So you count the vote for the list, and then you can't count that preferential vote. Because these options can, of course, be, because that's possible when you have the right to circle both the list and give a preferential voice. There could be such a mix-up. But all those who vote should know that the vote given to the list will be important, so either to the party list or to the list in front of the citizens. It is also good in that sense that it is also very precise and that it is very clear and that it leaves no doubt there because the preferential vote of the newspaper is in the electoral legislation of the Republic of Croatia and will be applied for the first time in the elections for the European Parliament. Here I think I said the most important points. Because of course, once again, the words of an extremely important law for the Republic of Croatia will have significant consequences. Positively safe for the Republic of Croatia and which is of course related to our membership in the European Union. I am sure that we will become a full member in early 2012. It would be ideal if it could be before 2012 and that elections for the Croatian Parliament next year will be parallel at the end of the year, at the same time as elections for the European Parliament. We think that might be difficult to expect. But here we hope for the very best and quick end of the negotiations and then full membership in the European Union. We support, of course, on behalf of the club this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57300	Thank you. The mechanism will be able to reveal that mystery that God wouldn't vote like that. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57301	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. As my predecessor said today, we are discussing in fact a very important law for the Republic of Croatia today, and by my impression it is a shame that this debate is going on in such a late hour and a pity that it will not be able to possibly be a little bit and stronger media followed. Not to see how much we are working or not working, but simply to send people a message that we are, we are entering a new phase of parliamentaryism, and that the beginning of this new phase that is just before us is the adoption of this Law on Elections of Members in the European Parliament. I think that the proposer has made sufficient efforts to package it into one law, one text that is, at last, not in line with what is required under the directives which have set out this issue by the European Union. From this law when it's read, then we find out that there are some new institutes that we've never known in our political life before. I think those solutions are quite well done. In the very opening part of this law, the Proposer says that the European Parliament is elected, so every 5 years, the term of office goes on to the members of 5 years, on the basis of general voting rights, etc., and it is not prescribed a single electoral system for the selection of members of the European Parliament, but what is important for us and here it is said that each Member State of the European Union is free to choose its own system with respect to the three conditions prescribed by the Act on the selection of representatives of the European Parliament by direct decision and then the promoter himself said that these three basic elements that must be satisfied are the electoral system must apply the system of proportionality. The election area can be divided into election units and the electoral threshold at national level cannot be higher than 5%. These are some of the main premises that we think determine the essence of this legal text. And just starting from here, I'm going to say some kind of attitude and some kind of thinking about this whole problem. In fact, I'm probably going to say this with the position of a party that, at this point, probably in the future, won't be able to have such political capacity, to meet the criteria set up here in this law, and that it has, in some way, with its individual political representation in the elections, such capacity to cross the threshold that is set here. It was said in Article 23 that the territory of the Republic of Croatia including the polling stations outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia is one electoral unit. I think it's important here to say that if we have about 4 million and something, 4 million 400,000 voters with active voting rights, and if I take out some of my maths now, and let me make a mistake in this math, let 60% go to the election in this thing, we have some kind of review of the size of 2 and a half million voters, on the entire constituency, and we now have to cross the electoral threshold. We believe that this concept is exclusively a concept it has, it gives exclusive rights to large political parties, so to HDZ and SDP to somehow be involved in these political elections in perspective, and to smaller parties it sends a message, so get together with someone and create some coalitions, and in the case of this electoral model, it means create election blocks. Therefore, we think that such an intensities according to this model where the Republic of Croatia is one electoral unit and where the censorship threshold is so high, will simply lead to the polarisation of the political scene in the Republic of Croatia, which is already polarised, and this will only be in some way legalised stimulant, will be stimulated by people, i.e. political options to be placed in a block that will be called on one side of the main block of the Socialists, etc., etc. So, I'm sorry, socialist block, that's right. The question, then, is what are the chances for other parties, outside of those blocs to participate in this 12-quota quota, as a colleague said the expected 13 parliamentarians in Brussels. I think this concept simply ruled out such a possibility. And that's why we think we should think about this, and just find some other looser model of the election, some kind of different concept that might have adapted the high threshold to other parties as well. Clearly, this preferential vote is one news that is welcome, and in its idea it is probably in the practice of the European parliamentary systems and the elaborateness of all the details, it is not quite clear to me here that this preferential system, i.e. the preference of an individual on one list, and the vote for another list, and then it is said that he is not counting the vote, is not valid for the preference, but for the vote for the list. So that's one thing for me that we absolutely need to work on, I'm allowing myself to be confused, but I think that's one thing we need to talk about. Otherwise, the idea is not bad to be recognized, in this way strong individuals who can represent the right negotiators, and simply within their own smaller parties can't according to this mathematics that I said come into the situation to be presented. And the next thing I would say about what from our point of view in some way doubtful, that is, the thing that is very important to us, which is Article 79, and that is actually the position of observer status, in this transitional period, precisely because it is a transitional period, precisely because my colleague said it is fully appreciated that these are responsible jobs and that the expectations of these great people who in this transitional period, although it is not so short in 2014 are not so close, therefore it is not a short period to be baffled, in a way to say so it will pass quickly. No, but we think that precisely because of the specificity of this situation of the transitional period, it should in some way provide a proportionate share of parliamentary parties, but not that this is now the exclusive of these large parties, but to allow other parliamentary parties, through their strong individuals, to have the opportunity to have their own representatives in that 12-man quota. We think that, if it were good for, above all, the Republic of Croatia, we think that it is good for our presentation, our legitimacy in the European Parliament. So I'm saying let's not slave with party quotas, but let's try to talk in this matter by some way to find these 12 prominent and strong people sitting here or sitting in that transition period to some normal, regular choices when it's going to be chosen by some other political criteria they represent us. And I'm going to end this, so I'm going to say to this, that we have one idea and one suggestion that these observers are talking about at Parliament Presidency level and that they're trying to sit inter-partyly, talk and make some kind of consensus about those 12 names where they could be represented mostly if not all of the most of the parties that have people who think they're going to be able to do their job in Brussels. So we will accept, clearly, that we will accept this bill even though we would like to discuss these remarks that I have just said something about. We would be glad to have this conversation through another reading, but if it is the commitment of everyone to vote out by this procedure clearly that we will not be against it. So we're going to accept a concept like this with a request that the Proposer thinks about these practical things that I'm just talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57302	Thank you. And the club of representatives of HNS-HSU, Mrs. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I certainly agree with all my predecessors that it feels good to finally discuss this law because it gives some kind of atmosphere and a sense of finishing this long-term process that's been going on for 10 years. However, given the content of the discussions so far, it seems even more important to me than we originally seemed to be discussing because it is obviously necessary, so I must say, in view of some of the discussions that have been said here before me to clarify some things. Then I guess the secretary of state will say so in his final address. Given the time limits in which we operate, we will go to direct elections for the European Parliament as well as everyone else, that is, in June 2014. Until then, we will have some period to assume is next year we will have observers who will turn at the moment of ratification into full-fledged representatives, but observers who will be elected to the Croatian Parliament from the ranks of members of the Croatian Parliament and members and who, when the ratification ends in parliaments, will turn 27 member states into full representatives, which will mean only one change in their work, which is the right to vote. Until then, they will participate in all political groups, in all political committees and in discussions and will be able to participate wherever decisions are made except that they will not be able to make those decisions. So he won't be able to, he'll be able to influence them with his debates, but not with his own voice. When our accession contract is ratified, then they'll be able to vote. As far as direct elections are concerned, so when we enter this procedure and the collage of a full member state they will go according to a model that, as counterpart Horvatic said, is new to us because it has a preferential voice. And just to clarify, gentlemen of the ministry, so when voted on by that preferential vote model, the list is circled, and on the list you circled as a voter, the preferential vote is rounded up. So, there would be no confusion if you could use one leaf here, and on the other list a preferential voice. A preferential voice only on the list on which the voter circled. When we go to direct elections, we go to direct elections. So, there's someone coming through. However, the experience of other full-fledged EU members suggests that elections for the European Parliament are ending differently than national elections are ending. And often, especially if they have prominent persons, often parties that are not strong in national elections in direct elections for the European Parliament get very good results. For example, there are 2 liberal parties in the Netherlands, VVD and D66. The VVD is the strongest party, and now they've won the election and are trying to put the government together. D66 is a small one party that was not even parliamentary at one time and was then parliamentary with a few MPs. In the European Parliament's elections, they both received 3 MPs. So they were assessed differently by the voters. I would like to say that sometimes voters or I would say that, as a rule, I can also assess the statistical well-evaluations of persons who are able no matter where they are party to represent their interests and represent the country in the European Parliament. So it should not be pessimistic to say that the SDSS or smaller parties win in these direct elections with quality candidates their representatives in the European Parliament. However, we have in this, so just something else about direct elections. The opinion of us at the HNS-HSU club is that this is a good place to experiment, or introduce this preferential voice. Because it's usually a good thing, it's just complicated a little. It's a little more complicated to round up a list and a preferential voice than just a list, but in some ideal conditions, it would be good for us and our Parliament to have preferential votes because that's why everything that's often critical of us, which is that the party's top-of-the-line designs are in order, and now you can be the most attractive man in your party if you're the first to pass because it put you there. At least the people who would vote for that party would have preferred to choose from that party to someone else. Therefore, this greater influence of voters stemming from the preferential vote not only to round the list but also to the person you think might be a representative or advocate is certainly progress in democracy and democratic culture, and therefore we in HNS HSU think it is a good idea to start introducing this model or at least try it through this choice for this European Parliament and if we get used to this model and this model starts to work well, then it would probably be wise to use this experience for election opportunities for the Croatian Parliament. We had some discussion today, and I don't think that in the end, the question of the holder of the list, if you have a reference voice of course, becomes irrelevant because the holder of the list actually serves to attract an attractive person in your party, you attract additional votes for that list, but if a person can choose on that list someone he considers to be of quality, then that holder of the list is not necessarily the first person, and on the other hand, his existence of such a list bearer who would not also be a candidate would lead to a confusion in which people might be committed to that person and round it up and then it would naturally turn out that this person is not a candidate for that function at all. Now, we have this transitional period and with this transitional period, I have something here to say, that's the period from when we get observers, at the moment we send our accession contract to ratification, it probably means after our referendum, our accession contract, our referendum, and then our ratification contract, and our elected representatives or observers go to the European Parliament. The model proposed here in this law since it refers to the percentage of the representation of individual parties in the Croatian Parliament and not to the results obtained in the elections, as you know, they are different because the Dont method turns them into something else in the Parliament. We are in a position to watch this assembly, I cannot say 100% that this assembly will send the first delegates, or the next assembly of parliaments, regardless of what we are looking at now, this assembly of parliament, so in this session of the Assembly, Croatian representatives, observers and later representatives by 2014, would be just people, i.e. MPs and MPs from the SDP and HDZ. It may be, for that you can choose as a parliament, and of course it is one of the possible models. If, instead of being represented in parliament, the results were taken as a basis in the elections, the percentage of individual parties achieved in the previous elections, in this case both the HDZ and the SDP, each of the members in the European Parliament, would have both the HNS and the HSS. What's the reason or advantage of it? I want to underline it again even though I have repeatedly underlined it on the Committee, I am not speaking for my house or for my own personal benefit because I hope that at that time I will deal with politics not in parliaments. But I am talking because most of the political decisions and agreements are being prepared and negotiated in the European Parliament in political groups of which are three of the strongest conservative, or European people, socialists and liberals. There are various other groups, but these are the three strongest groups. In the first years, so until the 214 people who represent us in the European Parliament will in some way position Croatia for the future, they will create a picture of us in the European institutions. And in this respect, our opinion in HNS and HSU is that it is in our interest as Parliament and as a country to open up the possibility of participation in as many political groups or clubs as possible and not as small as possible. Because decisions are being agreed first within the political groups, and then between political groups and we have, if we look at this assembly, we don't know what the next one will look like, but if we look at this assembly's assembly based on this call, we have the synergy and results in the elections, we have the possibility that our representatives, first observers, and then representatives only participate in two groups of political and socialists or participate in three groups. The public, the socialists and the liberals. Perhaps, apart from this proposal that I have put forward here on behalf of HNS and HSU, in that sense, we have submitted an amendment that you have on the benches and that we are going to declare tomorrow, maybe there is another smarter proposal, so some suggestion that this is not based on the results of individual parties in the elections, but on some other method in parliament because it is a one-time thing, it is not something that will happen at regular times, it is now and never again. This is now the period between 2012 and 2014 and 15, respectively. The 14th is elected and the 15th is the Parliament. So, we may be able to find some other model besides the one I mentioned here but the HNS HSU proposal is to choose a model to send representatives from the Croatian Assembly for Observers and then members to the European Parliament to be such that in the formative first years we allow participation in the largest number of parliamentary bodies of institutions and not to limit it ourselves to a minimum, a minimum of what we can do. Here's what I suggest on behalf of the HNS and HSU club for your thinking by tomorrow, so we can decide tomorrow, and we'll uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57304	Thank you. Final review, Minister of Management Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57305	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in conclusion, I would like to thank you because most speakers said that, as far as I understand it, they are mostly satisfied with this bill, which, of course, we are very pleased with. What I wanted to refer to is some exposure I won't name, but it's been said that a relatively large number of amendments have been given to this law. Here we have counted them now in the review, 15, but to keep ourselves in the essence, some amendments are repeated, they have the same meaning, and then the number is less. One part of it is fully technical or is replaced and or where the lawyers are listed according to this new nomenclature should be masters of law. I believe that these really aren't fundamental amendments, but there are several of these that the government will be manifested by tomorrow. You said it yourself in your presentation wasn't so little time because a year and a half ago this law was in the first reading, but also for business reasons, for reasons of amending the Constitution we had to repeat everything, so it was already discussed in very similar content. There was no big difference between that bill and this one now. Some have said that the law does not comply with the Law on Lists of Voters. This is simply not true, however, in Article 4 you are indicated that the registration procedure and protection of the rights of the persons concerned by this law are subject to legal provisions on the lists of voters, i.e. the law which regulates the technique in which they are registered. I'm talking about foreign citizens and how they get into voters' lists. This will also touch somewhat on the new Census Act, which now changes few categories of residences, residences, etc. However, I think that given the technique of implementing and laying down the rights of voters, the same technique also applies to the list of voters of these citizens of the European Union who would exercise the right to vote for the European Parliament. Furthermore, you mentioned the need to inform the state of citizenship of that citizen of the European Union, or the inability to control, so as not to vote in both Croatia and the countries whose nationality they have. Article 6 clarifies the obligation to inform a Member State of the European Union whose citizens have benefited from the right to vote for the European Parliament in Croatia and, of course, the opposite, that Croatia is receiving a report on what citizens of the Republic of Croatia have used their voting rights abroad in the European Union countries. I think in part of this statement, I say one more note, the State Election Commission has participated in the drafting of this law, even in the work of the Constitution Committee, and I believe that by tomorrow, in the light of these amendments, we will meet some other proposals and we will pass this law without objection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57306	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 10:30 only with a vote. 10.30 just with... 10.30. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] In 10 is the Committee on the Constitution which will short, very short...... It will only draw one conclusion, and it is already a vote on the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] To knowledge and justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57307	Let's go to the final draft law on election of members to the European Parliament. We still have that, and then this last point. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is P.Z.E. No. 590. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment has been delivered to the benches. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted, Mr Pavle Matičić, to make a statement on the amendments. Let's be patient. We're done! First, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system on amendment to the article, on behalf of the members.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I would suggest that I declare all amendments to the Committee on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57309	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57310	The government accepts all amendments to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system agreed at a committee meeting between the representatives of the Government and the National Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57311	Okay. We are going to Amendment Four because one, two and three representatives and Vice President Neven Mimica have been accepted on Article 9,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57312	The Government does not accept this amendment since the content of the amendments is included in the amendments to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57313	Mr. Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57314	Mr. President, the intensity of both amendments is the same. This, accepted by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, is a little bit better for me in my amendment, but despite all this, I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57315	This amendment has been withdrawn. The fifth amendment has been accepted. 6th Amendment of Representative Dragutin Lesar to Article 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57316	The government does not accept, because the issue of incompatibility in the performance of certain duties in this bill is equally regulated in the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57317	Mr. Lesar? He's gone. Who is for this amendment to Mr. Lesar? He didn't get the necessary majority. The seventh amendment of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure was adopted. The eighth amendment was also accepted. The ninth representative and vice president of Neven Mimica on Article 25?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57318	The government doesn't accept. In this amendment, it is proposed to delete Article 25. However, in accordance with the Directive and the electoral procedure in each law, and this also requires the provision of an electoral threshold which appears in this Article 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57319	Mr. Neven Mimica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57320	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope for the understanding of the promoter that he will accept at least the next amendment of Agent Arsen Bauk. If he does, then practically this amendment of mine is unnecessary, so let's say I give up this amendment in advance and I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57321	But we don't know if he'll be accepted or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57322	Never mind. In advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57323	Okay. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk has proposed an amendment to Article 26. The tenth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57324	The government does not accept the amendment of MP Arsen Bauk as it is a matter of how to determine the election from each list. In this proposal, the law is in the same way governed by the Law on Elections, so we think we already have the same practice in our second electoral legislation, not to comply with the Labour Act as proposed in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57325	So we have to vote for amendment number nine of MPs, Vice President Neven Mimica? No, no. [[/Intruder Secretary: Number 10.]] We're going back because this one isn't accepted. And you pulled? [[Intruder Secretary: No. He pulled his.]] And that means he's retired. Then we vote in favour of the amendment of Agent Arsen Bauk to Article 26. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He wasn't accepted, he didn't get the necessary majority. Furthermore, amendments 11, 12, 13 and 14 to the Rules of Procedure Committee which have been adopted and the 15th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, HSU, to Article 79.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57326	Mr. President, the government does not accept the amendment of the HNS Club, HSU. We believe that the proposed formulation in the bill corresponds to the way observers will be chosen, how the Croatian Parliament will select observers in the European Parliament. This is a relative share of the Croatian Parliament in the order of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57327	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Madam Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57328	Thank you, Mr. President. I stress, I hope you can see that we are taking part further in Parliament's work, although the business law of the HNS, HSU club has been violated and we are counting on your word after the vote is over. As far as this amendment is concerned, it concerns the subject not of the selection of representatives in the direct elections in the European Parliament, but of the choice of observers who will turn into representatives in the European Parliament, in the first period until 2014, when there will be general elections for the European Parliament directly, then we will choose direct representatives in Croatia. If we use this model that is proposed here, which is that 12 observers who will turn into MPs are selected for the proportional representation of parties in the Croatian Parliament, we will have observers in the European Parliament and later representatives of only two groups, in the European People's Party and Socialists, so HDZ and SDP. If we respect the proposal submitted by the HNS, HSU, that MPs, or observers, and later MPs choose on the basis of the results achieved in the elections, so how many parties have really received votes, then Croatia will have its representatives in three groups based on the current situation in the Croatian Parliament, which are the public Socialists and Liberals. As far as the country is concerned, it's certainly in the country's greater interest. As far as representation is concerned, it is also in the country's greater interest. Of course, the position for people from individual parties concerns, of course, that large parties are more in the interest of being based on what is in Parliament. That is why I think it would be useful to accept this amendment, and that in the first period we have observers and MPs in all three of the largest groups in the European Parliament. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-14-0.u57329	Thank you. I'm putting this amendment to Mrs. Advocacy Club to the vote? Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, to pass this law, requires most of all MPs in the Assembly, so at least 77 votes. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Elections for Members in the European Parliament. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 106 votes for, 6 abstentions and one against, together with the amendments adopted.
