ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64276	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. So the area of stamps in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Mark Act applicable from 1 January 2004 and the 2007 Mark Regulation, as well as the relevant international contracts that the Republic of Croatia has joined. The Singapore Treaty on the Law of the Mark was adopted on 27 March 2006, and at a diplomatic conference in Singapore, a consensus of the member states of the World Intellectual Property Organisation. The agreement is the result of four years of work within the world organisation on the revision until then of a valid 1994 trade mark law contract. The Singapore Treaty on the Rights of the Mark also includes a rule containing the causes of the forms and the resolution of a diplomatic conference supplementing both the contract and the Regulation. The Republic of Croatia, the Singapore Treaty on the Rights of the Marks, signed on 28 March 2006, on the basis of the government's decision of 6 March 2006. The Singapore Treaty on the right of the trade mark provides for a simplified and uniform procedure for the registration of trade marks in Member States in accordance with modern world trends. The Republic of Croatia shows its willingness to follow modern world trends in the right of stamps and to accept changes conditional on technical development in the process of registration of stamps. One of the more important provisions of the Singapore Treaty on the right of trade marks is the establishment of a Member State's Assembly which may amend and supplement the Regulation under this Treaty. As a member of this Treaty, the Republic of Croatia will therefore be able to participate in the work of the Assembly and will influence the development of trade marks rights on the international agenda. This law proposes that this contract be confirmed, creating conditions for the consent of the Republic of Croatia to be bound by the provisions of this international treaty. The regulations of the Republic of Croatia in the field of stamps are in line with the institutes provided for in this Treaty. In order to implement the law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia because it does not require additional financial resources. The urgency of our actions is drawn from Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, given the nature of the procedure for confirming international contracts in which we have in principle no right to change anything. And I also believe that it is interesting for this home to know that the Republic of Croatia has been very actively involved in the very creation of this Singapore Treaty on the right of the trade mark, so that it is something that comes not only as an international obligation but something that we have actively participated in. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64277	Thank you. Do the work bodies want reporters? Yeah. Mr Emil Tomljanovic, chairman of the Committee on Legislatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64278	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. At the 107th session held on 22 November 2010, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the final proposal for a law confirming the Singapore Treaty, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 5 November 2010. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal from the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, i.e. in an emergency parliamentary procedure. There are no objections to the text of the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64279	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64280	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the motion. We are technically looking at a very comprehensive document, but it is actually something that can have an important impact on the level of participation of the Republic of Croatia in international procedures, but also on processes that are considered very important in part to determine the implementation and protection of the intellectual property system. I would remind the International Community that the issue of the stamp as such has been defined by an international contract since 1994 and that it took Croatia practically 12 years to join this treaty, i.e. it took it 10 years for it to accept the contract and become a country participating in this international contract, and more practically less than two years for it to come into force because it entered into force on 4 July 2006. At the moment the international treaty came into force, the International Community already had an improvement of the entire system because several months before 27 March 2006 it adopted so-called. Singapore contract on the right of the mark. It is good that it only took us four years to complete our accession process to this new international contract, that is, a contract that recognised a whole series of important changes, especially those concerning information technologies, i.e. the need to include the issue of electronic communications as a means of submitting submissions in the process of registering stamps. It is good, therefore, that the Republic of Croatia has actively participated in this process, to join this time as 24 countries ratifying the agreement, i.e. within a circle of 43 countries that have formally accepted it and left it in the ratification process before their national parliaments. It is also good that in this 24-nation society together with Croatia and several major and large countries such as the United States of America, Russia, Ukraine, as well as a whole series of EU member states. In this respect, the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retired Party supports the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Singapore Treaty on the Right of Marks and will support it in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64281	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64282	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the motion, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, by adopting this law, Croatia will take another step towards a society of civilised countries that appreciates and respects intellectual property as a premise of economic progress. The brand or trade mark is the right to sign which serves to distinguish individual products, individual persons or companies from similar products or services of some other companies. The name, logo, emblem, label or other different characteristics can therefore be protected by stamp or trade mark. The trademark protection is an effective market tool for manufacturers and service providers to protect their characteristic tags and means that they have invested in their promotion and marketing of goods and services, and protecting the creation or logo or label itself is, as a rule, an author's work that is often protected as copyright itself. The registration of the stamp shall be carried out on the basis of the tests carried out by the competent institution. In Croatia it is the State Intellectual Property Institute. And intellectual property as such is also the seventh negotiating chapter called intellectual property. So let's look at what the European Commission says in its Report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia on full membership in the European Union. The report says that Croatia largely fulfils the European acquis, so European aquis in the field of copyright law and industrial and ownership rights. That's exactly what this syntagma... So it is largely fulfilling, somewhat worrying that in Croatia as well as the European Commission, it also says public attention, public awareness of the problem of intellectual rights is still very, very small. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] We all representatives of the state administration, the public, NGOs should work much harder to spread awareness of the need to protect intellectual rights, as intellectual rights are one of the pillars of the institution of the innovation system as the premise of modern market business and economy. The opportunity is this, perhaps, to say something about the Croatian innovation system, so that segment, which together with the State Intellectual Property Institute, is therefore intellectual rights rights related to Chapter I. - Free movement of goods. Therefore, in the broader context of accreditation, normisation, measurement, conformity testing. The fact is that the European Union is mostly resting on free trade, therefore free movement of goods, and that is also the subject of negotiating Chapter I, and in order to meet the negotiating chapter I. Croatia had to meet the conditions for having a functional quality infrastructure system. So what we call the Croatian innovation system. While the situation with accreditation and standardisation is quite good, as the European Union, and the European Commission, too, points out in its report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia, it is a worrying situation with measurement. Although Article 73 of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as an instrument of approximation, i.e. receiving the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union, it has been drawn up that the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, such as the Accreditation Agency, then the State Bureau of Standards, the National Monitoring Institute, the National Institute for Intellectual Property, must be members and members of international organisations such as EUROMET, VELMEC, etc. For example, the situation with the National Measurement Institute is very, very bad. No rights of division of rights have yet been transferred from the National Monitoring Institute to the National Measurement Institute which has the task of caring for national ethlons, i.e. fundamental sizes such as mass, density, pressure, moisture, etc. Unfortunately, Croatia has also lost its traceability for mass and density, these two laboratories are still for mass and density within the National Monitoring Institute, although they are fundamental sizes, scientific sizes, and these two laboratories are within the domain of the national measuring institute, which is now operating only at the virtual level. It is unacceptable for many moderate laboratories, and test laboratories in the Republic of Croatia, which have to go to Austria or elsewhere to direct their standards and senses, pay 4 thousand euros instead of 4 thousand kuna, which is essentially a shame because these two laboratories have been accredited by German partners through the CARDS programme, Croatia has received funds for this, and has not been able to maintain this at the level that it needs and not because of insufficient knowledge and skills, but because of the lack of care of the state administration, and the inability to agree with each other with the Ministry of Science, Ministry of Economy, the State Bureau of Measurement, and the National Measurement Institute of Production. Consequently, these two laboratories, which are in their findings, have recently been able to boast about the stamps or trademarks of the German accreditation services, will be lost, unfortunately this right will be lost. The Croatian innovation system should be developed, spoken of far more, and eventually praised, because it gathers thousands of Croatian experts and engineers, scientists, through external cooperation with the Croatian Accreditation Agency and the Committees of the Croatian Institute of Standards, and they give their knowledge and skills to the disposition of the Croatian economy through one of the most flexible ways that directly affects the acceleration of knowledge transfer from the scientific and academic community to the economy. Then comes the State Institute for Intellectual Property, which then intervenes in the protection of intellectual rights, perhaps even patents, and creates a substance for one added value in the economy, therefore on a knowledge-based economy. Unfortunately, the state's support for the Croatian innovation cycle is quite modest, insufficient, and in fact more support would give rise to more and more serious and more results than it has ever been. BICRO, the Croatian Institute of Technology Policy is barely heard in public regarding their activities, and let us remind ourselves that at the time these institutions were founded, even during Racan's coalition government, several thousand people were employed on these very knowledge-based jobs. Far more public attention and state authorities should be directed towards this segment, and certainly this is, this acceptance of this Singapore Protocol is one of the good ways that we are approaching the civilized world, it is a pity that we have not passed this law long before, but it is never too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64283	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64284	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for a Law confirming the Singapore Treaty on the Law of the Marks is the result of a 4-year work under the World Intellectual Property Organisation on the revision of the '94 Treaty on the Law of the Marks. A year. The main function of the stamp is to enable customers to identify the product whether it is goods, the service of a particular company so that it makes it different from other competing products. The basic reasons for the conclusion of this contract are reflected in the need to include electronic communication as a means of submission in the registration procedures, new types of stamps which are not exclusively visible and which, as such, are contracted on the right of the trade mark from '94. years don't apply. The same reasons lie in the fact that the '94 Treaty on the Rights of the Mark. the year did not provide for the establishment of the Assembly of Member States as well as the possibility of amending the Regulation with respect to that contract after it was adopted. This should be accompanied by the fact that the basic characteristic of industrial property rights is, as well as trade marks of their territoriality and that each country carries out the registration procedure according to its laws, where the interest of trade mark holders on the international market is to ensure that registration procedures are uniform in order to facilitate their acquisition of trade marks in different countries. These are all the reasons why the Treaty on the Law of the Mark of '94 was revised. It was necessary to conclude a new international contract, which is the Singapore Treaty on the Law of the Mark of 26 March 2006. The Republic of Croatia signed the contract as one of the 43 states that signed the international agreement at a diplomatic conference in Singapore. The adoption and approval of the Singapore Treaty alone is certain to encourage us to review the stamp situation, but also in general with intellectual property, innovation in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, stamps or stamps or brands are directly linked to the competitiveness of a single economy, and this is especially because they are products that are also given an additional value on the market through their branding. Studies in America have shown that 500 of America's most powerful brands are particularly prominent brands that are the strongest on the world's brand scale in recent years, such as MICROSOFT, MCDONALD'S, COCA-COLA, IBM, FORD, etc., that in their value marketable and more than 75% makes immaterial property, so what can be attributed to innovation, which can be attributed to intellectual capital, i.e. brand value. We don't have data for companies in the Republic of Croatia, so what is the value of these brands, and especially what is the value of immaterial property in these brands that would make up innovation, which would make it an additional value. It may also be time for industrial policy models to be examined in the Republic of Croatia in some way. The fact is that as far as the processing industry, high and medium-sized technologies are concerned, the Republic of Croatia does not take a significant place on the EU scale. In fact, high technology in the processing industry is represented by only 8%, and that's what it says about the lack of innovation, about the absence of everything that makes additional value in that processing industry. In fact, it has been shown that it is precisely in the crisis of the high and medium-high technology processing industry in all countries where it is much more significant than in the Republic of Croatia that it serves as an engine of development and an engine of exit from the crisis and that in fact these industries are rapidly recovering. So I'm talking about industries that are related to information, communication technology, biotechnology, cybernetics, etc. So it is certain that Croatia must move in this direction so that it is possible in the future to plan and capital investment, so that those going into infrastructure, that perhaps we should see that more of these funds end up right in manufacturing plants in industry and that it is not only a matter of domestic smartness and domestic intellectual capital and innovation, but rather that these innovations are meant through new technology, through equipment, machinery, plants, etc., to introduce and from abroad, so to include in the processing industry. Therefore, it would be interesting to see which old brands we managed to preserve, and how many we created new recognizable brands on both domestic and foreign markets. It may also be interesting to say that this whole situation is related to improving relations with the Republic of Serbia, but also to all former republics of the former states in which Croatian brands are very recognizable. So maybe again because of a tradition in those markets these brands strengthen and strengthen our offer and foreign trade there at all. Here, and finally, this confirmation of the Singapore Treaty ensures a simplified, uniform procedure for the registration of stamps and in the Republic of Croatia. So, according to world trends. In view of all of the above, the HDZ Club proposes the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64285	Thank you very much. We don't have any more charges to discuss. That's why I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote on this final bill when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64286	We move on to the final draft of the law on the confirmation of the Singapore Treaty on the right of trade mark. It was an emergency procedure, PZ number 638 proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate was closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Singapore Treaty on the right of trade mark. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill has been passed, I hope, unanimously with 102 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64287	We will now move to item 14 on this consolidated agenda proposal because for points 11, 12 and 13. we do not yet have all the conditions for discussion. So we go to - Final proposal of the Law on Electronic Money, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 586 You received the proposal by mail, and this procedure naturally combines the first and second reading of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from the board at this session, and the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So, very briefly on the proposal for a law on electronic money. I think you all remember our debate well from the end of 2008 and from the beginning of 2009 on the law on electronic money institutions, which was one of the segments of the total chapter 9 of the financial service, you know that this year we closed this chapter successfully, so we carried out all the obligations, but of course our obligations to comply with EU legislation continue so that this Law would enter into force 1. 1. In 2011, which is the main reason and the most important newspaper. This is that electronic money institutions are no longer credit institutions, which means that they are no longer subject to the rules applicable to credit institutions, especially as regards the level of underlying capital. I'll remind you that credit institutions have a minimum share capital of 40 million kuna, and neither do those strict risk management rules, so on. Basel Two, which is currently in effect. However, it should also be said that although they are no longer credit institutions in accordance with the new Directive, the institutions for electronic money must continue to be authorised under this Bill proposal for electronic money issued by the Croatian National Bank. The authorisation act shall contain the authorisation for the provision of payment services related to the issue of electronic money. It will also have to contain an authorisation to provide one or more payment services which are not related to the issue of electronic money. Otherwise, the prescribed minimum base capital of the electronic money institution is 2 million and 600 thousand kuna and must be paid in cash. This Act provides, in accordance with the Directive, for the possibility of establishing an electronic money institution under the exception of whose underlying capital is 260 thousand kuna as a minimum, however, what is important to say that those electronic money institutions are not to issue electronic money in the area of another Member State, but also that the maximum amount of electronic money stored on the payment instrument or on the salary account shall not be more than 1125 kuna. The Croatian National Bank will also manage the register of the electronic money institution and also monitor the operations of these institutions and adopt sublegal acts under the law and in accordance with the law. The electronic money institution which operates on the basis of the authorisation granted according to the applicable work, therefore still the Law on electronic money institutions, as well as the legal person issuing electronic money without authorisation for work, shall submit until 31 March 2011 a request to the Croatian National Bank for the purpose of harmonising his business with the provisions of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64289	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. We first have a report from the HDZ Club for the debate, on behalf of the Club will speak to the distinguished representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64290	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and fellow MPs. At first, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of the Law on Electronic Money. Electronic money is an electronic or magnetically stored monetary value issued in exchange for money that can be made in accordance with the Payment Law and which is accepted as a means of payment by natural or legal persons who are not issuers of that money. This Law further aligns domestic legislation with the acquis of the European Union. The European Parliament and the Council adopted Directive 2009/110/EC on the launch, implementation, and prudential supervision of electronic money institutions on 16 September 2009. Some of the objectives of this Directive are to introduce a clear definition of electronic money, responsible for the emergence of new pre-paid electronic payment products with a view to establishing a clear legal framework, to strengthen the internal market, while ensuring an adequate level of prudential supervision, further removing barriers to market entry and facilitating the launch and pursuit of the activity of electronic money issue, the introduction of a base capital regime and a permanent level of capital to ensure adequate consumer protection and sound and prudent business of electronic money institutions. The obligations of a member of the European Union to transpose the provisions of this Directive into its national legislation by 30 April 2011 at the latest and the Republic of Croatia has committed to adopt this Act for the purpose of harmonising the negotiating chapter of the 9th Financial Service. In Croatia, the concept of electronic money was first defined by the adoption of the Law on Electronic Money Institutions, which entered into force on 1 January 2009, as a result of the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the European Union, and ceases to be valid on 1 January 2011, by the entry into force of this Act we are just discussing. The new Law on Electronic Money, therefore, which we are discussing, reduces the base capital requirement for electronic money institutions, and institutions are no longer considered credits under the new European Union regulation, so the minimum amount of capital is reduced from 40 million kuna to 2.6 million kuna which must be paid in money. The exception is for electronic money institutions under the exception of which the underlying capital must be a minimum of 260 thousand kuna. Therefore, it is the institutions which are not allowed to issue money in other countries and the maximum amount stored on the payment instrument or the payment account is 1125 kuna. In addition, this proposal also regulates electronic money and electronic money issuers, the issue and purchase of electronic money, the conditions under which electronic money institutions based outside the Republic of Croatia can operate in the Republic of Croatia, etc. The electronic money institutions established in the Republic of Croatia are legal persons who must be granted prior approval from the Croatian National Bank for the issue of electronic money, and it is important to stress the fact that the Croatian National Bank is newly managed by the register of electronic money institutions and is overseeing electronic money institutions. Finally, I would like to point out once again that this proposal for a law will also implement further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and, in accordance with this, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law on Electronic Money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64291	Thank you very much. We also have a report from the HNS club, HSU for discussion on behalf of the club, respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As Mr Maric has already said, this is the third year in a row in which we deal with the problem of electronic money, first through the Law on the Institutions of Electronic Money and then through some changes, i.e. the corrections of this law, and here is now a completely new legal text. So, the Proposer has not defined himself in this particular case for amendments and additions to the law, but rather a completely new legal text and we have nothing against it. So, generally taking the HNS and HSU will support this bill. However, we would like to point out that this example shows what awaits us in the process of continuing compliance with the European acquis. Namely, all those who thought that the amendments to about 500 legislations that we have implemented in recent years as a Croatian Parliament in order to bring our legislation into line with European legislation are only a one-time effort that will soon be completed, and then the Croatian Parliament will, in this sense, have less work to do in the future, see on this example that the parliamentary activity to bring our legislation into line with European legislation will be permanent and alive. So, on the one hand, it might seem illogical that the regulations we've passed over the last two years, but here they are now going to change or some new solutions. But this is something that happens in many areas in the EU, and therefore we must be aware that the government will have great responsibility in constantly monitoring and updating the standards it will then propose to the Croatian Parliament. So, the fact is that somewhere parallel to the amendments to the Law on Electronic Money Institutions, we also had the adoption of a new directive. It is good that the government reacted immediately and that in this particular case we are showing that, despite the fact that we have already closed the issue chapter in negotiations with the EU and despite the fact that the current practice has been that, with changes, we have been waiting for many years, in this particular case, we are responding quickly, in order to become immediately after EU accession, an integral part of the European economic space, in a way that we are actually implementing the same regulations that apply to us in other EU Member States as well. It may be necessary to get used to this, and at the level of the Croatian Parliament, constant monitoring of changes to EU law is our permanent task. And it is likely that the following, especially the next meeting of the Croatian Parliament, will be able to learn more about this practice and continue to work on continued compliance with the European acquis. I repeat, the HNS and HSU club will support the adoption of the Electronic Money Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64293	Thank you very much. So far, we have two applications for an individual hearing. First respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64294	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate of esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, as counterpart Beus said for each commendation, the government's quick and spot-on reaction to the EU directive is to bring the negotiating chapter into line with 9-Financing services. This need has been reflected because electronic money institutions have shown certain shortcomings in their functioning within the EU while these could not have been possible in Croatia, since none of the transactions or activities under the existing Electronic Money Act have yet been implemented. But this creates a new framework that is consistent with European practice, and it is good that it is continuously and lastingly harmonised on all grounds and thus in this section relating to electronic money. This law also regulates electronic money and electronic money issuers, conditions for establishment and business, all institutions that can deal with electronic money as well as the termination of the work of institutions and define supervision of those institutions. It is determined that the National Bank is running the register, that it is overseeing and that many opportunities are being opened. But the most important institutions for electronic money are no longer credit unions, which means that it is not covered by all the rules applicable to credit institutions, especially as regards the amount of underlying capital worth 8 million kuna, and now 2 million is 600 million for minimum capital for electronic money institutions and that must be paid in money. It is here that one responsibility should be highlighted, which is said to be paid in money, the electronic money institution. And imagine the situation where the banks were founded and they didn't have to pay the basic capital in money. How much this gives security legal, how institutionally stronger an institution like this is now electronic money. And even though there is no activity for the time being in the field of electronic money, in the area of FINA and telecommunications, there is a great potential to use it and I think that this potential will be exploited and I personally support this bill. And I stress that it's a good thing that the final bill, that it's a new law, not that they're permanent changes and additions. And whenever he can, it's better because of the practicality and application to go with the new law, not the constant changes and additions. So I especially commend and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64295	Thank you very much. The Republic has a respected representative, Goran Beus Richemberrgh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64296	I would like you to comment on the fact that the secretary of state did not, unfortunately, comment on your last name, and I think it would be interesting. And this is that the new European directive actually came at the moment when the EU recorded I would say the peaks of the crisis in its financial sector and that one of the consequences of the fact that the heart of the global economy crisis was in the financial sector, especially in the banking sector, but also in the sector that actually deals with electronic money, unlike Croatia where it is not, where the banking and financial system is stable, where it is doing very well in terms of the conditions of the crisis, and where the heart of the crisis is in the public sector. I wish that you could comment on us in that sense because it is important for us too because today and tomorrow we become part of not only economic space, but in a narrow sense and financial space of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64297	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64298	Thank you very much. Comrade Beus, it is always easier to detect certain shortcomings in the legal framework when it is in use, not only on paper, and therefore it has been reacted in the European Union because it has seen the need for practical application. And of course that has strengthened the need and financial crisis that has hit and started right out of financial institutions. That is why this directive wanted to separate electronic money institutions from credit institutions and that is good. One responsibility has even been strengthened, a financial responsibility with this core capital of separation of the share capital with supervision and that the Central Bank is also overreaching the work of these credit institutions. And why there was no need in Croatia, you well said that financial security is much higher, that the banking system is absolutely stable, but thanks to the timely reaction of the government and the HANFA because the government has increased the security of the stakes of all citizens from 100,000 to 400 thousand kuna and the HANFA has established an Intervention Fund for any problems that can arise in investment funds. And that gave one stability, one security, one belief that citizens had confidence, that they had security in the banking system, and there was no withdrawal of deposits, but they kept saving. On the contrary, savings have increased precisely thanks to the government's decision and the government has contributed most to the stability of the banking system in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64299	Thank you very much. And now I call for the debate of Honorable Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64300	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. This law provides tools to entrepreneurs for a stronger step and breakthrough in Europe's economic space. It is known that the information sector is rapidly recovering from the crisis, if at all affected by this crisis of the banking system that has been rocking the world economy for the past two years. This law is also part of information technology with the financial sector. In a way, it also belongs to Chapter 1-Free movement of goods because it facilitates the slaughter of goods as it also facilitates the payment mechanism for these goods and services. So it's another e-commerce law. Let us remember that we also had a relatively recent law on electrical signature, so infrastructure is being created in the Republic of Croatia for full integration into the European sector of modern business. Here recently, several days ago, there was also an analysis in the paper, predicting that the euro might be one of the shortest currency since it is expected that by the year 2040 it is fully withdrawn and that all transactions go electronically. These laws represent, as I said, a good start, a good infrastructure, but there is still a great deal of effort to harmonise the entire Croatian economy system with the European economy, not in that part of the European acquis, but in the part that will make business easier for Croatian entrepreneurs. For example, we do not even think about cyber notaries or cyber public notaries who would take advantage of all the advantages of electronic signatures and provide services at a distance of contract certification, international contracts between economic operators or even among natural persons without the need for those two legal entities or individuals to be found in the same place with the same notary to verify the contract. There is still much, much work to be done on education for both the economics and the younger generation that has to be today, so today a younger generation needs to be trained for these modern ways and trends of business. When we look at educational curricula in the domain of information or mathematics, they do not follow these modern trends, they do not, at all, respond for a moment to the information society in which we live. Unfortunately, the young generation at least has those classes in high schools is barely able to create an excel table where you would plan to spend today's allowance tomorrow's home budget. It's simply not meant for the program. The curricula needs to be tempered. These trends in modern legislation that we are working so hard to translate into educational content into the Assembly, prepare a young generation to enter the labour market and modern business without any earthquakes and traumas that will surely come unless they are prepared. And as for businesspeople, they may be the strongest ready for such modern trends, but surely the government should also consider some mechanisms and incentives to try to prepare and engage in the benefits provided by information technology. Because it is known that all honour is great but small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is nevertheless an inescapable force that should draw forward the Croatian economy and help to get out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64301	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate and we will vote on this final draft of the law as soon as the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64302	13. Final draft law on electronic money, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 651 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Electronic Money. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill was adopted by a majority of 99 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64303	Now we'll skip the 15th point because we still don't have all the conditions to discuss. And we're going to the sixteenth point. It is - The proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received a report from the board at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Mrs Ivana Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64304	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is just a brief explanation of the proposal of the members, i.e. the president and members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science. So, by the provision of Article 5. The Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science is prescribed that the Croatian Foundation for Science is managed by the Management Board of the Foundation which has presidents and 8 members, appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The candidates for the President and members of the Management Board of the Foundation shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia taking care of the representation of all scientific areas, four members on the proposal of public scientific institutes, two members on the proposal of the Rectors' Assembly, and one member on the proposal of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the National Council for Science and the Croatian Association of Employers. According to the Law, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports announced an invitation to propose members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science. The call was published on the Ministry's website, and was sent to the addresses of all public scientific institutes, the Rector's Choir, HZU, the National Council for Science, and the Croatian Employers' Association. The deadline for the submission of the proposal was 15 September 2010. Following received proposals from the Public Scientific Institutes of the Rectorial Assembly, the National Council for Science, HZU and the Croatian Employers' Association, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports on 29 September 2010, it sent the Government of the Republic of Croatia a letter proposing candidates for members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science. At the proposal of the Minister of Public Institutes of Science, Ljiljana Ekert Maksic, Doctor of Science George Drezdner, Doctor of Science Vladimir Vajdić and Doctor of Science Ljiljana Marks were proposed. A professor of science, Stipan Njonjic and academician Ivica Kostovic, were proposed at the Rector's Assembly. At the proposal of the National Science Council, a professor of science, Ilija Zivkovic, was proposed. At the proposal of the Croatian Employers' Association, Davor Majetic was proposed, and at the proposal of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, Academyman Mirko Zelic was proposed. The addition of the proposal in question was sent by the ministry on 7 October 2010, and proposed by the chairman of the Academy Management Board, Ivica Kostovic. At a session held on 14 October 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established a proposal for a Decision appointing the president and members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science and directed it to the Croatian Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64305	Thank you very much. The committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. We have a SDP registered first. On behalf of the club, a respected representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64306	My colleagues and colleagues, the National Foundation for Science and Higher Education, as it was called at the founding in 2001, is one of the key institutions that began with world practice, with the practice of developed countries in science and higher education, and it consists of a community, primarily a state providing money with the obligation of scientists to distribute it themselves and to spend it in the best possible way. For a time, the Foundation was raising funds and it started working in 2004 because it gathered to say the critical mass of resources that could have been started to operate and it actually started to improve scientific and technological innovations. The Foundation was not formed to carry out unfinished tasks of the ministry, but to stimulate and finance key and important steps that our scientists would bring to the production of additional values in both basic research and applied research. For the last four years, in fact, the Foundation has been doing its job based on the raised capital of ancient years, and for the last four years, 873000 kunas have been paid into funds if I am not wrong in relation to 30, compared to 50 million dollars the Foundation received at the time of the coalition government. It doesn't matter now. It is really important to treat the Foundation on one hand in the portfolio, so in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, on the other hand, and between us when we bring a budget to what we from the opposition each year have objections, which somehow do not encounter adequate resonance. The trust has run out of funds. So the Foundation hired the remaining 13, 14 million kunas by 2012, and the Foundations are threatening extinction. What is the matter with the board of directors? What will the board of directors do in a trust fund that has no resources? And the difference between the declared and the fact is so great that it associates us with different unfair intentions. The Foundation must have its substance, therefore, its work activity in order for the Management Board to have its task or function. The foundation was planned to take over the funding of the so-called so-called foundation. Competitive, i.e. individual or so-called non-institutional projects. There is no kuna for that, and I am not telling you that the money for scientific research projects has been significantly reduced since 2008, that unlike most European countries in which RNB, Research and Development, so research and development either remained at a level before the crisis or even increased, we have almost a third, and therefore a very strict question is actually being raised what the Foundation's board of directors is doing? That's one side of the story, and I hope we get an answer today. Secondly, if the foundation really plans to finance competitive, therefore individual and non-institutional projects, then I remind you colleagues and colleagues that from the moment of the call for tenders for projects, it will be between 8 and 12 months to the moment of approval of the project. The current project cycle ended in 31.12.2009. We've had all year to discuss the competition, we've had all of 2010 to call the competition, and now we're entering 2011 without a tender, and the trust fund doesn't even have a kuna of its own. And this is an extremely worrying attitude towards science in the Republic of Croatia, because yesterday you could hear in a diary of a prominent Canadian scientist of Croatian origin who says Croatia is unfortunately at the bottom of investment in science and education, and the only thing that can save us in the current state of things in the world is investment in science and we will just be doing just as well as we will invest in science and education. It's not happening here. That's a side story between colleagues and colleagues. And the other side of the story is concrete suggestions. Among the concrete proposals there are several excellencees, no one disputes, no one can and cannot dispute. However, the structure of the proposal is worrying. It continues with the practice that began in 2004, that most of the jobs of key and decisive jobs are entrusted to a group of people. We have six scientific areas in Croatia, we have three artistic areas. The predominant set of governing councils are the sciences of life, or so on. bioscience. You have two medics, one person who teaches biochemistry or organic chemistry, one person who is in agronomics, but not in technical matters, but actually in the development of plants and plant cultures. Of the nine people, four are from bioscience, the minister is from bioscience, the president of the National Science Council is from bioscience. Well, I wonder when that's gonna stop. When will other fields of scientific research come into expression and be able to be represented in such bodies as the Board of Foundations? Secondly, in this structure, some areas with extremely unrepresentative branches have been formally represented in this personnel structure. Third, which is also structurally worrying, not only in Croatia, 70 to 80% of scientific research is done at the university, four candidates come from the university, outside the university of five candidates in the structure, this administrative structure of the Croatian Foundation for Science. So it actually concludes that this proposal is somewhat unsustainable, but also that the legal powers for such a way of proposing are completely inadequate, because, let's say, the public institutes of which in Croatia has 25, and the universities of which in Croatia has 7, public institutes have the right to propose four members of the board of directors, and in fact the universities through the rector's assembly are practically equal, and this is the team that is quite known, therefore, to public institutes indirectly, and sometimes and directly manage the ministry, better said minister. So we will not be against this proposal, because of those experts who are inside, which are proposed, we cannot accept this proposal, so we will be restrained, and I am putting this all together as a warning and as a requirement that the future situation be significantly different than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64307	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, HSU, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64308	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will significantly shorten my exposure, because my colleague Flego said everything that needs to be said and I fully agree with him. But you'll allow me to subdue some details in front of the HNS, HSU. When the Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development was founded seven years ago, it was then conceived as a blockage of the Croatian economy. It should have relied on the needs of the economy, it should have harmonised applied research according to the needs of the economy, it should have provided technological transfer in line with the needs of the Croatian economy. Have we realized any of this? We didn't. Nothing, not first, not second, not third. Why? Because the foundation simply didn't have the resources for it. Go through our budgets for the past 5, 6 years and you will see that the foundation has received very symbolic funds and that it simply could not do this important task as we have imagined it. We also heard from our colleague Fleg, we asked yesterday the government's representative on the board, which is now the new task of the foundation, since they don't have any funds? And they are said to be transferred 130 million kunas as foreseen for the financing of scientific projects in the next project period. So 130 million kuna. I remind you of colleagues and colleagues Croatia has about 10,000 scientists who will compete for these funds. Over the past few years, we've reduced science isolation from 1.1% of GDP to somewhere between 0.7.0.8%. Is that enough? I think you'll agree that's far from enough. Furthermore, if we just do some comparatives – here we talked yesterday about the State Statistics Office. My colleagues and colleagues for the work of this office, the important institution no one denies it, we allocate as much funds as for the needs of 10 thousand Croatian scientists. For 400 of our soldiers who participate in peacekeeping missions, we're about $400 million. So 3 times more than all Croatian scientists combined. Is that enough? Is that a proper priority ratio? I think we need to ask ourselves, and we need to start asking things differently. My colleagues and colleagues, I have to say that I was really a little embarrassed by what we heard on the board yesterday, on the parent board, on the Committee of Education, the parent board is the Committee on Selection and Apology. But we discussed very closely the future of this foundation, and when we heard what its new task was, that if we confirm them today, they will try to call the competition as soon as possible, take care of the reviews of those projects that will be offered and take care of their funding. If this is the task of the board of directors, then we really shouldn't have our top scientists sitting on that committee. They can also be good organizers, financiers, scientists of the methodology of scientific work. But we were of the opinion that the foundation must have much, much bigger and more important tasks but also technical administrative related to the competition for new scientific projects. For this reason, most of us felt that we should essentially advocate that the future foundation was really the best of the best and give them one task that would at least be approximated to the 2002 or 2003 task when we started this story. Some authorised promoters have made a real effort and have suggested, in our opinion, excellent candidates. Some, unfortunately, didn't do it. I have debated with my colleagues at the HNS-HSU club warned of these shortcomings and probably some of us will be restrained in making this decision although we know that the future of scientific projects is now in us, but we also think that the government must be more clearly determined in relation to the role of the foundation, and official applicants must be informed of what is expected of the board members in order to know how to choose the best candidates. In this case, I agree with my colleague Flag, we didn't get the best candidates out of all of them, we didn't, we could do the job better, but what's here is. In the vote, this conclusion from our Education Committee was not read here. The vote was 4:4. So, as a committee, we couldn't support this proposal, and we're sorry about that. We're sorry about that, and we want to warn the HNS-HSU club that this must not happen again in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64309	Thank you very much. The third registered club is the HDZ club, the respected representative Goran Maric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64310	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The development of society is also seen by the status of science in society. It is doubtless that we are going through a very burdensome and difficult time and that this is reflected in the status of science as well. However, given the possibilities and potentials of the Croatian economy, we cannot say that science is not paying enough attention. Accurate data are some that are presented here by colleagues and Doric and fellow Flego, but the structure of the problem is different than it seems at first sight. The total funding and total allocation for science in total GDP is true that it is smaller than the EU average, but in terms and in comparison with countries that have undergone difficulties and transition processes such as Croatia we are far ahead of all others by much. If we look at total separations for science only with a small slight redistribution, better results can be achieved and there are problems we need to warn about. And that's, for example, institutes. The institutes are funded from the state budget, but the question is how many results. What do institutes do and what is the social benefit of individual institutes? I think we should also draw attention to some undesirable phenomena when institutes establish societies in co-ownership with natural persons and engage in the establishment of some high schools. IT IS not good for the development of society, that this is not a rational spending of budgets and that this should systematically be evaluated by all scientific institutions in the Republic of Croatia. But when we talk about the Governing Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science, we cannot say that this is not about respectable and reputed names. The assessment that they were able to choose better is subjective, and there is no measure to compare and rank list to work by the quality of scientists. But if we have an academic for the president of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for the Science of Academy Directors Ivica Kostovic, then isn't that enough name, a strong one, which has left such a deep mark in science in Croatia that we can really be proud to have such a name at the head of the board of directors. Are not representatives of public institutes also prominent scientists in the Republic of Croatia. Isn't she a representative of the Academy of Science and Arts, Mr. Mirko Zelic, the same person who enjoys trust in scientific circles. Although I often say that the Association of Employers is not a place in individual bodies, I think, but here I support that they are the board of directors of the Foundation for Science and Representatives of the Association of Employers because precisely the link between science and the economy is the main driving force for the future of Croatia and economic growth. Science which is not focused on the development of the economy, science which is not applied in practice then will not get the expected results, so it is a good thing that the president of the Association of Employers is on the board of directors to analyse the needs of society at all times, and that according to the needs of society, the social development strategy is being invested in certain areas of science. But for example, if we no longer want to deal with any industry, then it is up to the institutes for such industry and their existence as much as it takes for Croatia, and what we want to develop should be invested in scientific institutions for the development of these desired branches. The HDZ Club supports and will vote for members and president of the Croatian Science Foundation Management Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64311	Thank you very much. We've got a correction to an incorrect quote, a respected representative of the Iron Flego reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64312	Mr. Maric, as the correction of the incorrect quote is the only institution that I can kind of water-polize with you but without being able to answer me, I am sorry for that, but I simply think that it is not true that Croatia is among the best transition countries in science. Elemental is not true, numerical is not true, statistical is not true, percentage is not true and we have warned on several occasions Croatia as far as science goes backwards. We came from 1.1% to 0.7% of gross-national product, which is terrifying. Contrary to the recommendations of the European Commission to stay at the level before the crisis or to increase, a good part of the countries has increased some countries have doubled their research budgets, and with this behaviour I fear that we are cutting the branch on which we are sitting and that we have already begun to fall, we are quite close to shaking on the ground. The European In recommendation was not to reach 3% of the gross-national product in 2010, and now we are actually at 0.7.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64313	Thanks, time's up. Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, perhaps only this last correction of the incorrect assumption is short-circuited, the European Union has indeed taken a position through the Barcelona Declaration and Lisbon that it will double investment in science and research and that these investments will reach around 3% of the gross social product. However, unfortunately, neither in the European Union has this goal been achieved, and I think it is about the European Union’s history of disease. And this means that in 1995 the Green Paper on Innovation came out, where the European Union also clearly wrote in that document one of its knowledge that we later recognize as so-called. European paradox, which is the fact that high science does not automatically produce new technologies and economic growth, i.e. that the European Union is at the top of scientific research but that this scientific research is not in the function of economic growth. And from this very fact, this Green Paper on Innovation was created where, in fact, the European Union is in general reviewing its investment policy in science and research but also in relation to science and economy. So it has been shown that there are scientists, that there are scientific institutions, that there are a large number of research results, etc., but that they are not in the function of economic development, that these are not applicative results that can help develop the economy in a way that solve concrete problems in practice and that clearly there must be a shift in order to invest in science and research, in research and development in order to focus on economic development and economic growth. Here, here's just a few details. So, the European Union, this is data in 2008 but has not changed significantly, has invested in research and development 1.99, and the EU 15, and the EU 27, so all 27 member states 1.9. Therefore, if the European Union is compared to one of the United States of America to invest in research and development, then it is one percentage point higher than the share of R & D in the EU. And also if it compares to Japan, which is, for example, Japan. In 2000, it had a 2.98% share in the gross social product of resources allocated for research and development, so 2.98 that increased in 2008 to 3.54%. Therefore, the EU is unfortunately lagging behind in total investment for research and development. There are clearly certain countries that could be cited as good examples. Yesterday, there were some stories about Finland, for example. which is somewhere on the level of Japan etc. But what's a bigger problem is the fact how much investment in industry is how much I invest the economy in research and development. So we have data that in the EU, therefore, all 27 member states, that the share of industry in total investment in research and development is 63.6%, while e.g. It's in Japan 78.53 or in the United States 72.46%. It's about 45% in the Republic of Croatia. So this particular share of the economy in research is actually talking about the results of what the role of science and research in the development of the economy is in terms of the results of these research in terms of innovation and all those solutions that are particularly considered added value in the processing industry. It is certain that this debate on the role of science in development and economy when it comes to the foundation is extremely important. Because these institutions, such as BICRO, such as the Croatian Institute of Technology, such as the Foundation, are in some way support and additional logistics and infrastructure to the Ministry itself to turn more towards economic operators, towards the economy and that scientific research is not only of the fundamental character but of being more applicable in industry and economy. And that is why data is important to us, and it is important that these institutions play a key role in the transfer of knowledge in the transfer of research results to the economy itself. Here we are today discussing the appointment of presidents and members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science. In fact, what is certainly important is that this agenda item came to the agenda at all, because we had the last time in a report from the board president who said he was already waiting a year and a half to resolve it because it was in conflict of interest. So, who was waiting for a new appointment and a solution. And that's why this point is welcome, and it should have come sooner. And as for people who are named, so scientists, experts who are appointed to the board of trusts, what makes me happy is that academicist Ivica Kostovic is appointed at the head. In fact, it's about a man who doesn't just have experience as a scientist. It's about experience in management, organization of work, designing work. Because I think it's primarily important in this foundation not only that we have top scientists, but that we have top scientists managers, so organizers, those who will be able to implement already some existing solutions and ideas from the world that will be able to design new programs. Therefore, it is not only important that their top scientific résumé, but that it is really about people who will be able to organize and improve, is about improving the work of the foundation. This is where the institutes were mentioned and I agree. So some institutes in the Republic of Croatia have not completed their task. And when viewed in terms of competitiveness, they are neither competitive with similar institutes. Let's take it there was a story about this program FP7 means where this entire European scientific space is trying to integrate. It is certain, then, that they too will come to an evaluation and judgment and that some institutes among them have failed to fulfill their task and will certainly not pass that evaluation. However, I want to give a good example that is the agricultural institute in Osijek, which is therefore 90% funded from its own income, and only 10% is taken from the state budget, and only for this scientific logistics, support means for scientists, young researchers, etc. that they actually showed what they needed in Croatia. Having knowledge, having scientific research, applying them in practice, resulted in a large number of new production strains, so seeds sold both on the Croatian and foreign markets, especially in the eastern markets. And here he showed the best of science and economy. And it's this information that 90% of the funds are being imposed on the market, and only 10% of the money they get from the state is saying how important it is and how well it's doing and how well it works, and it shows what Croatia needs, means how to implement science in the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64315	Thank you. We have a replica. First Mr. Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64316	Thank you, Mr. President. State Secretary. I'm going to get involved in this debate for a little while first. Namely, my two speakers that I've just heard have come up with some very interesting data, somewhat controversial, but in any case interesting. The state of science, the state of scientific research with us, etc. I'd just like to visit one thing. At a recent opportunity debate on the National Science Foundation's report that both the board and this House have taken a stable stance and made constant recommendations. Therefore, I think that today we are not and should not discuss the state of science in Croatia but rather the proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation. I see only actually two problems that have arisen, and this is one problem, whether the criteria of choice must be purely scientific excellence or the criteria of proposing can be another, i.e.. It must not only be scientific excellence but also availability for certain management qualities. Secondly, one thing that remains open to me is the question of the proponent's proportionality. We now have four representatives of the institute to propose. If we compare the percentage of scientific work at universities and institutes, then I think that there is one disproportionate and that in the future we should try to achieve the right working space, i.e. that the university gets the number of representatives it proposes on the Board of Directors of Science which corresponds to the percentage of scientific work that happens at universities. I think it's just two actually technical problems that need to be discussed, and everything else I think the proposal is good and there's no reason to be too abstention towards it, although I would personally clearly wish that humanistic and social sciences were slightly more represented inside, but it's also a matter of debate for future proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64317	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64318	Thank you very much. In fact, I agree with Mr. Selem that today we are discussing here the appointment of the Governing Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science and that this is in some way the point of what candidates are, whether the representation of individual professions is sufficient. I also agree that, in the future, not only the greater representation of the social, not only of the university but also of biotechnical sciences, so where we also have recommendations from the European Union, but also of the Lisbon Declaration, the fact that the ICT is mentioned most, means information and communication technology and biotechnology, means something that is particularly important at European Union level when it comes to research and development. However, I also believe that every opportunity to talk about science should be used in this assembly. I think we're actually very little talking about science, and if we're talking about competitiveness at all today, economic competitiveness, and also how certain countries have started to come out of the crisis that it is precisely thanks to high-tech technologies that are absolutely related to science, research, research, for research that has experienced its application in practice, therefore through innovation, through patents, etc. So here we use this debate to warn about the situation of science and scientific infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64319	Thank you. We have another replica. Mr. Agent Iron Flego, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64320	My colleague Kovacevic, I fully agree with you that there is no automation between scientific research and new technologies and otherwise, scientific research and innovation. But on the other hand, there's almost no innovation without scientific research, no high-tech research without scientific research, no sustainable development, and there's really no innovative development without scientific research, so that we're founded that rests everything, that's what you actually said in this replica. I'll give you Finland where the situation is important in a different Europe. So, the European Union is not unique and you have a whole range there, but I can also tell you Slovenia. At the end of 2009, Slovenian scientists received extra funds to improve science and thus help their economy, their economies. That's one side of the story and medals. The other side of the story is what we here in the Parliament are doing to improve science. I'll remind you of only two elements. When Minister Schuker proposed the abolition of tax relief for institutional investment in science, the opposition was against, ruling they were in favour and we abolished the possibility or stimulation for the economy to invest in science and education. So that tax relief has been lifted. I agree with you that the foundation should and may be very significant. But please, the foundation has zero kunas from the state budget this year, and that's the tragedy where we want something, but then when it comes to realisation, to concrete measures to achieve what we want, then we give up a little bit of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64321	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64322	Thank you very much. In fact, we all agree here on sustainable development and competitiveness at all, therefore, that there is a need to boost investment in research and development, and that in fact, Croatia does not need to bring anything in particular and take views but simply follow those key documents of the European Union. So we have told the Lisbon Declaration that the European Union will transform into the most economical, dynamic knowledge economy, primarily through innovation policy and that it needs to be doubled to 2002. Barcelona, that double investment should mean 3% of gross social product, but 2/3 of it goes from the private sector and just 1/3 from the public sector. What's important today when we talk about the trust, when we talk about... when we talk about the Croatian Institute of Technology because the fact is that these institutions have to, they are not even so much a crucial asset and the level of the resources they have but rather the programmes they put on competitions and which they should provide, but also to guide these projects into a better logistics of the Croatian economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a big problem when it comes to scientific projects, first and foremost their evaluation, their monitoring, and their records, and today we have a situation where from local self-government units, from countries, different ministries, and even from these institutions, they finance one and the same projects under different names where multiple money is taken for one and the same thing. So we don't even have good records. Evaluation failed, we had a situation with these scientific projects that were one day put on the Internet where scientists reacted because they weren't satisfied with the reviewers to then download it from the internet, etc. So there should be more transparency, but there should be cooperation with international also scientific institutions, universities, so that not only would be a domestic review, a domestic evaluation, but it would be more and more and more international.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64323	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Zdenko Franic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64324	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. BICRO has dried up, the Institute for Technology Policy and Development has dried up, there is no money for innovation. How to finance the Foundation when she doesn't have enough money to fund the projects. The fact is that science must be competitive among other things, it must help to grow the economy. How do they do it in the European Union? The European Commission through... As the main administrations of the European Commission for Science, certain research is commissioned in certain thematic areas. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] For the period 2010 to 2020, thematic areas... which will pay much more attention than other areas are open and competitive economies, economies, the development of a low-carbon economy, sustainable management of natural resources, food security and consumer goods, nuclear safety and security and crisis management as well as reference materials and measurement. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Measurement through different visions is believed to contribute up to 30% in overall economic growth. What's the situation with us? What are thematic areas of priority in the Republic of Croatia? How will the National Science Foundation meet these challenges? Whether the selection of projects and criteria for their selection will be in line with this outlined European Commission Strategy. These are all unknowns that should have been incorporated into criteria for selecting members of the National Science Council. The European Commission also has very well-developed mechanisms for predicting future developments in the global economy, in society. It's a force sighting. However, do we have this in Croatia, as we respond to modern trends. I'm afraid very slowly and very, very inefficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64325	Thank you very much. As there are no more reports, I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This Proposal for a Decision appointing was adopted by the majority 71 votes in favour, 28 abstentions and three against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64328	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed parliamentary representatives and MPs. The business with the 2009 State Stocks was conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act, the rules applicable to the budget and budget users, and the decisions and conclusions of the Croatian Government. The law stipulates that strategic stockpiles are created to provide basic supplies in times of war and immediate threat, independence, unity and survival of the Republic of Croatia, and in case of major natural disasters and technological and environmental disasters. Stock supplies can also be used to provide urgent assistance to other countries in case of disasters, humanitarian aid, and in case of participation of the Republic of Croatia forces in peace and humanitarian operations abroad. Stock stocks cannot be used to remove disturbances and instability on the market. The report on the state and management of the stock stock is a shortened display of the management of the stock for 2009. In accordance with the legal provisions, a regular annual list of state goods stocks was made on 31.12.2009. The list was carried out by the inventory committees of the storekeepers, and was attended by representatives of the State Inspectorate, and authorised employees of the Department of Stocks, at 77 locations or at 93% of the warehouse. In the structure of strategic stock stocks in 2009, the highest value is 13 product types, i.e. 98% of total stock stocks, and that euro diesel and fuel 25%, wheat 11%, meat 10%, lube 8%, meat fish and other cans 6%, whole-day dry meal 5%, tents, bags and Polish beds and bed sheets 14%. In 2009, the purchase of goods worth 43 million kunas was made with Polish beds 4119 pieces, tents large 1000 pieces, small tents 585 pieces and 10 car water tanks. Total revenues and receipts in 2009 amount to 28 million 293 thousand and 98 kuna, and total expenditures and expenditures 74 million 486 thousand 193 kuna, resulting in a lack of income and income of 46 million 193 thousand and 94 kuna. The lack of income and income is covered by surplus income and income from earlier years. Available surplus income and receipts... The period is 35 million 295 thousand 912 kuna. [[You don't understand.]] Excess revenue will be used in accordance with Article 16. The Strategic Stocks Act for the purchase of strategic stocks according to the balance sheet amounting to 28 million 959 thousand and 912 kuna, for investments in the ongoing investment maintenance of a warehouse owned by state goods stocks. On the basis of the above, we can conclude that in 2009, a number of activities were carried out and the basic characteristics of the business were: the regular exercise of stockpiles control, led to order among the warehouse companies, the value of the strategic stock stocks was 5% higher than in 2008, the purchase of strategic stock supplies amounting to 43 million kuna, revenues achieved from the state stockpiles were paid to the single State budget account, the renewal of the strategic stocks of corn and wheat in order to preserve the quality. The situation in the stocks shall be such that circumstances set out in Article 2 arise at any time. The Strategic Stocks Act can react, i.e. in the case of natural disasters and disasters, as well as in support or in the need of humanitarian aid to other countries, as well as to organise humanitarian aid in the Republic of Croatia. The costs of keeping and restoring the strategic commodity stocks are maximumly rationalised, and the stocking of stocks is continuously carried out in accordance with the financial opportunities, i.e. the availability of State budget funds and the funds from regular operations with strategic commodity stocks, without prejudice to the functionality of the strategic commodity stocks. In cases of non-compliance with contractual obligations, the Director shall take all legal actions to ensure the return of goods, make administrative decisions on the return of goods, file criminal charges against companies and responsible persons, ensure the payment of the means of insurance which are part of the contract, shall be charged as an executive creditor in cash, all in order to protect the assets and interests of the Republic of Croatia. Dear MPs and respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64329	Thank you. Does the rapporteur want a committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64330	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I think it is good at the beginning of the debate on this report to remind and repeat that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2004 brought a balance of strategic stock. This balance is a particular type, name and quantity of goods, and the basic territorial distribution, then the plan and deadlines of the fill of goods that make strategic goods necessary for the lives of people, then oil derivatives, materials and raw materials needed for the production of wartime, condition or direct threat, independence and unity of the Republic of Croatia, or for the care of the population in the event of major natural disasters and environmental disasters. Stock supplies under the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship shall be managed by the Department of Stocks. The state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 which is also covered by the report we are discussing today, revenues for special purposes and revenues from the non-financial assets of the supply directory are included in the state budget, this is the expenditure that is being paid out of them. Since 2006, the Directorate has an obligation to pay the revenues obtained from the stock exchange, in favour of the single State Treasury account. The annual accounts, the 2009 financial report under these materials within the legal period, were drawn up and delivered in the prescribed forms to the competent ministry, the State Audit Office and the Financial Agency. Several of the most important features of state supply operations in 2009. As we have heard, reduced expenditure on the purchase of non-financial assets has been reduced, which means a total reduction in expenditure. In addition, business revenues have been reduced, and increased revenues from the sale of non-financial assets compared to the previous year 2008. The short-term claims have been slightly reduced, and increased long-term claims have been reprogrammed according to government decisions. Short-term income claims have also been reduced in the budget. The expenditure on financial assets and the repayment of loans in 2009 did not exist, and in the structure of non-financial assets on 31.12.2009, the most represented stockpiles of state goods stock with 72%. In this 2009 report, there was a lack of income and income from the previous year, amounting to €46 million, a lack of revenue will be covered by surplus revenues and income from earlier years, which amounted to more than €81 million. The available surplus of income and income remaining for the next period is 35 million 295 thousand kuna, while the above funds are benefiting and spending in this year 2010. I want to point out at the very end a good example of stock management and management. In this case, it's stockpiles of multi-purpose auto-cisteries. The report shows that there are 10 pieces of multi-purpose auto-cisteries in 2009, and it is known that another 10 auto-cisteries were purchased during 2010, which we will naturally present in the State Reserve Directorate's report. And what does it matter to the prominent? These 20 multi-purpose cars are not parked in some warehouse in Zagreb or elsewhere. On the contrary, these 20 local self-government units, i.e. voluntary fire companies across Croatia, have been given to the use of local self-government units. The fire departments and local self-government units shall take care of the technical condition, and the preparedness of these tanks for possible interventions in the call of the competent services, while those tanks are used for fire interventions, and the transport of drinking water in case of various natural disasters for the wider area in which they are located. It's a great example of stock management. And for the sake of everything contained in this report, the HDZ Club will accept the 2009 report on the state and management of supply supplies with financial indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64331	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS club Mr. Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64332	Dear President, the Honorable Secretary of State with a colleague, ladies and gentlemen. We know that good management of commodity supplies is of great importance in view of the need for timely supply of the population during emergency situations, and recent floods have shown that these can unfortunately happen in Croatia. On the other hand, some others have been struck by the drought, and the price of wheat due to Russia's decision to extend the ban on wheat exports to the next harvest and is estimated to be high and unstable as a result of this. Since price disturbances on the agricultural product market affect the stability of domestic production, supplies should be created from which it is possible to intervene in order to stabilise the domestic market. This tells us that maintaining and managing state goods supplies requires special attention. The balance of strategic stock supplies is determined by the type, name and quantity of goods, as well as the basic territorial distribution and plan, as well as the deadlines of complete goods which make strategic goods necessary for people's lives. This also includes oil derivatives, materials and raw materials needed for the production of wartime or direct threat to independence and unity of the Republic of Croatia or for the management of the population in the event of major natural disasters and environmental disasters. The basic characteristics of State supply operations in 2009 as shown by the report are the reduction in the cost of the purchase of non-financial assets, a reduction in the cost of supply and a total reduction in expenditure, a reduction in operating income, and an increase in income from the sale of non-financial assets in view of last year and a slight reduction in short-term claims. Long-term claims have also been increased and the government's decision-making reprogrammed cut short-term revenues claims paid into the budget, and there was no expenditure on financial assets and loans in 2009. In 2009, there was a lack of income and income of 46 million kuna. The deficit of income is covered by the transferred surplus income and receipts from earlier years amounting to 81 million 489 thousand kuna. The available surplus of income and income in the next period is 35 million 295 thousand kuna, and these funds will be able to be spent by the directorate in 2010. In accordance with the positive regulations, the annual list of goods of state stock was made in a total of 65 legal persons, stockpiles warehouses and a total of 83 inventory lists and records were processed. The annual list of own warehouses, fixed assets and small inventory was conducted in a total of 13 ancient warehouse persons. Total claims on 31 December 2009 increased by 0.63% compared to 31 December 2008. It amounts to 792 million 156 thousand kuna, and the highest value is short-term claims of 737 million 549 thousand kuna and are 93.11%. The long-term claims amount to 63 million 449 thousand kuna and refer to reprogrammed claims, compared to the previous year by 18.19%. As far as the obligation is concerned, the largest credit assets were allocated for the purchase of wheat in 2004 amounting to 213 million and 217 thousand kuna, while other liabilities account for 0.36% of total liabilities. The total value of goods and state stocks on 31 December 2009 is 328 million kuna, which is 3.5% higher than in 2008 while the value of the warehouse is 110 million 334 thousand kuna, which is by 2,62% lower than the value of its own warehouses last year. The strategic stock stocks on 31 December 2009 amount to 324 million kuna and are higher by 5.11% compared to 2008. And according to the report, there was an increase in value due to the purchase of Polish beds, small and large tents, as well as multi-purpose water autocisteries. From all of this, we can conclude that it was well managed in stockpiles and therefore the HSS Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64333	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64334	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Every year in the Assembly, we discuss the Report of Stocks and every year the report is given the green light thanks to the parliamentary majority, and every following year, the goods stock is generally spoken in almost the same way. I was in a debate just three, four years ago when we discussed the report of the stockpiles called the slave supplies a self-server. And stockpiles were self-serving, it's a public secret. Something we know, something we know. From sparrows who ate grain to far more sophisticated and far more complex operations. Namely, why am I saying that? I'm talking because I think it's a key problem when I read this report, which is, however, done on page 12, which is certainly not good for the matter we're discussing, but the fact that stock supplies have claims at the level of $800 million. And every year, such a figure is the same, and even there were years when that amount was even greater than 800 million, but when you look at the structure of these stock claims, the share in the main, which was certainly a breakthrough or someone was worth more to cash through stock stocks or shares in their society than it is a stock market or some other way, but the shares make up 325 million kunas or other words 470 million kunas still hanging, 470 million are still uncovered. How and how did that 470 million happen, we ask these questions every year. Since I was a member of the Committee on Stocks, we discussed this at the Council. And at the last meeting of the Council, we agreed unanimously, in agreement, that we were asking that the Directorship of Stock Stocks to the unpaid claim a final and firm position. It is clear to us that they are not able, that they are able to state their position, and theirs is known to me, their position I fully approve of it, it is in accordance with our conclusion. However, the problem is that this attitude must be approved by someone else, and that someone is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia must decide and I think it would be correct after almost 20 years of stockpiles to finally draw the line there. If the decision is to go clean-handed, strong-hearted in the fight against corruption, let's clear up a space of 800 million kuna. In certain court proceedings since 93, 17 years cannot be resolved in certain cases in order to clear up a disputed or suspicious item held by stockholders in their balance sheets. 17 years is that an accident? Is that an accident? The second thing I want to say is that these are the inventory of the stock. Loss in the "Djakovština" of French character. A month after the inventory commission found out that the grain was gone, people lost their grain. Who's doing the inventory? To the greatest extent, the State Inspectorate. I think it is necessary from a pay phone in the Croatian Parliament to ask the state inspector and members of the State Inspectorate who have been doing this job for many years on behalf of and for the account of goods supplies. So if we want a supply system, and we want it, that's the legal obligation, and in the end, that's the way we set ourselves up, I think the debate on this report is an opportunity to finally draw a line here. And to be very clear about an institution whose value is 500 million. TO make it very clear to the institution that is necessary, which we need, but also to define that other dimension, which is the development dimension that stock stocks can have in the development of the economy, especially agriculture. Is it logical that some of the foods that run out of time, so the department of supply has problems with destroying or resuscitating such goods, at the same time we give the tourist economy the free money from the state budget, there's the money that they see, and here where we have the money but it's in the goods, we destroy it. Therefore, in any case the stock should have, in addition to this legal obligation, which is why they are formed, they should certainly have this development component. Because we at the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Pensioners do not agree that their development component consists of a supermarket, by some strange criteria, but in concrete actions, in concrete activities, according to the concrete part of the Croatian economy, from agriculture and beyond. A colleague mentioned in the name of the Club... systems, excellent and this is a good example, said an example of quality availability of goods, this is an excellent example, we totally agree with it, but what about the other goods? Quality of availability in the way of self-service for us at the HNS Club HSU is not acceptable and cannot be acceptable, and when we talk about the overall potential of supply supplies, we expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take advantage of the stock, the potential of supply supplies and in the development of support, as a result of this and the development of the Croatian economy. The current department of supply supplies, the people who run it, along with the secretary of state, over the course of this year, it seems to me to me at four sessions we discussed this potential and how to use that potential. And we agreed, we defined the possibilities, but everything else is on it. If the resolution ministers do not engage actively and the stock supplies are levers on one side in clearing up corruption that has its history over the past 20 years, which measures nominally 800 million kunas, and the amount is certainly higher, to use this potential in the development of the economy. We at the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired have no reason not to accept the report of the Administration, people are doing their job. As part of those possibilities they've been given. But the possibilities that open up the supply space are that for some individuals, for some self-services and long years, only concrete information can be seen only through investigative journalism, and not thanks to the institutions of this country that should be doing that part of the job, and I disagree with that. We do not agree that in 17 years, the court process cannot be closed, where stock supplies have their own claims and we do not agree that stock supplies do not involve themselves as leverage and support the development of the economy. In this regard, we support efforts by the HNS and HSU club to support the efforts of employees of the Department of Stocks, but in a sign that they do not agree with the management policy of all these years, we will not support this report by self-service policy with the status quo policy in which the institutions of the state are doing their job in this sense in the HNS and HSU club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64335	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64336	Thank you, Mr. President. Since our time is running out or your time is running out, the HDSSB club will also not support this report on commodity supplies for 2009, almost for the same reasons as Mr. Korajevic's club HNS and HSU. In fact, it's true that we've had affairs that line up with stock supplies from before. Mr. Koračević said it has been 17 years and that these affairs and problems are still unresolved. It is true that as long as we wait for any news of the wheat of Đakovština 27 thousand tons of so wheat that have gone untraceable and interesting that these 27 thousand tons or 2 thousand 700 wagons of wheat are not known for their trail, nor are they "unknown" where they have gone. Therefore, this phenomenon of supply is linked to the phenomenon of self-service of selected and similar ones is indeed what the concerned Croatian public must be, but also that goods stocks as something which is viewed as affirmative and positive can be included, can be improved, can be used to support the Croatian economy. When I say so, then I must remember the case which is here in Brod-Posavina County well followed and famous, and in the wider Croatian public perhaps slightly less, and it is about the anti-urban missiles produced by the "Tool" Slavonski Brod. These anti-urban rockets that Croatia imports, so 2/3 imports them, so about 4.5 thousand pieces, and the state of Croatia buys for its own needs only 2 thousand of its own Croatian company "Alatnica" Slavonski Brod, although this same "Tool" has the potential and capacity to produce all 7,000 anti-urban missiles, as well as opportunities to produce more and more modern and better anti-urban missiles, than it has competition in Serbia, Macedonia, Bulgaria, where anti-urban rockets are imported. Why am I saying that when the subject is the 2009 report on the state and management of the stock supply? So because anti-urban rockets are also based on purchases and agreements and competitions, if in the end we will say so with "Atlanica" Slavonski Brod and in which it works more than 50 workers, and for the rescue of the Croatian economy here I mean first of all "Atlanica" in Slavonski Brod, which is within the circle of "Djura Đaković" holding, it was possible to buy out anti-urban missiles in the goods supply of the Republic of Croatia. This has not happened and neither is there any discussion, nor is there agreement, nor is there good will and intentions for those who could handle it. And that's why here's one model company with 50 employees is really in big, big trouble. Yes, Pero Veocica is correct, Mr. Frisce. If I were to return to the material written here, which is the report on the state and management of the stock stocks, where it says that in June 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a balance sheet of strategic commodity stocks whose adoption was prescribed by the provisions of Article 9. The Strategic Stocks Act. "Bilance is the intended type, name and quantity of goods, as well as the basic territorial distribution, plan and deadlines of the fill of goods that make strategic goods necessary for the lives of people, then oil derivatives, materials and raw materials needed for the production of wartime or direct threat or independence of the unity of the Republic of Croatia or for the management of the population in the event of major natural disasters and environmental disasters." Why do I say big accidents and environmental disasters? Well, because it's a fight, a city, an ice or a crowd, however you want it to be, one of the natural disasters that can happen, and it's very often caused by damage, an elemental accident in the neighborhoods, especially those with agricultural production, and anti-urban missiles fall into the means to prevent it, to prevent it. And therefore there is also the need and possibility for Croatian anti-urban missiles to be in the goods supply of the Republic of Croatia so that they can act at any moment in the event of the danger of such an elemental accident. So show already once good will and good intention to see the stock as Mr. Koračević said, they are in office so that they can use it, so that they can be support for the Croatian economy as well. In view of this report and that it is equal to almost every year to say the fact-listing, and no progress in terms of this kind of possible support to the economy and the HDSB club I repeat won't be for this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64337	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64338	I'm correcting an incorrect quote from a respected colleague that it's necessary for anti-building missiles to be in stock. Instead of acting on time, it is difficult to inherit the communist system and as such is abandoned in most smart, developed countries that believe in scientific research. In addition, the Ministry of Science of the Republic of Croatia conducted a study on the effectiveness of the anti-urban defence and the results were devastating. The anti-urban defense is by no means an effective way to defend against the defence, the defence against the fight should be organised in other ways, by providing property to insurance companies, networks, etc. Unfortunately, the state budget still separates more than 20 million kunas from us for this purpose, which has absolutely no effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64339	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. Mr. Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about stockpiles, we certainly need to say a few words that these are professional and economic activities being conducted in the State Department for Stocks, and under the directorate of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. The Board of Directors is established as an administrative organisation with three departments: Department of Stocks, Department of Financial Accounting and Analytical Planning and Department of Legal Affairs. Of course, I'll speak as briefly as possible, but I'll try to say what's important, that the annual list of state supplies was all done in a total of 65 legal entities. Therefore, in addition to the inventory committees, the designated solution was also carried out by the responsible person and produced 83 inventory lists and records on the implementation of the annual census with a total of 65 legal persons. What is important to say is that the financial results of business or better said revenues in 2009 were 28 million 293 thousand kuna, as well as operating expenditure of 74 million 486 thousand kuna. Of course, it's visible here that we've seen a surplus of expenditure compared to income, and they'll be covered by income in recent years. It is also important to stress that in the structure of the strategic commodity stocks in 2009, the highest value is 13 product types, which are euro diesel, that is wheat, meat, mahout, meat, fish and other cans, whole-day dry meals, etc. On the basis of the above, we can conclude that in 2009 a series of activities and basic characteristics of business were regular exercise of control, which is very important at this point to say because we have witnessed not only in the past year but also in previous years there have been cases of abuse. But I have to find out here and say that just this year, a series of controls have been carried out, not only by stockholders, but also by state inspections, and at this point, we can say that some new winds have been blown up in stock stocks just based on these controls, and I am sure and confident that in the future, there can be no shortage of certain goods. So here's my report, which is why I support the 2009 report on the state and management of the stocks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-26-0.u64341	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We move on to the 2009 report on the state and management of stock stocks with financial indicators. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary and home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The 2009 report on the state of and management of stock stocks with financial indicators is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This report was accepted by the majority of the 72 votes in favour and 1 abstention and 29 against.
