ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61515	We move to the next point - Final bill on the completion of the Protection and Rescue Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61516	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honored ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. You have before you a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Protection and Rescue Act, with a final draft of the law. It explains that one of the reasons for the adoption of this law and the implementation of the proposal and the reorganisation of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority is that of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Republic of Croatia. However, I would say that, in addition to this, the reason is also very important and the reason why the adoption of this law should be carried out functional integration of the complete components of the protection and rescue system. Namely, this center in... It was established by a government decision in 2001 on 29 November, and a new Protection and Rescue Act was established after the establishment of this centre and the State Protection and Rescue Administration was established. [[You don't understand.]] And if you look at a description of the activities of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and Regional Centre, it will be seen that practical activities overlap. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It shall also overlap with the activities and obligations of the State Protection and Rescue Authority referred to in Articles 47, 48 and 49 and 50 of the Law, 35 of the Law. So, a series of laws on protection and rescue laws, i.e. from the jurisdiction of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. As I said, these will not only contribute to reducing the number of agencies in terms of implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme, but one very important functional integration of all components of the protection and rescue system will be carried out. You have also seen that it goes to unique number 112, that this unique number is accepted by all components of the system of protection and rescue including firefighters and the MUP so that all other emergency services, i.e. services that participate in the system of protection and rescue, will be integrated in time. The regional centre normally employs 24 employees. They are scheduled to be moved to the State Administration for Protection and Rescue in accordance with expert preparation and systematisation of the State Administration, and 11 will be made available to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. there is the possibility that they will move in accordance with the needs of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, i.e. their school preparation, to a professional preparation. I'm just saying that so far since 2004, these are data by 2010, the Regional Divulje Centre totalled 29 million 850 thousand 577 kuna and we expect this accession to the State Rescue Authority to reduce these costs. These workers of the Regional Divulje Centre will find their place at the State Protection and Rescue Authority and will certainly be given another incentive to establish a single integrated system of protection and rescue where all those with certain professional qualifications will find their place and be able to contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61517	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative of Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61518	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect assumption that this merger of this type will achieve greater functionality. Only if you read the name. So it's a regional centre and it's a state administration. If we had done something different, if we had drowned the state administration at the regional center, then we would have gotten that functionality. Because if that wasn't the case then let's not say that these last months in Serbia after they heard that this was going to happen they had signs that a new regional centre of this type would be formed in Nis. And I don't really understand that logic at all, but it'll probably be through the discussion of the occasion of hearing and hearing something.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61519	The committees? Internal policy and national security? Legislative. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61520	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The State Administration for Protection and Rescue with its five services – Civil Protection Service, Fire Department, Service for System 112, The Office for Joint Affairs and the School of Fire and Rescue as the leading organisation of human protection and rescue, goods and environment in the Republic of Croatia prepares, plans and manages the operational forces and coordinates the activities of all participants in protection and rescue. In the past five years, a major step has been made in building a single system of protection and rescue. This proposal of the Protection and Rescue Act will deal with the issue of the work of the regional centre for helping and removing the consequences of disasters. The entry into force of the Complementary Act, the Protection and Rescue Act ceases to be a Regulation establishing a regional centre, and the regional aid centre ceases to work on the day of registration in the court register. The regional centre was established to manage disaster databases, exchange information relevant for the protection and rescue of disasters, to take preventive measures to reduce, to create disasters, to coordinate procedures related to border crossings. In order to provide urgent assistance aimed at preventing the occurrence, i.e. removing the consequences of disasters, harmonising joint action plans, receiving and providing assistance to other countries in protecting and saving, and removing consequences in disasters. Training and training of management and specialist teams in the field of protection and rescue, as well as planning and implementing exercises in the field of protection and rescue involving the engagement of international management and rescue teams. Since the activities of the regional centre are identical with the activities of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, and here are several examples to show that the competencies of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue are overlapping with the regional centre's jurisdiction. The competences of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue shall be to carry out a risk assessment of the occurrence of the disaster and major accidents in the area, cause or subject, and shall be the holder of an assessment of the hazards and plans for the protection and rescue of units of local and regional self-government. It shall issue mandatory risk management instructions to all participants in protection and rescue, monitor and analyse the situation in the field of protection and rescue and propose measures to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to improve the situation and direct the development of the protection and rescue system. In a unique information system, it collects and dismembers and directs data on threats and consequences of disasters and major accidents. It shall maintain a single information base on operational forces, means and measures taken in the field of protection and rescue. It coordinates, manages and directly commands operational forces in disasters and major accidents. It shall prepare and implement international contracts in the field of protection and rescue, exchange information with the competent authorities of other States and international organisations on protection and rescue. It shall directly communicate with the competent authorities of other States and international organisations in connection with the request and implementation of reception or emergency assistance. It coordinates the crossing of state borders during the reception or provision of international assistance. It shall coordinate the action of international forces in the protection and rescue of the Republic of Croatia. He prepares and conducts international conferences, seminars, courses, workshops and exercises for protection and rescue. It organises and implements exercises of protection and rescue participants to check their ability to propose a plan of investment in large fires and codes, propose a plan of intervention in large open space fires in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, adopts a plan of the necessary funds and fire forces for fire-fighting interventions of importance for the Republic of Croatia, brings a plan for the acquisition of equipment for the implementation of activities in the programme of activities in the implementation of specific fire protection measures against the interest of the Republic of Croatia, directly coordinates the involvement of the United Nations, NATO, the European Union and the Council of Europe, and all through the organisation of exercises, conferences, workshops, seminars, co-ordinates the activities of national fire departments for protection and rescue, participates in the activities of international organisations of the United Nations, NATO, NATO, the European Union and the Council of Europe. Furthermore, it is clear from this that these responsibilities are overlapping and that it is logical that the decision to suspend the work of the regional aid centre is logical and that it is logical for all the workers of the regional centre on the day of entry into force of this law to become civil servants or subsistences, and continue to carry out the tasks they have done, and, within the framework of the State Protection and Rescue Administration, retain all rights from working relationship to the timetable according to the rules on civil servants and tenants, in accordance with the tasks undertaken. The state officials that cannot be deployed will be made available to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the rules on civil servants. As the secretary of state said, it's 24 employees of the regional centre. All activities and projects of the regional centre shall be included in the financial plan of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, as one of the measures of public administration reform established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's economic recovery programme for the purpose of reorganisation of agencies and other legal persons with public authority is implemented. This legislative proposal will achieve around 700 thousand kuna savings in 2010, as well as in budget projections for 2011 and 2012, estimated at around 800,000 kuna per year. Due to all of this, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Protection and Rescue Act, with the final proposal for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61521	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative of Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61522	Well, it's incorrect here that everything is logical. Nothing makes sense. I mean, how do I explain it? If there's something that's state, there's something that's regional, there's something that's international. I think I'm surprised Mr. Secretary didn't say in the introduction that the regional centre was created as the conclusion of the quadrant... One of the signatories of Hungary, Slovenia and Austria, and in fact, something that should become a golden coke in the sense that it could be financed entirely by international funds and partnership relations. [[You don't understand.]] The fact that the government hasn't been able to recognize it in the past few years, or somehow just a little bit of recognition through an open door, that's another problem entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61523	My colleague Lucin, this was not a correction to the incorrect allegations of MPs. No, there's no correcting the illogical conclusion. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61524	Here's a quick explanation for Mr. Lucino. You've shown the establishment of a Nish center as a done deal. That's prejudge. From this center, just to help you a little, this centre is unlikely to be anything because it is the most likely establishment of a new fire centre in the regional region in Split. Therefore, the concept is a little different from the concept which was your regulation on the establishment of this centre, that certain logistic affairs are being done there, is going to be the idea of establishing an operational centre that will perform and work, and Croatia is very likely to, you told me as a done thing that is in Nis, I assure you that it will not, very likely Croatia will be the centre, or that it will be in Split this new fire-fighting centre, but here we let the time to show it, because a series of talks with other countries is being done, should first address a number of other issues about crossing the border, about guarding and harming the airspace, there are many things that are definitely determined and there are the assumptions that Croatia will be the country in which one's most serious operational centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61525	Correction, Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61526	I'm correcting the secretary of state who said in the new system previously mentioned. Only the truth works, in the strategic plan of the Ministry of Interior from 2011 to 2013, the regional centre in which we are discussing is part of this strategic plan of the Ministry of Interior in 2011 to 2013, with a general goal of building an integrated system of protection and rescue, and a special objective, which is to establish a system for providing assistance and removing the consequences of disasters in the regional environment. So we're talking about a regional centre located in your strategic plan for the MUP from 2011 to 2013. That just points to the way you plan. Something you've defined as a very important factor, within the system, now you're saying it's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61527	You reacted with a little delay, now it's, that's what you should have done when the secretary of state had a self-indulgent exposure. You've now responded to his opening statement. Now he had another part in which he didn't look back at this part at all but commented from his colleague, Lucine, did he? And SDP Representatives' Club Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61528	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Director, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, all present. Here, let me look back on behalf of the SDP club at today's agenda, and these are amendments and additions to the Protection and Rescue Act. Today, we have on the agenda one of the laws of the government's economic recovery package that we have had several in the past period, through the amendments to the said Protection and Rescue Act, which comes down to the abolition of the Regional disaster centre. That's what it says, "removal." And for the reason we've heard about it now, from overlapping jurisdiction, savings, financial savings, rationality, etc. I must say immediately that the SDP club will be against this law and will not support these amendments and additions to the Protection and Rescue Act. I must remind myself that the Regional Centre was founded just as it was just said in the quadrilateral, meaning that this was signed by the agreement of Croatia, Austria, Hungary, Slovenia and that the Regional Centre was just founded in Divulje means with the aim of becoming the Regional Centre for disaster in which all the activities that are related to, whether this is a logistical, operational goal, means disaster resolution, or disaster resolution, or disaster resolution. I'd like to note that it was 2001. The centre began to work in Divulja, and during this period it primarily carried out training activities, international contacts, relationships, and here it was also involved in the organization of one of the exercises that was the largest until then. After that, we had another one, it was called dragon-breathing. It was imagined, i.e. the agreement envisioned that this regional centre would exist in that part and spread, and that in that part how organisational and technical it would be to say the centre in terms of the base for this part of Europe, that is probably today and for Southeast Europe. It was supposed to, so Croatia should have benefited greatly from that centre. So, according to the assessment of the people involved in organizations and services, the benefits that should have been seen in this from getting all that knowledge, the organisational skills that countries have in the environment until it was meant to participate in the highest standards of training, organisation, technical equipment and, normally, when you have in one of those areas, such a centre is ultimately used financially for this area, but also for Croatia in general. I repeat, the greatest benefits should have been services, organisations, regardless of the level of organisation of whether from the state level, counties, municipalities, cities whether institutions, services, or associations. Here it is, we finally came in 2010 and unfortunately here it is now we have this law with which this center with that intention that was gone and it is not at all a overlap of activity because it was precisely the activity and the goal. You know that just for the sake of applying and receiving, it means also absorbing everything we expect and what we may have used in this period, but hopefully, I am convinced that in the next period we will use with EU level is exactly an absorption that in both formal terms and technical terms for the transparency of everything that is happening, so the EU does not normally want to have a transparent entity on the other hand and that was precisely on behalf of the State, means on behalf of the Government, that is, on behalf of the Republic of the region center that was ultimately in the interior ministry's portfolio. At the end of 2007, here I have to express my satisfaction with what I heard from the secretary of state, but I have to express both the skeptic or the suspicion of how we heard this in 2007 from the then prime minister or the beginning of 2008 immediately and then it seemed very likely and as a finished thing to be done in Divulja, i.e. in Split or Divulja, that it will be the Regional Centre for Combating Forest Fires or as it was called and we must say that this has been quite exploited and it has come to the approval and the joy of all those who deal with these affairs, primarily in the fight against forest fires, meaning also the protection of the forest from fires. Although it is again a narrowly specialized area, unlike this intensity, which had a regional disaster centre, which is still a multidisciplinary branch, which practically everything around us today must unite in one place in a particular situation, it is a protection from disaster, I will say something later. Today we are at the end of 2010 and the media have passed on, no one has ever denied, here is the first time I hear today from the secretary of state who said that at the Centre for the Fight of Forest Fires, which is scheduled in Nis, meaning in Serbia note bene that has no sea, which is neither Mediterranean in the country or is or is not, is that it is threatened in one part of the fire, but the system of forest protection against fires and the fight against fires is incomparable to the resources and to all that Croatia has, and I must say to all of us regret in the end that one such centre that is supposed to be there. I hope everything hasn't been lost yet, though what we read and what we know seemed that way. And then a man wonders with all these international contacts, international relations, here at the level of the state administration there is a department for international relations, why he was able to allow such a centre to be thought at all that he was not in Split but in Nis. It makes absolutely no sense that in this environment, both professional and organisationally normal, everyone is probably struggling to have it with him and I accept it. However, we need Croatia to fight for this Regional Centre to be in Split because it has all the logic of professional and in-in logic to be in Split where we would benefit from our resources and how things are given the most resources, but on the other hand, we would have an incomparable benefit from such a centre. It is therefore expected that this will happen. And I invite you to do it as soon as possible. And that's exactly what it says is that there should be a specific regional centre because it won't be able to be part of the state administration, it won't be able to be part of a state body, but it'll have to be one organisational special unit that will absorb everything that's going to happen in that space if it does. However, as things now stand by what we have, apart from what I've heard here today, things don't look so good to me that we're going to have this center. And it's inadmissible in the end. Thus, the regional centre in Divulja costs about 4 million and 700 thousand kuna for this year. 4 million 700,000 kunas since 2001, when it was established, I know that since the state administration was created, in the meantime, we have passed a Law on the Protection and Rescue of the State, which is good at basic law. We have laid down a system with this law which is basically good and is organized and is set up by the state administration as a professional administrative body for protection and rescue activities, the resolution body is further the Ministry of the Interior. A government that, unlike these 4 million 700 this year, I think is 171 million kunas that are about to be spent by the body. And here I would now say that if the price of 4 million 700 thousand kuna was also saving 700 thousand kuna, and that was precisely the condition that we could have one regional centre where then savings or benefits would be incomparable to those figures, therefore it only says everything. So it's not about two bodies, it's not about any overlaps, it's about two independent things that each does its job based on law, etc. So I repeat once again it wasn't about overlapping business, although I have to express regret in recent years that activities from the level of state administration have been carried out precisely with the sole intensity that this regional centre is being shut down for what reasons are subjective whether certain "rivalty" unfortunately, here is what will happen now. We wish because this regional centre has its function. But it's okay. The protection and rescue system in the Republic of Croatia is organised in accordance with UN conventions with European directives, conventions, declarations, and everything called after the subsidiarity line. This means that of the municipalities, the city, the county and the state the system is organized. The system participates independently of the level of organisation from state bodies, county, administrative bodies, institutions to associations. Are they associations of legal persons, are they associations of citizens. And the system has begun to be so complex and I have to say that the system is in the good part complex, but it will have to end up overexplicating that system because it comes in one part to overlapping certain competences, I would say a misunderstanding, I won't say perhaps worse situations whether they happen or that can happen. In the system, many organisations are still not satisfied with the system. So they think that this system would have to act a little differently. There are certain expressions and dissatisfactions in the way it is done, because in this system I repeat many more associations and services and institutions, a good part of the people who participate voluntarily in this system, free of charge, etc. Therefore, there is a need to have sensitivity in this system as it is established. In establishing a protection and rescue system in Croatia, historical factors, traditional factors should also be respected, material opportunities, opportunities we currently have, etc. and reach the development of certain services. I must say that organizations dealing with the protection and rescue of all species in the Republic of Croatia are at an enviable level of organization. And we're not even close to starting over, but all we have to do is tie that system up. If there are certain problems especially at the state level with the establishment of such a state administration in such a way, it has been six years and a new way needs to be considered, it needs to be seen what does not work. That this is so that we have several times the articulated attitudes of certain organizations that there are certain problems, unfortunately I have to say that it was seen by Kornath, from the crash of planes on Velebit, from floods in Lika, from the last floods, etc. There will therefore need to be an overload in this system. When the state body is just so large, and the state administration is large is essentially organized in a way that practically starts to be in part and purpose itself, then it's time to review that system and see what we can do. Especially when it costs millions of dollars. And you know that several million kunas or tens of millions of kunas at a certain level in many ways improve or repair the situation especially in protection and rescue. This will therefore need to be seen because of various services, departments, subsections, subsections, and departments, etc. I'm not organisationally downplaying or underestimating the organization system. But the fact that the system rests today in municipalities, cities and counties, under the law are responsible mayors, mayors and mayors, and then this system should be put in place to the end and allow at these levels where 90% of the work is being solved in a high-quality manner. And I see my time is running out, then I'll finish. Here's what needs to be done. First, we should put a regional centre if the price is 700 thousand kuna to be made possible in this way, and we think it is one of the preconditions for getting a centre, or regional centre that was overlooked in Split. Secondly, it is necessary to reform, transform the state administration in a way that we connect it functionally and organisationally to end at the level of municipalities, cities and counties. Also a system one, one, two that exists today should organise it in such a way functional and highly rational with which major savings will be achieved at the levels of cities, counties and states. So I repeat, and that's where I end up. The EU doesn't order us to do anything in the country. The EU declarations or directives say we must establish a system, that we must have a compatible system. How we in the national state in the national system will establish it in what way it depends on every national state. At present, every national state in Europe has a different system. No one has the same system and it is therefore wrong to insist on a single supersystem, a new system and build one system and this is happening to us at one point now and we are trying to build in one part of the system that currently has no country in Europe but one seems to me. When I speak I don't mean the former countries would be iron curtains, I don't mean the east, I mean Western countries that are our role models. Here, I thank you once more, so I'll be thanking you individually if there's anything left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61529	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61530	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Coslevac, you said the proposal to this law would make the Regional Center disappear. That's not true. The questions to be addressed by this law are provided for by the State Administration for the Protection and Rescue to take over jobs, equipment, writing and other documentation, financial resources and the regional centre's commitments to provide assistance and the removal of the consequences of disasters, as well as officials and subsistence found at the taken-over jobs. So this service will not disappear, but will be taken over by the State Department for Protection and Rescue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61531	And another correction, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61532	I am correcting the inaccuracies of my fellow Kozlevac that there is no overlap between the jurisdiction of the regional centre and the jurisdiction of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. When comparing the responsibilities of the regional centre and the responsibilities of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, then it is clear that they are completely overlapping and, of course, there is no need to ignore these savings that will be achieved. And since we know that from 2004 to today, the regional centre has been spent on the state budget of about 30 million kuna, and now all these powers are being taken over by the Protection and Rescue Authority, then it is evident that overlapping, unnecessary overlapping and spending on two sides is taking place.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61533	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00. It's on behalf of the HSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61534	Okay, here we go. We're gonna keep working on this afternoon's session. Last time I ran a meeting like this sometime this afternoon, there was a record of six MPs in the Parliament. It's just as much now, so it's all in the Rules of Procedure. We continue to discuss clubs. For the HSS club, a respected representative, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, honored by the promoter. The proposal for a law supplementing the Protection and Rescue Act is therefore an amendment that will be supported by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party. These amendments and additions to the law shall be governed by the termination of the work of the Regional Centre for the Aiding and Elimination of disaster, the activity of which is equivalent to one part of the activities carried out by the State Protection and Rescue Authority under the Protection and Rescue Act. The adoption of this law will achieve the purpose of the existing public administration structure. It also implements one of the public administration reform measures set out in the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is the reorganisation of agencies and other legal persons with public authority. The entry into force of this law ceases to apply the Regulation establishing a regional aid centre, removing the consequences of disasters, and the Regional Centre for the Aid and Elimination of the Consequences of disaster ceases to work on the day of registration, erasing in the court register. The National Protection and Rescue Authority shall take over the tasks, officials and deputies, business premises, equipment, rights and obligations of the Regional Centre, and the financial resources necessary to carry out the tasks undertaken. All activities and projects of the regional centre are included in the State Protection and Rescue Administration's financial plan, and 650,000 kuna savings are made in the budget. We at the Croatian Peasant Party club will support the adoption of this law, because we believe it is extremely important to have a unique system of protection and rescue when it comes to disaster behaviour regardless of whether natural or technological. Let us not forget that in the vicinity of our border in several neighbouring countries there are energy facilities including nuclear power plants that pose a potential danger, but also that due to the inappropriate action of certain companies in neighbouring countries, we are exposed to various pressures on human health and the environment. I will also remind you of the latest event in the Hungarian place of Colontar when there was an industrial incident. In that incident, about 800,000 metres of cubic red mud was poured out. About 1,000 ha of these settlements were flooded, with nine deaths, 123 injured, and 700 contaminated. Co-ordinated activities of the Centre 112, i.e. the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and Croatian Waters with colleagues from Hungary, Croatia, are fortunately not affected by this technological disaster that took place in Hungary. The Republic of Croatia has been imported into international systems to exchange early warning information in the areas of radiological nuclear safety, flood defence, meteoric data, information on epidemics, pandemics, infectious and other infectious diseases, plant diseases, food safety, and measures recommended in the interest of safety and safety and the rescue of the population. The 112 state centre is an entry and exit national contact point for exchange in most early warning information. We at the HSS Club welcome the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which adopted the Protection and Rescue Plan for the Republic of Croatia at its meeting on 29 July 2010, because we believe that we needed such a document. In fact, we live daily with the risks of natural dangers. When it comes to natural dangers such as earthquakes, floods, glides, droughts, orcians, they happen through earth’s history continuously and today. They are classified as disasters if they adversely affect man and his activities. Regardless of the type of danger when a major disaster occurs, they always result in primary secondary and tertiary effects. This is, for example, the collapse of buildings or victims that occur in the event of earthquakes, interruptions in drinking water supply and electricity in the event of an earthquake or flood, or the loss of space for housing needs due to changes caused by earthquake or flood, and the loss of crops as a result of natural hazards. Experience shows that the vulnerability of the community to natural disasters and major disasters decreases with the growth of their overall development. The developed communities suffered damages of 2% of their GDP from 1990 to 2001 and not developed by as much as 13% of GDP. In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of disasters associated with the increase in the number of human victims and the damages expressed in money. Comparative indicators of this type are used as a global experience background and are of special benefit to identify protection and rescue plans, development guidelines and desired characteristics of the protection and rescue system in the Republic of Croatia which we consider well organised in the HSS and therefore will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61536	I thank the esteemed representative, and I call upon the esteemed representative, Danica Hurs, to take his word on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61537	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the respected legislators, colleagues and colleagues. There is another law before us that tries to help streamline and save on the spending side of the budget by abolishing, joining or attaching various agencies, institutions, funds. It seems to me that this is already the tenth law we've discussed in that sequence. This time, the facility, the regional centre for assistance and the removal of the consequences of disaster based in Divulja, or regional disaster centre, is being abolished. What does the proposer argue with the need to abolish this regional centre? I'd say nothing. What kind of savings is he planning on spending the budget? Where's that information? If there are savings, why is it a secret, for us MPs, or is it a secret for the proposer himself? This way of proposing laws, evaluations of the situation and arguments that follow the whole legislative procedure is not appropriate for the promoter, but neither will the MPs for us. The 2010 budget, but not in this legislative proposal, says that 5.6 million kuna will be allocated for employees' salaries 2.6, for material expenditure 1.6, and for the adaptation of the centre in Divulje 1.1 million kuna. Yesterday, we heard from the Prime Minister that he is not making painful moves on the expenditure side of the budget, because he has no support for the opposition to his solutions. This law is a good illustration of the whole problem. The government does not, in any sense, suggest why it makes any moves or what it wants to accomplish. This bill would necessarily have the content of how much of the last 5.6 years' regional disaster centre has spent budget money, and for what purposes? What did he do in return, and what is the assessment of the work of the regional centre? How many employees are in the regional center? What jobs can the National Protection and Rescue Authority take over without a problem? How many employees and tenants will withdraw these jobs? How many people are gonna be out of a job? What total savings are foreseen in the budget? And finally, what happens to the Wildlife Center? For such transparent proposals with public and reasoned reasons, the applicant may count and seek support in the Assembly. Since this is not the case, the promoter gives the impression that panickingly and without any system, he makes solutions and decisions as an alibi for the government to do something. The HNS Club, the HSU, wants to support good, and publicly reasoned proposals that are on the trail of savings in spending total budget money. That is why we are looking for a presentation of all relevant information on public affairs, sustainability of the system and the effects that will cause this bill. According to these answers by the HNS Club, HSU will be manifested under this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61538	Thank you very much. Now we've heard the views of all the registered clubs, and we'll move on to an individual debate. The first reported, in fact, let's take the turn, Zvonimir Mršić, Romana Jerkovic. They're not here. Dragutin Lesar. He's not here. But Mirela Holly, the esteemed representative Holly is here, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61539	Thank you, Vice President. I will not repeat what has already been said in the debate, about the reasons why the SDP club will not support the adoption of this law, but I will look back on the bad side of this law, which also affects the general system of protection and rescue in the Republic of Croatia, which is very bad and which is functioning in principle not knowing who drinks, who pays. This regional centre, i.e. the regional centre, is founded by a government regulation as we know it and is established for, I am now quoting, to run disaster databases, to exchange information relevant for the protection and rescue of disasters, to take preventive measures to reduce disaster potential, to coordinate procedures related to cross-border procedures, to provide quick assistance to prevent the occurrence, or to remove the consequences of disasters, to coordinate joint action plans, to receive and to provide assistance to other countries in the protection and rescue, and to remove consequences in disasters, to train and training management and specialist teams from the field of protection and rescue, and to plan and implement exercises from the area of protection and rescue, which includes the involvement of international management and rescue teams. Why did I read all this? In order to point out that this very description shows that the main business of this body was planning, i.e. making certain plans, interventions could also be said, and protocols which, meaning the competent authorities should stick to in the event of such a disaster. Unfortunately, we have had the opportunity to see, but in several cases, that this system in the Republic of Croatia is actually ineffective, lacking, that there is no knowledge of what should be happening at all, so in this sense I will also remind myself of that terrible tragedy in the Kornati that occurred, where they have scheduled all possible services that were meant to work, and also floods in the Kosinj Valley that we have seen and the recent floods with which the Republic of Croatia met this autumn also do not give us much optimism about how this system will work at all. God forbid we have an even worse disaster, some kind of big environmental incident like we had a chance to see in Hungary a little less than a month ago, it is indeed a question of how the Republic of Croatia would deal with such a disaster of great proportions. In that sense, I would also mention another case, which occurred during the recent flood, recent floods, is that during the recent floods, the area around the Sava Marof was flooded and partly the area where the Pliva factory, or Teva and Kvasac, is located. The public is very well known that these industrial plants have caused major pollution, i.e. pollution of the Gorjak stream and that despite the fact that the owners of the plant are obliged to resuscitate the Gorjak stream in which, apart from the concentration of heavy metals, bacteria that are resistant to all types of antibiotics produced in this plant, nothing has been done today. What am I talking about? Because during the recent floods, during the flood of the Gorjak stream itself, there was a spilling of contents from the Gorjak stream into the surrounding fields, oranics and houses and competent bodies according to my knowledge did absolutely nothing to respond to this very disturbing case because it is not harmless when bacteria are resistant to all types of antibiotics spilling through the fields because it is possible to actually infect humans, animals of enormous proportions. And in that sense, I don't really think we have any optimism about the existing system of protection and rescue, and I think that the abolition of this regional centre, literally abolishing because it says so in this bill, will not contribute to establishing a better and better quality protection and rescue in the Republic of Croatia because, despite the fact that we still have one central body that is responsible for handling, and we see that the government is absolutely chaos and that we really don't know who is drinking, who is paying, and I think this is a serious topic that we in the Assembly should be dealing with in a slightly more serious way to see at all what all the problems are and what we need to do on this issue in the Republic so that God doesn't allow some catastrophes of broader proportions to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61540	Thank you very much. We have an application to correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61541	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm correcting Mrs. Mirale Holly's wrong quote not in the wrong interpretation, but the truth works with... problems related to Pliva and the restoration of the Gorjak stream, since this is the area where my city is indirectly bound. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the fact is, that's the problem. It's been sitting backwards for 30, 40 or 50 years, but I'm correcting the assumption that nothing or nothing has been done about it. The fact is that the competent ministry and Croatian water have determined and have already calculated the financial value of the complete recovery of the Gorjak stream as such in such a way that Pliva cannot do so or in any way outside the institutions that are competent to do so. And that's also the fact that this cost-and-work recovery value is worth about 10m euros. So, in itself, it speaks about the weight of the problem itself, but also about the fact that it was taken on this basis and in this context, and in narrowing the weight of the problem, we find that the issue of recovery has been brought into a state that is already... for recovery and I have no doubt that it will be done in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61542	Thank you very much. It's our guest, Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61543	Dear Vice President, here's another esteemed colleague and colleague. So let me tell you next about today's amendments and amendments to the law that abolishs the Regional Centre in Divulje, but we are talking about the Law on Protection and Amendments and Supplements to the Protection and Rescue Act and, as I said before, the Protection and Rescue Act, that is, protection and rescue is one multidisciplinary area, I don't know what to call it, multi-resorship, is more activity in it, or all activities. I even don't think any area is as complex as protecting and saving. Therefore, it is impossible now to just talk about the regional centre exclusively as one of the ways that have been in the past 10 years an attempt to be in Croatia through one mechanism, means the establishment of a regional centre allows further development and promotion to so say and introduce technologies, equipment organisations, experience, knowledge, everything that exists today in the developed world around us. When I'm talking about the protection of rescue, I have to be very precise here because I'm sad that in the current establishment of the protection and rescue system in the Republic of Croatia, I won't say it primarily, but in the good part, if not primarily used the experience of Eastern European countries. From Albania, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary to Russia. The experiences Croatia must use in this area are experiences with Western European countries. I will not say Slovenia, come on, Austria, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, etc., not only because they are Western Europe, because Mediterranean countries are also a good part which I have listed and we have the same tradition and the same history of system development, so we belong to the same cultural area. Unfortunately, therefore, many of the experiences that are currently being implemented in the RS protection and rescue system are the experiences of these countries behind the "iron curtain". I must say, these are the experiences. We still have the whole development of the service and even after '45. We had a significantly different than those Eastern European countries. I'd like us to copy, I said copying maybe because we don't need to invent hot water more times for some things, keep Western European countries and their experiences and their solutions. So the Regional Centre was just one attempt, we said with which countries okay. He probably should've spread and eventually he should've been turned into a fire-fighting centre. It implies in that Mediterranean pool of countries that are gravitating there, and he had that function. Unfortunately, we're shutting it down for 700 thousand kuna savings, etc. And we're shutting down a mechanism that was there ready to enable exactly what we were talking about. But I'd get right on this, considering we said there was a overlap in business. It's not about overlapping. It's about two completely different things. The regional center is one thing, the state administration is another thing. As far as the rescue system is concerned, I'm asking and I know we're going to do it because there are certain problems, the current implementation of the system. In the Republic of Croatia is currently trying to implement a system that is not complementary to the level of all systems that exist so far. If you want the army, the police, the firemen, the Red Cross, the Mountain Service, I don't know what I forgot because it's hard to list because there are a lot of subjects. Therefore, it needs Western European countries to be used. I will tell you once again that no Western European country in Europe if you want EU countries to have the same system. It's not the same system, it's not. Not a single country. System one, one, two, which I now have to say aggressively in a way that doesn't want to go any faster than what can be absorbed by the service organisation, by the present structure, by the systems that exist, etc. absorb to try to implement a system where no one in Europe has implemented it. He's gone. From Austria, Germany, etc. There are various solutions. Europe has imposed a directive and is forcing all its member states to say in some period of time that I do not know exactly, there is a period of time where we need to establish a system, system one, one, two systems of mutual communication through a single European centre, etc. How are we gonna do that in our own house? It leaves it to every country to do it for itself. Therefore, there isn't. We repeatedly in a way that we want to implement something like this law, etc. Then the EU asks, demands, we must, the directive, and normally we are in phase two, three years the EU has said it immediately and we do it. We don't have to do anything many times. But someone said now is the chance to do something for that reason. Therefore, there will need to be a shift, an organization. There'll be a shift in the organization. In European countries there is a national body, you have administrations, you have administrations with ministries, you have agencies. Protection and rescue is a temporary professional activity, less administrative professional activity. The management of the business has done different things to the states. We have a state administration office, it has to exist, but it has to come to a transformation. The state administration is its primary role in creating legal frameworks, frameworks with regulations where systems will develop each for themselves, because there is a network of systems. Our unique system, it's gone. There's every system for itself. The State Administration has to propose frameworks, regulations where each of these services, organisation, association, legal entity, institution will independently enable it to develop even more quality within its activities, and all in order to be able to answer questions and problems that may arise at a given time. It is therefore the role of the state body. The state body must move away from the county, the local level, that is, what we have at local level today must be in the function of cities and counties, exclusively in that function and in the professional performance of the business. And the state must maintain control, control, inspection and the right to suspend a particular part of the system if it does not work. It's the role of the central state in that. Because every disaster starts from the municipality, the city, the county, the role of the state is to create frameworks to inspire, to control the system's functioning and role is to force every legal person to take action. And we can't create supersedes, superstitions that will answer all the questions that happen here. You used to mention atomic energy, chemical pollution, fires, floods, earthquakes, etc. And in each branch we have specialized companies, legal entities, service institutions, etc. They need to be trained, they need to create frameworks and they need to make everything that needs to be done on behalf of the state. There is the role of this part, not to bring down certain professional jobs, in matters at local level because it loses the purpose of the entire system. It's the role of the state in that whole story. I'm going towards the end, so I'm going back to the whole implementation that's already started that's causing some problems on the ground. It has to be delicate, sensitive, slow, it's done in many parts with associations, with volunteers. When I talk about associations and here I just want to point out that multiple times from the state level from the state administrations on the association speak in an inappropriate way. Europe seeks to enable civil society, especially legal persons associations, where the free will of association is expressed for something to carry out professional specialised tasks for the state. It's the development of civil society. Therefore, associations when we speak never with disdain. What an association will do, the state will, the administration will, the service will, the institution will. It is not true, especially when it comes to associations of legal persons and associations of citizens. it's in the state to control the inspection and whether someone's doing the work they've given him or taking over. It's the role of the state. Therefore, we must strive to do so among other things for the purpose of rationality. Not everything can be professionalized to create services, appliances, administrations, etc. Finally, the state administration is here, and we've seen the cost of 170 million kuna. It was extremely big money, and it worked for 5 years, and before that was the system there was no state administration, for example. You know that by 2005, there was a resolution body of the Ministry of the Interior with 20 employees, there was a MORH with that system of 985 etc. So it's big money, we have to pursue rationality because it's a multidisciplinary integrated system. And that's where he'd end up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61544	Thank you very much. Replica esteemed representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61545	Dear Mr. Representative, you mentioned in your speech and problem you touched on the edge and issues of radiation protection and nuclear energy. I would just like to say that this segment in the Republic of Croatia is very poorly covered by some organised plans in the event of a nuclear or radiological accident. The city of Zagreb is only 25 km from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. However, we do not have a elaborate system of measures, such as how to protect the public from that first feather of radioactive iodine. For example. The distribution of pillkali iodide is still a science fiction at the level of pure theory, not a practice as it has been developed in other countries that have nuclear plants on their territory or near their territory. This requires much more work to integrate this new Institute of Radiological and Nuclear Security with services, scientific institutions, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61546	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61547	Yes, what you mentioned here is the problem of the state already at the beginning. It is therefore a state level, regardless of what the border area is, regardless of what the City of Zagreb is at risk. There is therefore also the role and the municipalities in the environment and the City of Zagreb and the state in the beginning. What is primary and what is to be done, there should be plans, firstly there should be adequate judgment, assessment, adequate plan, and then there must be written in that plan and the obligations are foreseen, the responsibilities of each individual inside. What is very important is the role of the system that the state must make everyone do their part of the job, from specialised institutions, legal persons dealing with nuclear problems in their basic activities, with issues of radioactivity, etc. and until then the City of Zagreb and the state organizes, takes measures, acquires equipment and organises a system for ultimately taking care of people. So that's exactly the role of the state to do it, not to deal at some local level with whether a fire burned down 100 square meters, or if there was an accident on the road or not, I don't know what. The state-level system must deal with this, and at the level of municipalities, cities, the county has systems at these levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61548	Thank you very much. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Sima Lučina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61549	Mr. Vice President. I'll try to explain as soon as possible why I won't vote for this law. So two are the basic reasons. The first reason is because this law belongs to a group of cosmetic laws that the government is sending us to the Parliament these days. We should therefore vote in favour of these laws and of this law because in such a way some significant savings will be provided and the budget will be disbursed, and then the economy will benefit from it. Unfortunately, neither in this law nor in all those, there were 10 laws we discussed, no preceding analysis. It says something will be shut down, equipment and other inventory will be attached somewhere else and it is said that part of the staff will be taken, so it will be deployed elsewhere in the state administration, and part of it will be fired. Now, if we got an analysis of how much, where, how and what those savings are so I don't believe what my predecessor Kozlevac said would save 700 kuna. I'm not sure there'll be that much savings. So simply, these laws we've been discussing these days are nothing more than an attempt by the government to show us that she's buried, and she hasn't done that in reforming the state administration. So, with everything that we've done so far, the government hasn't gotten close to the target of 2,500 people as far as she said it had to be, that it would reduce the number of civil servants, etc., etc. So I just think that it's all unserious and that it's high time for the government to go into a more serious state administration reform because it's waiting for us, and the delaying of these painful cuts and changes as much as possible will be more difficult. And now another reason which is actually a specific reason and applies only to this law. So now the thesis is different, with this law and the abolition of the Regional Centre, I am afraid that there will be major political damage or possible political damage or possible political benefits that Croatia could have with this Regional Centre. So this law is not the first time to think, or to abolish a regional centre. That intensity has existed since 2004, actually as soon as it began to be abolished. So until certain ministers, so the people who were at the time did not explain the intensity and the very purpose of the centre, and until the Prime Minister of Sanader had actually figured out what this was all about on his journeys. That's when he publicly supported it and said that we should build this center. Now watch out, so why is this center still important? I will dare say that this is the first kind of station on the route to the European Union made by Croatia. So, I said something in the morning debate, i.e. the correction of false allegations, so that's at the second meeting of the quadritary, then we agreed that Croatia should one way become involved in a European story with some concrete tasks and especially in the sphere of security. And then, the Slovenians received one task, the Hungarians the other, and then Croatia got this one, so I will dare to tell a story about civil protection, or segment, where in a certain way we would cover this entire region with protection and rescue jobs, and this Regional Centre should do whatever is stated in the regulation or law. Now, I can trust the Secretary of State that it will most likely be none of the things that, in our neighbouring country, the Republic of Serbia will form a Regional Centre in Nis, and it doesn't have to. But I wouldn't be happy, given that we already have a tradition, that we have some references and some results, that in our environment one such center that we already have is being formed. So simply, regardless of whether there will be some new concept of this structure, whether it will be the centre of something already being talked about in Split, I think that we should have actually kept positions, or that if we thought to abolish that regional centre that should have left it until that moment until it was clear what a new concept and what a new concept would be and where it would be. So now we're going back to the old story. So, you have a government that's what it is, I could talk a lot. I won't talk about the Kornati or the floods or the staff incapacitation, I won't talk about excessive administrative costs, so they don't have any business with Cor business, etc., etc. And so we just had this little oasis that worked in a certain way, and I'm sorry that we don't have an idea of what international references were like, what the centre of the Divuljas had. I know that since the state administration formed, it's been trying to suck that seat in the wild. Well, it might have been better to suck it up, but it remains as it is to preserve this good starting position for some future Croatian European story or Croatian story in Europe. So I don't really understand that logic. For a few places, for a few jobs, to save one executive or two executive positions in the State Administration we will actually lose one good position, one good situation. So it just seems to me that the lack of concept and strategy throughout this entire segment of protection and rescue actually results in these situations. I know that's not a question for the Secretary of State, that someone else from the government, say Mr. Mlakar, I'd probably ask him why they take, say, I don't know these institutions, institutions, agencies, agencies that are connected, and some others aren't taken and not connected. Although I could now list some agencies that have been formed by tomorrow, which no one has ever heard of in Croatia, let alone in Europe and for which no one knows what they are doing, who they control. But we are actually going to destroy what has already been said in a tradition, which has already been established and what is already known beyond the borders of Croatia and what I have to say is a certain, or has a history. So, here's to not going further into the details of the still elaborate, not to look at general failures in the administration and failures in the protection and rescue segment. But obviously the problem with lack is I'm not going to show visions, but actually concepts and strategies. This one doesn't know what to do, so it seems to me to be wandering in this way and then, so it goes in a line of less resistance. Those in whose sector it is simply accept it, do not fight at the government or where it is necessary in some coordination to prove that it does not make sense to end it. If we had to save, so 700, 500, million kunas, then we should have said here we're going to send 5, 10, 15 people home. Be careful not to send 5 people home, but to remove something that has its own reason, which has all that, so what led me to end up doing this way than we're going to end something and we're going to send people home. So here's the reason why I can't just vote for a bill like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61550	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61551	Here I am correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Lucinians. He said that by shutting down the regional centre, big political damage would be done. Maybe my colleague Lucin is a little sentimental because this regional centre was actually founded at a time when he was a minister. But it's been a long time since then, and it's changed a lot. And I'm surprised that my colleague Lucin doesn't know that, for example, a meeting was held in Belgrade on 4 May this year where a contract was signed where the countries were signatories of the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, Slovenia, Serbia and Croatia, in which it was agreed, meant that a specialized Centre for Training and Monitoring of Responses would actually be specialized in Divulja, and the centre should be to monitor reactions in the event of forest fires. That means it's not true that this, that nothing is going to happen and that there's a danger of being this regional centre in Nis as it was in the wilds. And especially what Nis provides for something completely different. So it's some kind of anti-chemical training center. So, about this...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61552	Thank you very much. Correction timed out. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61553	209. I don't know what Mr. Chuljak was correcting, my sentimentality or what. But you were completely illogical. You say something's going to form almost the same place, and we end it. Why is it that something we're going to form almost the same at the same place we're ending?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61554	In my opinion, the correction was within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. The allegations of political damage were corrected. We'll go with the next one. This is colleague Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61555	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. With the economic recovery programme, the Government of the Republic of Croatia as one of the measures of public administration reform foresees an analysis of the purpose of the existing structure of agencies, institutions and other regulatory bodies. The reorganisation at this stage proposes the abolition, merger, accession of legal persons with public powers which does not affect the fulfilment of the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia during the accession negotiations with the European Union. In determining the purpose and part-time of individual agencies, institutions, funds and other legal entities with public authority, and the development of a reorganisation proposal, care was taken of the same tasks already carried out in individual ministries, even setting up internal establishment units identical to the name of the Agency, the Institute, or the Fund, and it was also proposed to remove the regional centre for the provision of assistance and the removal of the existing consequences of disasters. Since the activities of the regional centres are identical in part of the activities of the State Protection and Rescue Authority, which is carried out through the Civil Protection Service, is the holder of the coordination of the participation of the operational forces of protection and rescue and other participants in the protection and rescue activities, and direct management and orders of the Civil Protection Forces on disaster and major accidents, and through the International Co-operation Department is coordinating the implementation of work related to international cooperation in the field of protection and rescue. The State Administration for Protection and Rescue will take over this law of business, equipment, writing and other documentation, means of work, financial resources and the rights and obligations of regional centres to help eliminate the consequences of disasters, as well as officials and subsistences found over the undertaken jobs. I also consider it justified for the adoption of this law to be subject to an emergency procedure because this law implements one of the measures set out in the Economic Recovery Programme. For all the above, I will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61556	Thank you very much. And the last reported for this debate is Honorable Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61557	Thank you, Vice President. In his opening statement, Mr. Secretary of State said one sentence, I will quote that this is in the process, that this is, the purpose is the functional integration of all the components of the protection and rescue systems, and I agree, that it is important that in the country all those resources that are in the interest of preventing all forms of disaster and protecting citizens function on an efficient, modern and way that will ensure that citizens are safe, prevent certain disasters, and if by any chance they come into action spottically, quickly, efficiently and do not happen certain things as we have had the opportunity to see on the sad and fatal consequences. Since this is an addition to the law, i.e. on state administration and the protection of rescue, I think it is necessary to say a few words about how the state administration works at this point. I'm afraid the state administration is turning into a mastodon, where it's a matter of efficiency, the speed of reaction to the last question, I think it's a fundamental issue of state administration, takes everything under its hat, and we'll agree how things work out. The fact is that there are misunderstandings between the state administration and, for example, firefighters, that there are misunderstandings in the functioning of the state administration and the Croatian Mountain Protection and Rescue Service, which should be noted because of Croatian citizens that it is a volunteer association, which, with 6 million kunas per year, means all those people who save our citizens from the worth of Velebit to all other things that jump out of helicopters, are volunteers. The attitude of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue towards them is not adequate. It is certain that these relations must be followed, and that all segments of the state administration, i.e. the State Administration component, must be respected in a manner that they carry out. I think the citizens of the Republic of Croatia primarily know when, God forbid to get to a certain hall, that there are firefighters, that there are police, that there is a Croatian Mountain Protection and Rescue Service, that these are people who will help in the event of an accident, and that the state administration is something that is there, and that they still haven't seen how and how it works, except when it is too late, and the last example is the flood that was around the Zagreb area, Velika Gorica, and in Sisak-Moslavina County. And now something about money. It has been said that the regional centre has cost the Croatian budget over the past 6 years 29 million, which is about 5 million a year. The comparisons work, according to the final budget rebalancing, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue spends 21 million and 560 thousand on costs for services. So the State Administration for Budget Protection and Rescue has 21 and a half million kuna per year on expenses for services. The regional centre cost Croatian taxpayers 29 million in 6 years. Of course, it comes when almost a quarter of the regional centre's budget, which is about 400,000 kuna, is spent on the State Protection and Rescue Day celebration. I agree that there is a need to think about rationalising, saving, saving budgets, reducing expenditure, but I also think that we must look to the future together, and see what benefits are from what we have at this point in Croatia, which is set up at European standards, according to NATO standards, and all other standards adopted by the countries in which we want to join tomorrow. A few sentences about what this institution has done so far. It is the only institution of this type in the region, and what colleagues had previously mentioned about the danger of moving to Serbia again, it was also discussed in time many years ago about air traffic control, which was supposed to be here in Croatia, so it went somewhere else, and it was said not to. Let's not let that sort of thing happen again. The regional centre in 6 years of work organized 140 international courses, conferences, workshops and exercises, that over 5 thousand participants participated in all these activities, and what is very important to say that the regional centre, which the secretary of state, knows very well, and that people who now integrate very well know that there are indeed international reputation for people, i.e. regional disaster centres in Divulja, international reputation in European and global scales for jobs that have been done so far. I believe that quality, expertise, the ability of people who have been doing this work for the past six years, who have done their best with their knowledge, education, and expertise to achieve a high level of international cooperation, that this will not be an obstacle to their work and work tomorrow within the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, because I am afraid that in the way we are going, that people who have done their job very responsibly, professionally and professionally, and in the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, there is no shortage of education, investment in equipment, it is evident, that they will not be found on the street tomorrow. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61558	Thank you very much. We don't have any more logs. Here is the closing statement from the respected Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61559	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here I have really listened very carefully and I am sorry that there have been a lot of misunderstandings here, in the discussions of certain parliamentary representatives, so I would just refer to this element of internationality, which Mr. Lucin mentioned, Mr. Dragovan, Mrs. Holy. One institution cannot be international because the country's government adopts a regulation and declares it international. A certain institution becomes international when more states sign agreements or contracts to form an international institution. I think that's clear. And afterwards, these contractual agreements come to the parliament of each country for ratification, where these agreements must be brought into line with the domestic legal order of each member state of those agreements and contracts, thus ensuring the element of internationality. It was not an international centre because the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation on the establishment of an international centre on 29 November 2001. If several institutions from several countries had joined the founding decision, then we can say it is an international centre. This was a Croatian centre founded by the Croatian government, and we are not shutting down any international institution that will cause damage in the international public. As for Mrs. Holly, and her comments. She used to say that different help services could be provided. It is also not just a decision, i.e. a regulation of the Government. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has signed a series of international agreements with the governments of other countries which have regulated aid issues so that some of the forces from the Republic of Croatia may go to other countries must be primarily called by the competent authorities of those countries and an agreement must be signed which will regulate the conduct of the other State, possible compensation, compensation and everything else. There is no unilateral departure to other countries without an agreement between the governments of the two states, and the government of the Republic of Croatia has signed several such agreements with Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, BiH and a number of other countries over the past few years. This ensures an international element, an international component, not by declaring the government an international institution by its regulation. As for this opportunity for Croatia to become a centre, Croatia has indeed made efforts and what Mr Lucin said that during the time of Prime Minister Sanader's government there were attempts that were in 2005, 2006. However, the same thing was all about reaching an agreement. Consensus was to be reached with other possible Member States of these international centres. Of course there's been a lot of negotiations, there's been a lot of elements about equipment. Who will pay for the equipment, what it will look like, what standards it will meet, and that is why the initiative has failed, but it has not given up. So Croatia will not lose that international centre. Namely, as Representative Culjak said on 4 May this year, conclusions were made in Serbia between the authorised representatives of the states of Albania, BiH, Montenegro, Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia where it is said that the Republic of Serbia will host the regional and regional centre, the Regional Specialisation Centre for Training and Monitoring, a response in the event of wildfires. But all these listed states will sign that agreement and thus be... a truly true international centre. Not declared a decision or regulation by the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia but under the usual international procedure, agreements will be signed and international elements will be provided. Here, I think there was a little misunderstanding. So, Croatia did not want to abolish any international institution, it did not want to embarrass itself in international frameworks – on the contrary. And this, when these conclusions are operationalized by an agreement or by a decision or contract that will be here in the Croatian Parliament at the confirmation, the EU will provide every euro from Croatian sources 10 euros from international funds so that the co-financing ratio of the centre in Divulje will be one to ten; 1 euro from Croatian funds, one part from European funds. Here, I felt the need to explain these things a little bit because I felt that there was not enough understanding and I believe that even the conclusions from the highest representatives' meetings in defence of these countries will become operational very quickly and will be joined and signed by the agreement, and then the formation of a real international fire centre in Divulje. And just in the end, so I don't forget, I accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61560	Thank you very much. Here, I hereby conclude the debate on this item of the agenda, and we will vote on the final proposal of this law as soon as the conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61561	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Protection and Rescue Act was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 607, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Protection and Rescue Act, together with the amendments adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority, 74 votes in favour, no abstentions and 31 against, together with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61562	We're going to the next item on the agenda. This is - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Malta on the fight against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, organised crime and international terrorism, emergency procedure, that is P.Z. No. 611 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by post, and on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure know that the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings and that amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate on this final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received reports from the board at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary, Mr. Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61563	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let me just point out for a moment that before you, the Act on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Malta on the fight against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances is that I am now not counting everything together. I would say with pleasure that this is another in a series of bilateral agreements found at the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the Republic of Croatia has so far signed 35 agreements with, or 34 bilateral international agreements with different countries, which the EU, as Southeast Europe as well as outside the EU. These agreements have proved to be excellent tools and instruments to ensure that countries of the signatories are even more effective, even more effective in the fight against different forms of crime. The agreements are signed with different countries in line with the problems most prominent and most appropriate between the Republic of Croatia and other signatories of the agreement. In recent times, agreements have been signed under new models, we are renewing some old contracts that are also out of date, i.e. do not match the spirit of time, and I am sure that this agreement will also give the Ministry of Interior a good instrument that together with the competent authorities of Malta have good tools, good tools in the fight against those forms of crime that are in some way common between the Republic of Croatia and Malta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61564	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, they don't. Well, then I'm opening up a debate. We're going after clubs, first of all it's the HDZ club and respected representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61565	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, they don't. Well, then I'm opening up a debate. We're going after clubs, first of all it's the HDZ club and respected representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61566	Thank you very much. Now it's the next club, it's the HSS club and respected representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. This agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Malta is the result of a common desire to promote and deepen mutual cooperation in the fight against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, organised crime and international terrorism. It establishes a legal framework for mutual cooperation between the two countries in the fight against crime, which specifically implies providing mutual assistance in the supervision of persons involved in organised crime, the exchange of all useful information, the establishment of the most appropriate means of communication, and mutual cooperation in the field of witness protection. And we at the HSS Club will support the ratification of this agreement. Taking into account the fact that international co-operation is one of the most important factors in preventing and effectively combating organised crime in particular in the field of drugs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of the Interior and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a national coordination body for drug enforcement, has been working intensively for recent years on numerous reforms and strengthening international and regional cooperation in the area of drug abuse prevention. Since Croatia is ahead of the structure of the drug abuse system in strategic planning and in the implementation of the measures and the results achieved, we are recognised as a partner. Our system is an example of good practice, and experience is a quality basis for co-operation with countries in the region as well as with EU countries. The national strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2006-2012, which is fully in line with EU strategic documents in this area, has enabled intensive development of supply reduction and drug demand programmes with particular emphasis on the importance of international and regional co-operation. The establishment of the department of the National Drug Information Unit and the International Co-operation Office of the Drug Abuse Control Office has achieved operational co-operation with the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, while the National Drug Information System is now in high compliance with the standards of the EU agency. Croatia is working actively with relevant international organisations, bilateral and regional cooperation and using available European funds to improve the problem of drug use and drug abuse and to participate in policy-making and professional approaches in this area. As part of the negotiations for the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia in Chapter 24. – Justice, freedom and security are also covered by the topic of drug cooperation. At the meetings of the Sub-Committee on Justice, Freedom and Security of the European Commission, the system of combating drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia has been presented with a view to meeting the obligations arising from relevant EU documents. It should be pointed out that the adoption of basic strategic documents in the area of drug abuse prevention, the development of a national drug information system in accordance with the standards of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction and the establishment of a national contact point at the MUP, which will allow the transfer and exchange of drug samples from the relevant EU acquis. For many years, Croatia has been actively involved in the work of the European Network of National Drug Information Units, the European Monitoring Centre and Drug Addiction, thanks to the European Commission's pre-accession assistance programmes that have enabled the development of the National Information System for Drugs in the Republic of Croatia and the harmonisation of national practices with European standards. It should be stressed that, of all countries in the region, only Croatia and Turkey have operational national drug information units, which is also the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, and will therefore have an advanced work programme within the IPA project. The government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government Office's initiatives to combat drug abuse have also been encouraged to strengthen regional co-operation in the area of drug trafficking, with a special focus on drug demand reduction programmes. For the national interest of the Republic of Croatia is an extremely important project relating to the establishment of a guide training centre and training of official dogs at the Ministry of the Interior. The Republic of Croatia, thanks to its long-standing experience and positive results in the area over the last few years, has received applications and assistance and support from several countries in the region. Croatia has also established bilateral co-operation with a number of countries to discuss and plan joint projects. It is considered particularly important to establish full cooperation with the UK, Spain, Germany and Austria. Bilateral co-operation with the Russian Federation and cooperation with the United States and the People's Republic of China's embassies in the Republic of Croatia, as well as cooperation with the Israeli anti-drug agency, has been achieved. We believe that all these activities will contribute to the joint fight against illegal drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, the fight against organised crime and international terrorism, aimed at preventing the modern plague of the 21st century, which is certainly what drugs are. Annuals in Croatia die between 80 and 150 young people because of drug abuse, so we believe that, in addition to repressive measures, it is necessary to implement prevention measures in order to reduce the supply and availability of drugs on the market. I would like to stress that we at the Croatian Peasant Party club believe that the family is crucial to the healthy education of young people and that the family plays a key role in prevention. Therefore, all levels of government should provide maximum support to the family as a basic unit of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61568	Thank you very much. And the third and last club registered is the HNS-HSU club. In the name of the club, a respected representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61569	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On 7 April 2010, the Agreement was signed in Zagreb between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Malta on the fight against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, organised crime and international terrorism. This law proposes to confirm a signed agreement establishing a legal framework for mutual co-operation between the two countries in the field of the fight against crime. In order to implement this Agreement, a Co-operation Committee will be established in the fight against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances and against organised crime. The Committee shall consist of representatives of both ministries, police officers and experts in the areas listed in this Agreement. The UN's latest report on drug and crime in Vienna said that illegal transport and drug trafficking in Europe increased by 40%, taking into account, for example, an exctasy of as much as 68%. Given its geostrategic position, Croatia is a transit country through which drugs are smuggled on the road between producer countries and consumer countries and is one of the more active links of the Balkan route. The route, which starts in Croatia at the Bajakovo border crossing across Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, enters Croatia mostly by road towards Slovenia, and thus to the Western European countries, Scandinavia and Great Britain in the north. Lately, the route has become two-way, so from countries of the golden mid-month via Turkey, Macedonia, Bulgaria, Romania and Serbia most often opium, but also other drugs enter Croatia towards the west. Also, from the west, cocaine and synthetic drugs such as amphetamines and especially among young people are popular exctasy traffickers across countries in Eastern and Southeast Europe and Western Asia. Politics and drugs are in constant interaction. A pillar of the organisation and quality of each country's structure can be measured by the relationship to the prevention of drug use. In the continuing conflict of a powerful drug lobby and state, there is no winner or winner, there are only shifts with positive or negative signs. The fact remains that drugs have become an integral part of the growth of a large part of our Croatian youth, but also of the world. Three segments have been defined to combat drug abuse. The first is to prevent drug trafficking, the second is to care about drug users and addicts and the third is to prevent them. With intensive work to prevent drug trafficking, which will contribute to this law, and with a particularly intensive and effective prevention, we will certainly have fewer concerns in Croatia about users and drug addicts than I have already said for what reasons. Since organised crime as well as terrorism very often do not know the borders of the countries in which they operate, the aim is not to care for the victims on their way, effective international mechanisms for monitoring, suppressing and effective stopping them should be introduced. International co-operation is therefore indeed an important factor in preventing and effectively combating illicit drug trafficking, organised crime and international terrorism, and this agreement is a further positive shift in the relations between the Croatian and Malta states which have so far concluded five bilateral international agreements that are legally regulated areas of cooperation of interest for both countries. And finally, because of the better and healthier and safer tomorrow, the inhabitants of our country's HNSU club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61570	Thank you very much. We also have two individual discussions. First respected representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, to tell you the truth is that by confirming this agreement by law and by fighting illegal trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, organised crime and international terrorism, they become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The main factor in preventing and effectively combating organised crime is international co-operation. The agreement also represents a further improvement in mutual cooperation between Croatia and Malta and also contributes to the development and consolidation of current friendly relations. The agreement is also based on the belief of both the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Malta that international co-operation is necessary for the effective prevention and prevention of illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances and for the fight against organised crime. Furthermore, the awareness that illegal drug trafficking, their production and expansion poses a serious threat to the proper social and economic development of the psychological and physical well-being of citizens and citizens. It is also justified in the awareness that criminal organisations are increasingly involved in illegal trade at international level. So far, 5 bilateral international contracts have been concluded which are of interest both to Croatia and Malta. This Agreement will realise the provision of mutual assistance and improve efficiency as will bring action into line in the fight against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, and the same objective is also in the fight against organised crime and international terrorism. The mutual cooperation between Croatia and Malta involves helping each other to monitor persons involved in organised crime, agreeing on the most appropriate communication routes, exchange of useful information and cooperation in the field of witness protection. The agreement also formally expresses the willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, and changes and additions to the text of the contract cannot be made at this stage. I will therefore support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61572	Thank you very much. And another debate between the individual respected representative of Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61573	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Law establishing the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Malta on the fight against illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, organised crime and international terrorism is the result of a common desire to promote and deepen mutual cooperation in the fight against illicit drug trafficking, psychotropic substances, organised crime and international terrorism. It is international co-operation that is the most important factor in preventing and combating organised crime, so this Agreement is also an element of further improvement, mutual cooperation between the two countries and contribution, the continuation of consolidation and the development of friendly relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Malta. The aim of mutual cooperation which will be realised on the basis of this Agreement is to provide mutual assistance, and to improve the effectiveness and coordination of action in the fight against illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances and the need for such cooperation to be part of the institutional and permanent activities of all the competent services of the two countries in particular the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs of Malta, and therefore there is a need to act in this area of the offices... an international contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The agreement of our Government and the Government of Malta in the fight against illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, organised crime and international terrorism establishes a legal framework for the mutual cooperation of the two countries in the fight against crime, which specifically implies providing mutual assistance in the surveillance of persons involved in organised crime, the exchange of all useful information, the establishment of the most appropriate means of communication, and mutual cooperation in the field of witness protection. Although the law itself belongs to a group of laws which the Republic of Croatia regulates cooperation and relations with a number of states to prevent corruption and organised crime and international terrorism, I believe it is justified to adopt the same law by an urgent procedure because it is very current and necessary. For all this, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61574	Thank you very much. Here's the conclusion of the debate. And we'll vote on these wheels when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61575	Thirdly, the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Malta on the fight against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, organised crime and international terrorism was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 611, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Malta on the fight against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, organised crime and international terrorism. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 99 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61576	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the law on the amendment and addition of the Energy Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 616. The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. So the first and second readings were united. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received their reports at the session, and the amendments were submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Mrs Natasa Vujec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61577	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act before you is adopted because of the need to allow the representative body of the unit of local self-government, rather than the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bring the amount of individual tariff items in tariff systems for thermal energy, i.e. simpler for the price of heat energy. This ensures that prices continue to be controlled by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, and the decision is made by the representative body of the unit of local self-government, since today's situation requires prices to be corrected in very short periods of time. The legal solution so far is that the tariff items for thermal energy are determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Such a solution was possible under the conditions of stable fuel prices for heat, but not now when prices change at least every three months. Furthermore, the heating system exists only in certain cities of the Republic of Croatia, and no larger areas are expected to be covered in the future. Speeded price changes and relatively small coverage of the Croatian thermal industry are practically estimated to be a maximum of 250000 users throughout Croatia benefiting from heat services is considered sufficient to allow prices to be determined by the representative body of local self-government, but only on the basis of a proposal from an energy operator operating in the area. Such a solution is considered correct, more so because the price of thermal energy is not identical to all consumers in the Republic of Croatia, but depends on the energy entity itself, on their business in certain cities and energy used to produce heat. It should also be pointed out that according to the Law on the Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy, it is the obligation of the representative body of the local self-government to take care of the activity of the distribution of heat energy, as well as the award of energy concessions in their jurisdiction. At the end of this address, I would like to emphasise the very procedure of changing the height of the tariff items. On a proposal to change the amount of tariff items submitted by the energy entity, the representative body of the units of local self-government is obliged to obtain the opinion of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. In this case, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency has the role of an expert body, which must analyse the price and give its opinion to the representative body of the local self-government unit. Following the opinion of HERA, the representative body shall take a decision on the amount of individual tariff items and shall deliver it to energy entities and HERAs. Since this change is intended to enable the representative body of the units of local self-government, not the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bring the amounts of certain tariff items in the tariff system for thermal energy, we propose an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 159(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61578	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. We're going clubbing. First is the SDP club, the respected representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61579	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This law is another in a series of expensive and unnecessary experiments that will cause organised chaos in Croatia in the coming period. And my recommendation before you is to withdraw that law in the best faith for these citizens at all. Not to you personally, as representatives of the ministry. I know you can't do that. So we've got a few indications, I'll just refer to one of the, on several strings and aspects of the issue of amending and supplementing such a law that I would say by experimenting, over my knees, unorganized, without being aware of what he will choose, and with no explanation, or without any reasonable explanation that might, as otherwise, be drawn up as an explanation, have afterwards the reasons for harmonising with European legislation, i.e. with chapters which, like Croatia, a country which has access to the European Union, we must close. Problem one, the strategy proposed by this government, I mean strategy, the energy strategy aims to connect the system, connect the system I repeat, and this amendment and the Energy Act makes it difficult. We have a situation that each unit of local self-government will for itself, determine how the concession is awarded, and according to the strategy should join and join into a centralised supply system, that each unit of local self-government will now have the opportunity to determine the height of individual items, can come and come up with different proposals, making it difficult to connect envisaged by the strategy. So here's the first reason this isn't even coordinated with the strategy. Problem two, price regulation. The price of thermal energy has so far been determined in consultations with local community headship, according to the '95 Law on the municipal economy. the year, and the price and method of payment was determined by the service provider, i.e. HEP. Now that is the opinion that the Association of Cities warns about, as well as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. By setting tariff items in units of local self-government, there is a problem with the competence of people who would make decisions on the height of tariff items, and a question arises which criteria should be followed. Economically, whether it's the price of investment, quality, or non-economic. So social policy, environmental protection policy, which is also within the domain of the strategy. And here you see, we have what the Croatian Chamber of Commerce warns about, which is that at this point we should not go to changes to the Energy Act in terms of the transfer of competence, because units of local self-government do not have professional capacities to address this complex problem. So these amendments and additions to the law are not only contrary to the strategy, they are also contrary to the opinion of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, i.e. the economy. So we're fighting with this law with the economy. The third reason is the opinion on the level of tariff items brought by the Agency. But what are the sanctions if the local self-government unit doesn't adhere to the opinions of the agency. There are no legal sanctions for those who made decisions, and they later proved to be bad. What if a heat producer proposes a market price that does not have to be liked by local self-government units, what if the price is too high in the opinion of local self-government units or too low? How will the agency determine their opinions? So there's a question of a reasonable proposal at all, will the agencies be able to impose or determine an opinion at all? And what are the criteria? On what basis will he decide that something is justified or unwarranted? The fourth thing why this law is essentially in conflict with that mechanism that is only explained here, and it is about speeding up the adoption and making the price process easier, in a short time period, is that you were suggested by the City Association itself. So you have a situation where representative bodies meet once every three months, in most representative bodies, and that prices should be priced, and that 30 days from asking for an opinion should form a price, which is insane. So you're asking for an opinion in a month, and the representative bodies meet once every three months. So the fourth reason is this law is also in conflict with what the Association of Cities thinks, i.e. the unit of local self-government that this decision includes, but not only that, but it is by what was the obligation of our country as signatories of the Treaty of the European Charter of Local Self-Government to consult with the units of local self-government. And that's why this proposal, and by this criterion, is actually unwarranted. Problem five, opening the market and corruption. Now in Charter 5, point 4, in the process of cogeneration of the process for the production of two useful energy forms of thermal energy and useful work commonly used in hospitals, hotels, sports centres and in the area of heating, etc., by determining the heights of the items by the unit of local self-government, thus affecting the final price of heat and its cost-effectiveness, the possibility of corruption and savagery on the market will therefore be opened, which will eventually affect citizens. Because if certain items increase above the necessary directly, cogeneration production is encouraged because the cost-effectiveness time will be shorter and the profit will be higher. The price for the end-user is increasing and the customer of the citizen remains damaged. Each unit of local self-government shall decide on the heights of individual items and be disproportionate on the market, such as The water case, there's a price of 3 kuna, somewhere there's a price of 16 kuna. Therefore, the first reason is that this law does not have one valid explanation. The second reason is that this law is contrary to the strategy that we brought here ourselves. The third reason is inefficiencies in the pricing of what the association of citizens warns about. The fourth reason is the insatiability of local self-government units, which is being warned by the HGK. The fifth reason is that the law is not acceptable to the Croatian economy and the HGK at all. The sixth reason is that it can only slow the process because it does not comply with the units of local self-government and the seventh reason is the possibility of cogeneration, i.e. the opening of possible pressure on the price by citizens in the market due to the process envisaged by this strategy. So, after 7 reasons that are contrary, so I would say almost everything you actually have to consult in this country before you pass the law I suggest you on behalf of the mind to withdraw this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61580	Thank you very much. It is next to the HSS club, the respected representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61581	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Madam Secretary of State with an associate. Not long ago, some meteorologists feared us with a record cold even during the Siberian winter to confirm that we were misjudged. But although warmer winter means less energy consumption, of course, if we behave rationally, it does not mean that today when many Croatian citizens face a crisis, its price is not a question of great interest. We know that prices of thermal energy have so far been treated as a social category and their adoption was within the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, given the adaptation to the requirements arising from the desire to join the EU, the opening of the market in this area is also required. Thus, the adoption of the first energy law package, which regulates the implementation of certain energy activities, began the reform of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia. This established a legislative framework for the restructuring and reorganisation of the energy sector, the opening of the gas market and the regulation of energy activities, and the reform also covered the restructuring of energy entities, as well as the establishment of market rules, public service obligations and the separation of energy activities to market and regulatory ones. Further adaptation of Croatia's energy legislation to European legislation was followed by the adoption of a second energy law package, and to date, in line with the growing opening of the energy market in the Republic of Croatia, some of the laws adopted have been amended and updated to create assumptions that market energy activities are going smoothly on the basis of market rules, and those carried out as public services to be carried out in accordance with the prescribed conditions and rules. These amendments and additions to the Energy Act will allow, instead of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the amount of individual tariff items in the tariff systems for heat energy, i.e. the price of heat, to be adopted by the representative body of the unit of local self-government. Prices will continue to be controlled by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency while the decision will be taken by the representative body of the local self-government unit. The reason for this change is that today prices are adjusted over short periods of time, so the prices of natural gas fuel for heat change every 3 months. In addition, the heating system has not been developed in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, so it exists only in certain cities and municipalities and is estimated to be used by up to 250 thousand users. Without a price change with this number of users and differences in heat prices that do not cost the same to all consumers, they depend on energy operators and their business in cities in which they operate are a good reason for the representative body of the unit of local self-government to determine prices with the exception for privileged customers. Such a solution not only imposes an existing market situation but we are of the opinion that it could encourage units of local self-government to pay more attention to their roles in ensuring adequate supply of energy to the population throughout their area. This is important primarily because the use of renewable energy can certainly help meet the needs of the population and the economy and not only for electricity but also for thermal energy. Namely, biogas or biomass energys using locally available energy such as forest biomass or agricultural residues are also a solution to waste management, and we know that as signatories of the Kyoto Protocol, it is also required to participate in global efforts to mitigate climate change. Biomass energy brings the most socioeconomic benefits to the local community because it creates a constant demand for raw materials. This also creates new economic activity in the local community in whose area or proximity there is an energy facility on biomass, which means new employment. The gas was one of the forms of biomass energy which simultaneously measures to protect soil, ground and groundwater and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In accordance with the principles of organic farming, the local community can find interests in building a biogas plant because of the benefits of energy, the excess nitrate is taken care of, environmentally acceptable fertilisers are produced, greenhouse gases are reduced and unpleasant smells are produced. Local energy production is therefore important for us in the HSS club, as this can increase the security of energy availability, a more favourable environment can be created, but this certainly contributes to ecological agriculture and the development of eco tourism because there are no large and unwanted energy facilities in the area. We at the HSS Club in the production of local energy see good opportunities for rural and regional development, for higher employment, for the development of domestic industry, for the development of technology, for the preservation of energy security, for the production of electricity and heat at the site of fuel consumption in our own backyard. Instead of a thousand chimneys with uncontrollable emissions, the HSS advocates a chimney with controlled emissions, and such a concept that leads to energy independence other than the state can contribute significantly to municipalities and cities and we believe that this law is an incentive to do so and we will support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61582	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague said that we had recently been intimidated by certain meteorologists in a very harsh or polar winter, and now we see that this is not the case. That's an incorrect quote, because we're in the field of statistical assumptions about what winter will be and say that today October 20th that winter will be mild, or that it won't be very sharp, that's incorrect. Just as it may be incorrect that it will be very sharp. So, in that segment. Yeah, we'll listen together if we have to, but you said. Today we'll see that it's not like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61584	Thank you very much. Now we have corrections and meteorological allegations. We're going with the next club, it's the HDZ club. On behalf of the club, respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61585	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. So here's a brief review of the bill. It is more than obvious that we can talk about one of these same laws in different ways, which is completely understandable depending on the interest, depending on understanding, political preferences, priorities etc. Nothing unusual and it is part of the usual parliamentary debates. The fundamental question that imposes is what is the best way of combining all those elements involved in forming a final decision, the ultimate price, who needs to take responsibility, where there is a responsibility, how to really verify that structured costs are objective, that they are minimised to a maximum extent, but this certainly depends not only on primary energy sources depending on the quality of the infrastructure and the whole series of reasons. What has been said intriguingly here in the debates so far is a matter of competence. I think it's very interesting and deserves a brief review especially for not correcting, but in any case it deserves a comment on what to do if we don't have local competences if we don't have competences in representative bodies. Can we accept such a model of delegation or taking responsibility? I think it's common interest that competences spread that we have as many competent people at especially local levels. And I think that in this sense this law is acceptable and that it is good, because it forces the representative bodies to understand much more quality, quality cost structure and that ultimately in this system and the way decision-making is not solely responsibility, because in consultations with HERA I would say possible failures due to understandable lack of knowledge but knowledge is something that is created and takes time. And I think this law is in that sense good is the representative bodies of local units put in a far more difficult position than they've been before. Otherwise far greater responsibility, far greater risk and I think that cooperation in that chain between HERA representative bodies and normally whoever the entrepreneur is will allow to make a decision at a specific place that will be acceptable. So I think this bill is acceptable and therefore the HDZ Club will support its adoption. What it says in the materials that have been delivered and can briefly repeat what is already said. The adoption of this amendment and the addition of the Energy Act allows the representative body of the unit of local self-government, not the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to bring the amount of certain tariff items in the tariff systems for thermal energy. Responsibility, risk, uncertainty. It will be normal for certain failures and mistakes to happen, but I would say that is part of the process within which knowledge and responsibility for managing energy resources will be improved. In this way, it is ensured that prices are still controlled by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, which can help representative bodies make a final decision with their expertise. The current legal solution that tariff items for heat were determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was possible at a time when fuel price change dynamics were much slower. However, these rapid oscillations and changes so-called spot prices require these regulations, these coordinations work at shorter time intervals. It also states in its explanation that the heating system exists only in certain cities of the Republic of Croatia and for the time being, and will not cover a larger area in the future, but is very limited in its geographical scope. Rapid price changes and relatively small heat coverage in the Republic of Croatia are estimated to be up to 250 thousand users throughout Croatia, considered sufficient reason to allow prices to be determined by the representative body of the unit of local self-government. Such a solution is considered correct, more so because heat prices are not identical for consumers in the Republic of Croatia but depend on energy operators, their business and a whole range of other technical aspects, infrastructure quality, technical losses, business rationality, overhead and many other reasons. After all, we believe that it is not necessary, as in the case of electricity and natural gas, that prices are determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think it's necessary to owe, the HDZ Club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61586	Thank you very much. And another club of HNS-HSU, on behalf of the club, respected representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. Immediately at the beginning, the Croatian People's Party club will support this proposal, but provided that the motioner respects the amendments it has submitted to the text of the draft law of the Association of Cities, which have been translated into the amendment of Mrsic. In fact, the fact is that this law is trying to introduce order and I can freely say that the price increase or possible increase in prices or heat energy was a direct cause that we have already discussed in this Croatian Parliament, the direct cause of the replacement of the President of the Governing Council of HERA, and the man was just doing his job. This proposal for a law unless an amendment, opinion and observations of the Association of Cities of Cities in which the centralized supply of thermal energy is ensured are the second next victim. I simply don't understand that one such bill comes into Parliament's procedure with nothing caused, literally nothing caused. It is a relatively small number of cities, it is a relatively small number of users. I will say in the end what was challenged in the opinion of us from the Croatian People's Party club and the Croatian Party of Retirement. But before that, the law itself. Ms. Secretary of State explained because the text of the law did not simply understand the course and procedure, but the State Secretary explained how and how this procedure was going. The fact is that they're representative bodies, so we're starting to decentralisation which is good, but not quite as safe as this. The representative body was given the opportunity to determine the level of heat price in its area at the request of the distributor, with the prior consent of the Croatian Regulatory Agency. That's not even bad. But I ask you, how will this story work? First, it is already known that representative bodies do not meet once a month, meet normally three months. Secondly, I ask you how it will work in units of local self-government where there is a cohabitation between the city and the municipal council or the mayor. How it works. Namely, why am I asking that question? In the event that by decision of the representative body, the distributor suffers damage, he shall have the right to claim compensation for damages, and the Executive Body, Chief or Mayor as the responsible person in the local self-government unit shall be responsible for that damage. Therefore, the representative body can very easily, I believe it will not come to this, but it can very easily play and create a problem for its mayor and mayor. The opinion of the Association of Cities and municipalities, among other things, and in accordance with the Law on the Communist Economy, where the consent to the height of the service is given by the Executive Body, the opinion of cities and municipalities is that it would be more logical, more acceptable for a whole series of reasons, and we do not see why and why not the Association of Cities and municipalities is proposing and it is contained in the amendment of fellow Mršić, to be an executive body. The second thing and another dilemma that can be resolved very elegantly by accepting the amendment of Mršić to the association of municipalities and cities, which is that the 30-day period starts from the moment the HERA delivers its report. Because there is no obligation in this bill anywhere in which the HERA time has to submit its report. It only writes that within 30 days, the representative body must make a decision. I don't see any reason why this system can't be arranged, I don't see any reason why this system can't be set up in one functional way, a viable way. Go on. Local self-government has been given the opportunity to determine height or better the price of thermal energy. Whether local self-government has the potential to affect the rationality of the business of the distributor, whether local self-government has an impact on the energy price at the end. So it's got the possibility of a formal nature to decide on something that has virtually no influence except to accept or accept or play through that version of cohabitation, to play with the price of heat energy. And that is why we think it would be necessary to accept the proposals of the Association of Municipalities and Cities, and it would be logical to accept that. One more fact. Decentralization in our way. This bill lays down the power to units of local self-government, and the opinion of the Association of Cities or the Association of Municipalities was not requested when drawing up this bill. Otherwise, completely contrary to what this has obviously become a rule of conduct, completely contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, without mentioning the code of consultation with the interested public in the procedures of law-making and other regulations of the act at all. It's something imaginary otherwise in practice the functioning of our government. And finally. Since almost 90% or rather, to the greatest extent, the primary energy is gas in the production of heat. With this proposal for a law just before the inevitable, significant collection of gas, simply the Government of the Republic of Croatia transfers responsibility to municipalities and cities, one cowardly egg packed in a form of harmonisation with European practice, harmonisation of energy laws and not reading all the explanations they write. That's the truth. Future heat collection towards cities and municipalities is being submitted. Why would it come to that? Very simple, very familiar. Until 15 days ago, a state secret called the main gas business contract was something, one article as a result of one professionally responsible negotiation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with MOL, another one of our largest shareholders. The first largest shareholder of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the second largest shareholder, INA's first largest shareholder. Something that was highly skilled and wisely negotiated both by former Prime Minister Sanader and former Deputy Prime Minister Polancec and current Deputy Prime Minister Schuker as chairman of the INA Supervisory Board. Something that the current Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, has tried to ease by adding the contract, something that is soon coming to us at the end of the year, which is soon directly entering all citizens of the Republic of Croatia through a significantly higher price of gas and something where the state is trying to get away at the moment. The fact that we have been looking for and that it has been requested on several occasions for various instances to take down the code of secrecy from the Gas Business Treaty and that this has only been done recently confirms all those thoughts primarily of the professional public and the fear of citizens who are completely justified, something with which the citizens of this country lose total energy independence when we talk about gas. To enable Hungarians, in particular MOL or INAs as majority owner, not majority but the first largest shareholder but by skillful negotiation on the changes in the shareholder contract, it is practically the MOL that is given the opportunity to treat the minority value of the shareholder package as a majority. Among other things, it has been donated that all domestic gas is purchased for the next 15 years at the price of imported gas, the ex-border border of the Republic of Croatia. We all know that. It's familiar. A beautiful gift wrapped in a cellophane with a beautiful bow. Gifted why and for what? We're hoping to get that answer from the state institution, hopefully we'll get it. But the fact is that we've come into a position as a state that in a significant amount we have to pay our domestic ore treasure. As a result, there will soon be an increase in gas prices, there will be an increase in heat and to prevent possible negativity, we will open the area for an alibi story. Let's get it to the municipalities and cities and that's the essence of this bill. And that is why I repeat again on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired that we will support this bill if the Proposer fully accepts the objections to this text of the laws given by the associations of cities and municipalities, especially in the section relating to the start of the application of this law, which is 1.1.2011. A zero rate from which we can move to a serious and responsible decentralisation, and not in this way misleading municipalities and towns of the cowardly egg called an increase in the price of heat energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61588	Thank you very much. Now there's another individual debate going on. I think four applications that we have. First respected representative Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61589	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is, this law is another indicative example of how the government works and ignores the public, the interested public, the expert public in this case and associations of cities that have not been consulted on this law and this cowardly egg given to them on a gift. So they are pleased to make a decision on the price of energy, after it is determined by HERA. It seems that our energy system in the Republic of Croatia is condemned to some secrecy, to scandals, to the extradition of our mine treasure, gas, oil into foreign hands, in a way that we can no longer manage the treasure. Let us also remember the history of these scandals, related to the liberalisation of the energy market, because it says here as an explanation of the reasons for the law being passed by an emergency procedure, the dynamics of market liberalisation and its opening are needed. And also somewhere in the late 1990s, under the cover of liberalisation, various lobbyists of Zdenka Gast, Rifkin, were getting hundreds of thousands of dollars to hand over the Republic of Croatia to ENORN, and then the coalition government of Prime Minister Racan had the task of decomposing those contracts so that ENERN would not be together with tens of thousands of its employees and shareholders to failure, and the whole of Croatia. And for all that satisfaction, there we have to pay these famous lobbyists. Then there was the privatisation of the INA, the extradition of the decision-making rights in an interesting miraculous way that is not exactly in the democratic world of the competition and famous happened. We've lost management rights. Gas business here, we'll buy our own gas at more expensive prices, we'll probably deliver it to INA and Petrochemy at subsidized affordable prices. And who pays for it? All of this is paid by taxpayers through the expensive energy price and the total taxes of the tax which are among the highest in the world. So under the cover of liberalisation to local self-government, this law gives something to which HERA is responsible. She is a regulator, energy is a monopoly, still, let her then choose to do her job, not to have these unpopular measures that will necessarily have to occur, especially in the light of the gas business being brought down to local self-government, and to the local self-government to fall all of the blanket and rage of the general public because of the more expensive energy. And they didn't eat onion, they didn't want onion, they didn't want this law, they wanted negotiations, but unfortunately it wasn't, at least not according to our available data and to what extent it would be appropriate. So the government is constantly bringing in an emergency procedure and putting in the process of the laws without the profession and stakeholders consulting, in laws there is mostly no assessment of the situation, I am now refering to this package of Stabilisation Laws where we are removing from various agencies, institutes, organizations, attaching them there and where they belong and where they do not belong, all under cover of some kind of savings. What will be the savings, because of this law I do not know, it is not known, it is explained by the liberalisation of the market, but other than the obligation of Croatia to join the European Union, the question is that the liberalisation of the market in this particular case brings, except that instead of one we pay two, three payments, now more people do not even know because one HEP distribution, the other is HEP supply, etc., so the citizens here have the pleasure to pay two, three postage companies more instead of one post office, and they are reducing their budgets even more. So I want to say that the Government should present more systematically to us MPs the reasons for the adoption of certain laws, those laws that are not really urgent to let go in two readings, and not only to pass the laws under an urgent procedure, which are generally in force, this is not the case with this law, but mostly those laws which, in relation to the adjustment of the system with the European acquis, are starting to apply with a delay, or the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, and that day will probably be the day of collapse for the Croatian economy, because a huge amount of the law will be in mutual cohesion or simply inexecutible because a certain adjustment has not been made or the introduction of stakeholders about their advantages, weaknesses, obligations, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61590	Thank you very much. Next in line is Honorable Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61591	Thank you, Vice President. Here's what I'm going to do, just like the other colleagues who talked about this law, and they come from the SDP club, and I'm going to say that I'm not going to support this bill because I think this law is nothing more than an expression of the cowardice and inability of the government of the Republic of Croatia to deal responsibly with the challenges that the economic crisis brings before each government. Namely, this law is nothing more than the government's wish to share its responsibility for difficult decisions or transfer them to local self-government. Since Croatia has only about 250 thousand users, which was said several times during the debate, the user of the thermal service, this law is nothing more than a transfer of its own responsibility to raise prices to the City of Zagreb in the first order, i.e. to the Zagreb City Assembly in order not to direct the anger of the citizens and citizens of Zagreb towards the Assembly, rather than to the Government. Instead of the government dealing with such pranks as it deals with, the government should implement real decentralisation measures, primarily in terms of financing the decentralisation of the state. In an energy sense, your tendency and commitment to decentralisation, which we have the opportunity to listen to every little bit from the mouth of government officials and officials, could also be demonstrated through an energy strategy mentioned by counterpart Davor Bernardic, but of course it was not the case. How do I think that? I think in a way that, instead of commitment to mega-energy projects that have marked the entire energy strategy, the Government could have defined more to implement energy efficiency and renewable energy measures, which, of course, means a completely different case than that which, in terms of centralisation of the energy system itself, which is a characteristic of mega-energy projects such as nuclear and large thermal power plants, which is the case with the energy strategy that we had the opportunity to discuss and adopt in the Parliament more than a year ago. Except for the lack of decentralisation, not only through financial decentralisation but also through energy decentralisation, there were words here and about this law being rather sloppyly prepared, so I would like to say that a certain degree of disrespect to MPs and MPs in the Assembly, the very text of a law that is not even lecturingly arranged, so I would read a rather unsuspecting sentence from this bill, or in the opening statement, and I would now read this: "The further system of warmth exists only in certain cities of the Republic and so far, and it will not cover any more areas than a small coverage of heat in the Republic, only, excuse me, covers larger areas than,... Yes, it's very limited in its geographical scope. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me if anyone can explain to me what this sentence means. I suppose what it's supposed to mean, but I think it's really inadmissible to send these sentences to Parliament in some kind of legal proposal. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61592	Thank you very much. It's the honorary representative of Tonino Picula, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Well, I think it is necessary to provide some information and indicators in order to understand the motives of including this bill by emergency procedure. Some of it's been said by my colleagues before me. I would actually start with an official report by HEP on business for 2008 when the thermal activity in that year achieved a business loss of nearly 182 million kuna. Compared to a year earlier, the loss even increased by 80 million kuna due to a sharp rise in energy fuel prices. As the main reason for such a result, the government has not yet approved a request for an increase in the price of heat that has not been changed since 2004, although, in the meantime, fuel prices have increased significantly. In Croatia, a total of 13 permits for electricity activities and 29 permits for the activity of trade, intervention or representation on the energy market have been issued by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency until 31.12.2007. In Croatia, total energy consumption rose by 1.5% in 2007 compared to the consumption achieved in the previous year. As for renewable energy sources, although they have a high growth rate, their share was only 0.17% that year. The plan is to reduce the share of liquid fuels to 36% by 2030 and increase the share of these renewable sources to 6.7% and biomass to 5.5%. Viewed worldwide, the Croatian energy sector represents a very small part of the world's economy, a negligible 0.05% of production and 0.1% of the world's energy consumption. It should be stressed that total energy consumption is only between 55% and 60% of energy is available to direct consumption i.e. end-users while the rest is waste on losses in transformations, driving consumption and transport and distribution losses. Croatia experienced a decrease in energy consumption in the early 1990s due to war circumstances, but total energy consumption has been growing since 1995. Of course, such a trend is expected in the future. Interesting forecasts refer to the dependence of the Croatian economy on increasing energy prices on the world market. In general, the application of different models concludes that 10% of energy prices would cause our GDP to fall between 1.5% and 2.5%. There is a high correlation coefficient between energy and the development of a country, the relative level of energy consumption actually reflects the level of its overall development. The trend of development in the world is for countries to meet their energy consumption from economically and environmentally acceptable conditions. As a result, there is a tendency to reduce energy consumption per unit of production in the world, i.e. The growth of total consumption is slower than the growth of total energy production. Although, of course, the most developed countries save the most per unit of production, they are because of the volume of their own economies and the largest energy consumers. 10 main consumers participate with around 64% of global energy consumption. Here, of course, is the front of the United States who are otherwise not a country signatories of Kyoto Protocol with 25% share in global consumption, followed by China with 8 etc. A very important issue from complex production, supply and distribution of thermal energy to meet both representatives in local communities and issues that should certainly be taken into account is related to the concession. Who will invest in network facilities and network systems? Will local self-government do this, or is it a concessionaire with whom local self-government must make a contract? If the law does not determine that the concessionary is obliged to invest in energy plants and network systems, no concessionaire in the future will do so, and the local self-government will, of course, not have any money in Croatia, so that maintenance of modernisation will fall on the burden of citizens through the tax press, and the concessionary will use the facilities and the network for years to earn more money. The fee and anyone involved in the affairs of local self-government, the fee paid by the concessionaire to local self-government is symbolic and with this amount there is nothing she can do about cheaper delivery of heat energy. And here we come to the text of this bill. Any legal underline of the role of local self-government in the determination of the amount of tariff items should be welcomed with caution. This debate today is certainly an opportunity to talk about the link between the business policy of public enterprises and the will of the country's ruling policy, a policy that has a crucial impact on the behaviour of public enterprises and the proposed change of the Energy Act does not exclude political volunteerism and the system of determining the price of thermal energy. We may be better informed about the symbiosis of the government and public enterprises by reading court files from the ongoing processes of the accused former vice-presidents of the government and members of the administration of public enterprises than by reading the arguments of the legal proposals sent to us by the Government. In particular, the criticism directed by colleague Holly to the quality of these arguments should be considered. But it is good to see how it stands in this proposal that the adoption of this amendment and the addition of the Energy Act is significant because of the need to allow a representative body or units of local self-government and not the Government to bring the amount of certain tariff items in the heat-energy tariff systems. It is true that the heating system exists only in individual cities of the Republic of Croatia, and so far it will not be able to cover larger areas with this system. All of this could be recognised as a form of decentralisation of our highly-centralised system and respect for the principle of subsidiarity that we did not experience in Croatia that the pricing of energy is a form and a political racket. I therefore agree with the assessment that the responsibility for the collection of heating for 250,000 households and business spaces in Croatia has been decided by the government to transfer to local authorities. In the future, it will be up to the city councils, not the government, to determine how much it will cost to heat in heating apartments over joint heat. In any case, it almost fits into a saying that "You shouldn't trust the Danes when they're wearing these gifts." I would take advantage of the opportunity for what I said to back up a case in which only political reasons led to the manipulation of the height of heating in Velika Gorica before the 2009 local elections when the government didn't want to hear about the impact on citizens' standards. Also ahead of next year's parliamentary elections, the government is pushing its responsibility for the imminent and unpopular heat-gathering process by transferring the problem to local self-government. Which is if it is not the political racket of the government's decision of 19.12.2008 to increase the price of heat delivery by a nominal 48% in reality from 100 to 120%, which naturally crossed the limits of economic endurance. All attempts to communicate with the leading people of the HEP concessionaires Heat monitoring commission, I would really like to know if this commission still exists, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not produced any results. Despite the 2005 concessionaires' positive reaction when he agreed to hold the two-stage assembly at that time, the same proposal was now rejected at the time of the galloping of the financial crisis. Simply a concessionary was under pressure from an individual from the government because the local elections were too close and his political interest was clear. Local self-government leaders were to be accused of heating up and promised that with the change of government in local elections everything would be resolved, so the heating bills would be returned to normal. Of course that didn't happen, but the project of pressure through HEP's public firm Heat has played its part. I would like to ask the question, will the new local government in Velika take advantage of the solution of this amended Energy Act and influence the reduction of the heating tariff item and make it so much easier to impose a burden on citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61594	Thank you very much. We have one correction of the incorrect allegations, first of all the correction, the respected representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's Mr. Picula's actually saying what it is than a political racket at the moment he's talking about how the government actually transferred the burden of responsibility to local self-government units. Mr. Picula, you know as well as we all know, and I was also in a political let's call it a sports dictionary, and when we know and we can remember very well that it is already the beginning of the economic crisis and when all units of local self-government were obliged to take measures to protect their citizens in order not to hit their pockets. Also, I must now say that this is indeed an incorrect quote, because it was the beginning of a crisis and we all had to put ourselves in the same car. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61596	Thank you very much. The first replica of the esteemed representative Mario Hebek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61597	Dear counterpart Picula, this law once again shows the inability of this government or perhaps even shows the ability this government has or how to transfer responsibility to local self-government. By defining this law, the introduction is in determining the price of heat energy, or in other words, we can say the introduction to an increase in these prices. It is a long-standing strategy of this government that has skillfully shown how to transfer guilt to local or regional self-government. We've had several cases like this before, this is one of them. We can also think of the contribution imposed on local self-government to kill him, so it turns out that the local administration is the one who raises those prices. This is the decentralisation this government has been talking about for many years, but it does not need to be afraid that this government will decentralise accidentally which funding in local self-government, but when it comes to such new imposings or price increases there are very skilled ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61598	Thank you very much. The reply to the reply is the esteemed representative of Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61599	Of course, nothing in particular needs to be complemented by what counterpart Habek said who has very precisely located the problem that is broader than what we are now discussing. But of course, counterpart Klaric could use the replica so that I could respond directly to this attempt in some way to warn her that I did not react as mayor in time. Fellows of the former mayor of Sibenik, you know for determining the price of thermal energy delivery is exclusively the competent government of the Republic of Croatia and HERA. City heads had nothing to do with the ability to lower the price. Also, when you ask me what I did, I did, I reacted, thank you for asking, I separated a million and 400 thousand kuna in the name of reducing municipal services because as mayor I was able to influence and it made it somewhat easier for this blow, which was naturally and staged by the government of the Republic of Croatia, which was implemented through public companies. Don't ask me yet who was at the head of HEP's public firm then and where he is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61600	Thank you very much. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61601	Dear colleague Picula, I think we all agree in the SDP on the true character of this bill, and in the end, we all talked in the same direction about it. I would also like to warn that instead of dealing with these jokes such as this law or by transferring responsibility to the local self-government for the difficult decisions it should make, unfortunately nothing does anything to secure the gas supply of the Republic of Croatia. And it is worth noting, of course, that the gas particularly in terms of heat supply is a key energy in the Republic of Croatia, so in this sense I would like to remind myself that nothing has been done about the new gas storage facility being discussed in the Energy Strategy, that the LNG project on the island of Krk terminal for LNG has definitely failed and that the government is now thinking about providing alternative gas supply through Plinacro with the help of the vessels of the swimmers, which is a proposal which the SDP club already made two years ago, meaning at the time of the worst gas crisis proposed to the Republic of Croatia, so in this sense I wrote and wrote a representative question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to which the government responded, and now we see that after two years of reflection, it has suddenly become interesting and current. It sees and speaks about the government's responsibility in terms of energy supply, key energy in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61602	Thank you very much. And yet last reported for the hearing, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unlike my colleagues, I will not say that this government has no idea and that this government is incompetent. According to this brief spell that we have received, which shows, you have well noticed that it is written with the left hand, it is shown that this government is capable, but that the cowardly government is and that its laziness and inaction is trying to transfer by one law like this large decisions that will be made, which will be felt by citizens, these 250 thousand that are heating up, which they will feel. So there's no courage to go out in front of those citizens and tell people, that's it, it's a crisis and prices are what they are. And in order for that cowardice to be camouflaged, they either brought in or suggested that we pass the law by emergency procedure. Okay, but emergency procedures say the laws passed under the emergency procedure are a reason to remove major economic disturbances due to existing legislation in force. Maybe I didn't read any daily press or other media because I didn't notice that there was a disturbance in the economy because of existing legislation. Perhaps you've seen it somewhere or forgotten to announce that it's a disorder and then this law by emergency procedure comes to this assembly. I believe it is an emergency procedure because the temperature outside has dropped, and it is likely that there will be a heat collection that was needed so far because these prices are determined by HERA, so far it should be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But since times are hard and some future elections are likely, and as the Prime Minister has promised that there will be no gas collection, there will be no such events by the end of this year, it is obvious that now, under the company or the form of decentralisation, we return that hot potato or ball, now you down, receive all the anger of the citizens on your shoulders, and we will determine what price it will be. Not that it's perfidious, not that it's cowardly, but that it's transparent that it can't be more transparent. And then you invulnerate it into an emergency procedure because that's why local self-government units should do it, because it's assumed that every three months there will be a change in the price of gas. And who has done this so far, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So I say it's lazy, because it's hard for them every three months in HERA with 42 employees to care and calculate what that price of gas should be. I think it's extremely perfiduous in this way to still talk about decentralisation. Now here you are, so you can figure out how much the heating price will be in your local self-government units. Of course, this inaction and ignorance is a feature of the entire energy policy in Croatia based on some mega-projects of atomic energy, and because of the non-use of domestic gas in the way we proposed and how we said it should be done obviously there is nothing of it. It doesn't take much for a law like this, sorry God of paper. You should come here and say no paper, no emergency procedure. We return to local self-government units to confirm the price someone else will set and receive news from citizens on their shoulders. But you said it nicely that now there should be a minister of the economy who also has no courage to come to the assembly and say that, that's how it's going to be, and I'm behind it. Well, you see, such a government that seems to be good to its citizens, which makes it so that it leaves that kindness to someone else to take on their shoulders I think that such a government really shows cowardice and indeed to such a government in these difficult times that the government has claimed is willing to make difficult decisions, to make painful cuts. Obviously, this law also shows that it is not ready for this, that there is always some sort of backup solution in its decentralization that is only D from decentralisation and a joke about what is called decentralisation. This is not to be done, because what local self-government does, as units of local self-government, which under the Law on Local Self-Government must be consulted when such laws are passed. And even their proposals don't show respect. And look at the wonders, ever since this law came into force. Not since 1.1, as the prime minister said, she will not collect anything until then, but will enter into force eight days after the announcement. So please, it's so transparent that I don't know what else to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61604	Thank you very much. The correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative, Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61605	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Denona has made a series of incorrect claims, especially when it comes to the government being cowardly, not knowing, not knowing, not knowing, and so others have their own. No, you said he didn't know and he won't, so in favor of that, let me show you this report on the implementation of the economic recovery plan in 10 months this year. Read it all together. As for local administrations and self-government, this is how little you go back to Zagreb where more than 800,000 citizens live, and you say that a hot chestnut is coming down to the local administration. Please be nice yesterday, Mr. Sprem said that with 36,000 gross incomes in their holdings, they reduced their salary by 10%. So is it a reduction compared to the city of Zagreb having the highest taxes, that the city of Zagreb pays the biggest municipal contributions, that the city of Zagreb simply has and other local administrations. So what are we talking about, Mr. Denona? What's this about? But SDP's government is doing it. Why don't you show a little sensitivity to people so don't put it down and lower it all down.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61606	Okay. Correction timed out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61607	Well, that's why you have to tell your folks they're acting like one.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61608	It's over with correcting an incorrect quote, it's over with a debate on this agenda point. And the closing statement will be given to Ms. Natasa Vujec, the State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61609	I thank the Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank all the representatives of this House, especially Mrs. Mirelli Holly, for commending and realizing that there are certain shifts, at least for this part we're talking about today. So she addressed them, and I see them as one kind of compliment to launch large projects, so however great they are for us, and maybe for some European proportions, it is one big risk, and on the other hand, it points to one particular courage for all those who are driving it. And that's why I feel like a compliment. All these projects can be said to have been spoken of for the past 10 years very, very intensely. It can also be said that there were no significant shifts, nor any conclusions that would allow, speed up the launch and implementation of these projects. Also, these last ten years we've been talking about one liberalisation of the market. The liberalisation of the market as well as all that is happening for the liberalisation of the primary energy market is a truly continuous process that even in the European Union countries did not happen overnight, but is still under way. Unfortunately, this is the course or fortunately for us because it means that we are close to entering the European Union and a constant change in the legal framework, and a large number of sublegal acts as well. As far as energy is concerned, I would like to conclude here that we are already in the European Union in that part of the legislation. By closing Chapter 15, we have simply accepted that we will bring our legislation in line with the acquis of the European Union within the deadlines and with the criteria that all the Member States of the European Union have. So I can say that the adoption of a third package is made as an obligation in the same way as the Member States of the European Union. The adoption of the third package and implementation into our energy legislation must take place by 3 March of next year. This means that by 3 March of next year you will have before you a table of 6 new laws representing a package of energy laws. It's a huge job, and it really needs to be done with extreme responsibility and with extreme concentration not to make big mistakes that will need to be corrected and solved in a way that is very similar to what we are here today. You said everything exactly in your statements that the prices of heat were practically determined and regulated by local communities by the Law on municipal activity. Today, we no longer have the Law on municipal activity because heat is an energy activity and as such an energy license and it is regulated and controlled by the Energy Regulatory Agency, but by this law we want to help these companies in some way, help the local community and help all of us in implementing the third package easier. The third package will bring all prices exclusively to HERA. Companies dealing with heat are small companies that are extremely sensitive to the price of energy that recently varies every three months. This variation in company price, if they do not have certain supplies or if they are burdened with over-numbered employees, or perhaps less adequate business, companies can very easily bring into bankruptcy. These companies are generally owned by the local community, here except HEP, so HEP is the only one not in the story, all others are mostly, and there are also in these companies, in certain companies and shares and foreign capital. These companies are again on the other hand and are controlled by the same side and the local community, and the practical concession for carrying out this activity is brought to them by the local community, i.e. the commission of the local self-government unit, and therefore we see no reason why this commission is a big problem, which means the price level. By setting the price level and with adequate supervision of these companies, it also enables citizens to have one desire to live in that part of the city, if these prices are not too high, or if they are more competitive than other cities. So in that part, I still want to say that these representative bodies can, as a rule, transfer their powers to the executive body. So if they want them to pass it on to the executive body, so the mayor makes such decisions, but it will be practically their will. The reason why a representative body is proposed is the reason, because then all representatives of that body can be informed of the request and may decide at their meeting on the price of heat energy. With that in mind, they are also controlling that opinion, and they are slightly becoming competent to judge all the consequences and all the reasons related to the regulation of the energy sector, so in that part I would really not like to comment that these commissions are not competent enough. If they are competent enough to decide on the award of concessions to a particular firm, then they may also be competent to determine how the concessionary leads the area. Furthermore, I would also like to say that, in fact, this law represents a certain period, a transitional period until the full implementation of the third package, so that it should not last long, and this short period will also allow the local community as the owner of those companies to improve their business if it so wishes. It is also necessary to stress that the reform of the energy sector cannot be practically implemented only by the government or by representatives of the government who are doing the part of the ministry's work. The reform of the energy sector must be on all of us as citizens, must be on all legal entities and must take one broader scale. If we experience it this way, it may be easier for us to endure all the changes it will bring us, and it will certainly bring us much more bureaucracy and much more work and effort to achieve all these objectives that we are set for by joining the European Union. Thank you. I'd be done with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61610	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this final bill. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61611	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Energy Act was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 616, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Ms Natasa Vujec, State Secretary, please make yourself known to Mr Mršić's amendment to Article 1. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61612	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Proposer does not accept the amendment with reasons. If prices are determined by the representative body, then all representatives of the representative body may decide at their meeting on the price of thermal energy that is significant to citizens in that local self-government unit, and for the most part because the representative body is responsible for awarding concessions to that company, monitors the business of the company, and most often the company is owned by the unit of local self-government. I also note that the representative body may transfer its powers to the executive body by decision. The deadlines and obligations of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency are set by another law. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency has for a number of years already data on all energy entities and on the possibility to respond to individual requirements of local administration units and self-government in the case of requirements only relating to the change in the variable fuel price cost. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61613	Thank you. Mr. Lobster. He's gone. We are voting on his amendment which the motionary does not accept. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 73 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 34 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61614	We now move to the 6th point of this consolidated agenda - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Sultan Oman on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 617 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When establishing the agenda, we accepted an emergency procedure, namely a united first and second reading. You can put up with the amendments until the end of the debate. The debate in this final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from the board at the session. Is there any further explanation from the motionor's representative? You don't have to. Do the representatives, or the committee's rapporteurs, want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm not on behalf of the board, because here I am also going to take this opportunity on behalf of the club to say that the Committee has unanimously supported the bill, and otherwise, from independence to today, the Republic of Croatia has signed 47 of these contracts to avoid double taxation. It is one of the technical laws which, one in a row, otherwise known that the Republic of Croatia has undertaken to apply all the international agreements it has inherited from the former state, and if not contrary to the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, an agreement has been reached with many countries that existing contracts will apply until new confirmation contracts enter into force, i.e. avoiding double taxation. And this signing of a contract between Sultans Oman and the Republic of Croatia on avoiding double taxation and preventing tax avoidance is only one in a series of steps aimed at improving economic co-operation with Sultan Oman. One of the most important concepts in this contract is the notion of a resident that allows the avoidance of double taxation of Croatian residents. In fact, Croatian construction companies do not have to pay a profit tax based on this contract if the execution of works in Sultanat Oman is no longer than 6 months. Also, taxation of profits from business is generally carried out by the state of residence of the company except in cases where permanent establishment exists, and that means when there are factories, offices, administrations in other countries. The contract also allows Croatian aircraft and maritime companies carrying out the transport of passengers and goods not to pay profit tax but exclusively to the Republic of Croatia. It is also regulated to tax dividends in the country of residence, i.e. in the country of real dividend user. The contract also provides for a mandatory exchange of information, which is a particularly effective means of countering and misusing tax avoidance. For this reason, the HDZ club supports the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61616	Here, thank you very much. We don't have any more charges to discuss. We don't even need a closing word. I'm concluding a debate on this point and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61617	He moved on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Sultan Oman on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax avoidance was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 617, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Sultans of Oman on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax avoidance. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 11 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61618	Final proposal of the Act confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany amending the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation (2002). YEAR), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 620 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We got the proposal in the mail. We have accepted the proposal from the proposer to discuss the final proposal in an urgent procedure. Amendments shall be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. We have a report from the board. That's where we received them at the session. Is there anything further that the proposaler wants to explain? It's not necessary. The committee's reporters? I don't either. I'm opening a debate. For the debate first on behalf of the HDZ club, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So just a few notes regarding this bill solely because of the importance of economic cooperation with the Republic of Germany and the scope of mutual trade. Also due to the importance of the Federal Republic of Germany and their contribution to the independence of the Republic of Germany, but also to the economic development of the Republic of Germany. It is known that the Federal Republic of Germany is the third investor in the Republic of Croatia right behind Austria and the Netherlands, and since '93. To date, out of a total of 24 billion and some million kunas invested in the Republic of Germany 3 billion euros. The Federal Republic of Germany is also the largest partner, the economic partner of the Republic of Germany with Italy and annually, in 2009, for example, there was an exchange of exports to Germany of 800m euros while imports from Germany were 2 billion euros. That it is significantly less 20% less than in the earlier periods because of the economic crisis. This proposal of the Treaty Confirmation Act only changes the current contract between the Government of the Republic of Germany and the Republic of Croatia in such a way that the 2002 Water Financing Agreement can be applied throughout the territory of the Republic of Germany and the Republic of Croatia, not only in the southern area. Therefore, this contract gives Croatia 12m euros in loans with subsidised interest rates of 3m euros and in particular 1m euros in grants in the form of aid. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61620	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61621	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the amendment of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation (2002), the urgent procedure was P.Z. No. 620, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany amending the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation (2002). Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 111 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61622	There should now be a final proposal for the Law amending the Law on the Open Universitys, but we will accept the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, which proposes that the debate on this point be postponed until the applicant amends his proposal in terms of the observations sent to him by the Committee. Therefore, this item will come to the agenda later, and we will move to the 9th point of the consolidated agenda. It is – - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Foundation "Croatia for Children", first reading, P.Z. 622 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Family Affairs, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, State Secretary, Honored Mr. Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61623	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Based on the analysis we carried out on the work of the "Croatia for Children" Foundation for 2009, the national population policy and its objectives in certain areas and the "Croatia for Children" Foundation Act, it is estimated that existing legal solutions do not achieve the full possibility of affirming the role of the foundation in creating a stimulating threat to children, parents and families. They also consider that the foundation is difficult to achieve the expected role of the trust without the established professional service and the relevant auxiliary bodies, i.e. the commission, in spite of the means provided. For those reasons, a draft bill has been drawn up which is proposed as follows. First, the circle of beneficiaries of the right to trust support, compliance with the national population policy tasks. According to the current support provision, families with five and more children and children from these families were intended, and all other families and children were in the category of exceptional. Two, as beneficiaries of trust support, also propose legal persons in the activities of education and education, social care, health care, so that this support is targeted at pregnant children or births. This means that the support in question can be obtained by the Clinical Hospital in Klaicjevo that is the Children's Hospital in Klaicovo. So these are children who have malignancies or some other hospital in the Republic of Croatia can also provide support in money to buy the appropriate treatment equipment for those seriously ill children. In cooperation with the school on the island or mountainous area, the Foundation can also provide and implement a specific programme aimed at children and families living in the area. It is also important to point out here because in the past law, it was not that the professional services of the foundation's resources could benefit from 7% of the annual income for their own needs. for employees' salaries. According to the current budget of the Foundation, this could amount to up to 680 thousand kuna, but the control of the funds for the need of professional service and the board of directors will be determined by the budget of the Foundation for each financial year. It is also prescribed that the obligation to coordinate the general acts of the trust with these amendments to the law, which means extending the powers of the board of directors, increasing the presence of the trust committee in the proposed support, and the obligation to control the spending of funds from the stratified user. This is the first reading. We will come to the best results in common synergy. I'd just like to tell you that the foundation is now accomplishing extremely large tasks and extremely large jobs. It's only a matter of time before the end of this week, so the foundation has opened a tender for the scholarship of thousands of students and thousands of students. She also opened a weekend contest for 2,000 children from all over the Republic of Croatia. This year, the foundation organized 700 children, and also this year during the winter festivals, the foundation financed 200 children primarily from Dalmatia, means wintering here at Sljemen in the Red Cross was financed. Here's so much to say about this trust, if you have any questions, I'm at your disposal. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61624	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. One registered HDZ club. Honored representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's actually the fundamental goal of amending this law to achieve greater affirmation and the involvement of trust funds. We have already heard from the secretary of state that during 2009, the foundation once helped the children from multiple families, children without both parents, approved scholarships, helped treat a seriously ill child, and during 2010 no small number of 700 spent summers in Novi Vinodolski and 200 children will winter on Sljemen this winter. It's a really big job that happened in the foundation organization. The change of acts will also scholarship high school students. The proposal to amend this law is to open the possibility of a foundation to provide direct support to child care programmes, to protect mothers and children, and to raise and education that is not financed from the state budget. The proposed provisions contribute to a better implementation of the measures of the National Population Policy in the dimension of child care and the protection of motherhood and children, as well as a more elastic approach to the implementation of specific objectives, especially in the area of the family support system, child care and the health care of mothers and children. The proposed changes will extend the purpose of the Foundation to family users with a number of children or children from these families, better co-operation with health, education and social institutions will be achieved, better co-operation with institutions for the health care of pregnant women, births, mothers and newborn children will also be better co-operation with units of local and regional (regional) self-government and public institutions for the implementation of programmes intended for children and families, especially children established in poorly populated or traffic isolated areas. This certainly enables the use of cultural, sports and educational content in the free time of children. This proposal will also address the issue of financing the Foundation's Professional Service and its temporary and permanent commissions, resulting in faster data processing and faster implementation of the programme. The Foundation now employs two workers with support from the relevant services of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. It is necessary to establish an expert foundation service with the required number of employees and temporary and permanent commissions. The adoption of this law does not require the provision of resources in the state budget. The fund is funded from income gambling according to the law. It should also be said that funds for the work of the foundation are provided from the income of the trust and must not be higher than 7% of the total revenue of the trust for this financial year. Here, the HDZ Representatives Club supports the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61626	Thank you. And another individual debate, Honored Representative Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61627	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Based on the assessment of the situation and the experience so far in the implementation of the Act on the Foundation of the "Croatia for Children" it is necessary to make changes and additions to the Law, and they are just now ahead of us. In order to create approximately equal conditions for growth and development, all children needed in the rural area to support individual programmes. I especially want to point out the program in the year before going to elementary school so-called. A small school where the psychophysical and motor skills of children are lagging behind compared to children attending kindergartens. In order to improve population policy, support should be given and care should be given to families with more children. A particular problem is the transportation of high school students when we have two, three high school students in the family, and they travel to a school up to 60km away where travel costs are up to 2500 kuna per month. For these families, the problem is to buy textbooks and other school supplies. The foundation should provide support to associations that help their children, parents where there are problems in the development of children, their health and treatment. For e.g. educational programmes for parents. The school for parents needs to be provided with funds. I believe that the adoption of the criteria and criteria set out in Article 2(3) will set priorities in achieving the support. It is necessary for professional services to inform the public as much as possible about the trust and support opportunities. I support the bill on amendments and additions to the "Croatia for Children" Foundation Act in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61628	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this bill. We'll vote when I hope they get the conditions tomorrow. That'll be all for today. For tomorrow, I announce that we will begin at 9.30 p.m., or continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy, and I announce a vote at 12 p.m. sharp at noon. Good night to you all and until tomorrow. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-28-0.u61629	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation, first reading, P.Z. No. 622, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage and vote on the proposed conclusion. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of 107 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against. Good morning! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, we will proceed with the session. Right at the beginning of the clubs so we can have a vote at 12:00. Also announced that there are about 60 points of the agenda unfinished, so we will continue work next week on Wednesday 3rd this session. Of course, when we get together and when we're more, I'll do it one more time. So we move on to - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Academy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 623. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Ms Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
