ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49499	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. I am opening the 17th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to Mrs Jadranka Kosor, Vice-President, Vice-President and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received a record of the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? If there are no objections, I would like to point out that we have adopted the minutes of the 16th session of the Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I stress that the points we did not discuss at the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament are printed in thicker letters. In the final draft agenda, I included 4 new points under regular numbers 11, 12, 13 and 14. These are the proposal for a law supplementing the 1996 Act of Confirmation of the Protocol with the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of 1976 with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 520, point 11. Secondly, the motion for a decision to declare "A Day of Remembrance of Host Camps in the Homeland War". That's point 12. The report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2009, point 13. I Report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the HR Programmes Act in HTV during the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010. And the HRT Directorate's 2008 report on HRT's business. The proposal is proposed by the HRT Programme Council and that is point 14. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under points 5, 9, 10 and 11 and from 31 to 33 list the laws proposed to adopt by emergency procedure. These are the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Sales of Apartments with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. 517th point 5. Proposal for a law amending the Law on general application matters, with final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 518, point 9. Third, Proposal for a Law on Marine Fisheries, with the Final Proposal for a Law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 519, point 10. Proposal for a law supplementing the 1996 Act of Confirmation of the Protocol with the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of 1976, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 520, point 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 514, point 31. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Proposal for a law supplementing the State Matrix Act, with final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. the number 515, point 32. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Personal Name, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 516, point 33. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49500	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we oppose the urgent procedure of 31st, 32rd and 33rd items of the agenda, because none of these topics require an emergency procedure. It can be discussed in normal procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49501	Thank you. No more objections. I would like to stress that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on General Application Matters, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z.E. No. 518, point 9 and Proposal for a Law on Marine Fisheries, with final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. the number 519, point 10, shall comply with the European Union rules, and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of these laws. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure of the other laws. Please engage and check the quorum. The result? 93 MPs, we have a quorum. We can vote. First, does any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Promotion of Sales of Apartments, P.Z. No. 517, point 5? If not, let's vote. Let's get involved and vote on the emergency proposal for this bill. The result? The urgency was accepted by most votes with 91 votes for, 2 abstentions, nothing against. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the 1996 Protocol Act with the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of 1976, P.Z. No. 520, point 11.? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure. The result? The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most of the votes with 97 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against. We now have these three laws for which the president of the HDZ Club Mr. Andrija Hebrang has made an observation about the urgency of the proceedings, these are the Act supplementing the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, P.Z. No. 514, item 31, with a proposal not to go to an emergency but to a regular procedure. Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49502	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the proposing code of point 31. I suggest that the proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the acquisition of stock companies is followed by an urgent procedure. You are well aware that these are problems related to 25% of the city of Opatija sold by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that by interpreting the Agency it is believed that the city of Opatija is obliged to announce the takeover of the company Opatija which neither was the government's intention nor was the intention of the city of Opatija, and with such changes, we would resolve your misunderstanding and I would say a good initiative of the Government and the cooperation of the Government and the city of Opatija could end with such solutions. And I suggest that we try to talk about this point about this solution, not about the misunderstandings and conflicts of the agency and the city of Opatija.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49503	Thank you. We have a proposal not to go through an emergency procedure and the SDP club insists on the urgency of the procedure and we will decide to vote. Please turn yourself in and vote. ... Here, the Prime Minister has agreed to accept the motion that this law be followed by an urgent procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we'll also vote on the urgency of the procedure. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal is to go by emergency procedure accepted by 102 votes to one abstention and one against. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure other than the president of the HDZ Club Act on the completion of the State Maturity Act, P.Z. No. 515, paragraph 32, is the SDP representative club proposed? There isn't. So here was the remark. Let's be clear about the vote. So, the remark is that you are not going and the proposal is to go by emergency procedure. Please make a statement. Let's get involved and vote. ... Please, for this law supplementing the State Queens Act, it is proposed to proceed with an emergency procedure from the SDP Representatives' Club. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The reference to this proposal was made by Mr. Andrija Hebrang not to take urgent action. Since other remarks do not put it to the vote whether to go or not. Please make a statement. Let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal didn't go through with an emergency procedure. He got 35 votes for, 3 abstentions and 67 against. Let's move on. Is there any of the representatives other than that we have heard the remark, whether any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Personal Name Act, P.Z. No. 516, paragraph 33, is the SDP representative club proposed? Mr. Hebrang had an observation that he wasn't going through an emergency procedure. Are there any more? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure for this bill. Score. The emergency proposal was not accepted because it received 39 votes for, 1 abstention and 65 against. He's going into a regular procedure, just like this previous law. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain a draft agenda with a call for a session. On item 11, we have made clear on the occasion of the emergency vote. Do any of the representatives have objections at points 12 to 14 of the final draft agenda that did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation to this session? These are the proposal for a decision to declare the date of memory of the prisoners of enemy camps during the Homeland War and the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2009 and the report on the work of the HRT Council on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Law on HTV Programmes for the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010 and the Report of the Croatian Agency for the operation of HRT for 2008. The proposal is proposed by the HRT Programme Council. Any objections? If there are no objections, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda is set. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda. I suggest, if we agree in accordance with the tradition so far that we do not read it fully but let me announce that the established agenda is as I have suggested in the final draft agenda with the changes we have heard here. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask for a quorum fortification, or let's get involved and see what happens to the quorum. Is that the result? 82 turned on. I think there's more of us. We have a quorum. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission pursuant to Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 17th session agenda with three new points. First – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Social and Encouragement Building, first reading, P.Z. No. 521st Proposer: Club of HNS Representatives. Second – Proposal for a Law on Family Law Supplements, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 522nd, Proposer: Representative Dragutin Lesar. And third – Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2009, applicant: Government of the Republic of Croatia. Do any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of these points in the 17th session agenda? If there are no objections, I find that we have completed the agenda with the points I have proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49506	Dearly bereaved Radic family. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me in this for the family, for his party, but also for all of us at a sad moment say a few words of forgiveness and thanks to Stjepan Radić, pianists, music educator, politician, a national representative who, on Monday 22 March of this year at the 82nd year of life, ended his earthly path. Today at 10 o'clock in the Zagreb cemetery of Mirogoj, we escorted him to his last resting place. Stjepan Radic, Professor Radic was born September 9th, '28. In the last century, only a month after the people sent him to the last resting place of his grandfather by whom he was named, but by taking that name he took over also the charisma of wearing all the things in his life that we know to say on his shoulders carried a number of patriotism through all those tumultuous times. His parents had to go to emigration. He was raised by his grandmother, Mary, and she discovered a talent for music. She taught and encouraged him to do so, and we can say and direct him. What hit a number of those who were involved in politics in those times, but also those who were not actively engaged, but who belonged to families from which they grew up and grew up to be patriots, too. And he had to be emigrated, extradited, convicted, kicked out of school. But none of it could sway him. He came back, finished the academy and worked his whole life where he thought he could give the most where he felt that he was actually his call and place of work and action. From 1961 until retirement in 1995, Radic was a professor at the music academy in Zagreb. During all those years, he raised them as a educator of many generations of young artists, moved them to cultivate, to create and present the culture of his people. He did it himself. There are numerous of his performances from America, China. Pedagogical work in Japan, then returning to Croatia and his favorite city in which he was born and in which he lived, in the city of Zagreb. Yesterday and today his students, his students, his associates, and his professors, said goodbye to him. They said goodbye to a man who lived by the principle of "I don't need to be sent an invitation, I'll come if you need to call me in the front row." That's how he acted as a pedagogue, that's how he acted as a professor, that's how he acted as a human. In this way and because of such work, we in Croatia are particularly grateful to the peasant party, because in the 1990s when he joined the work of the Croatian Peasant Party should have both strength and courage. But he did not miss what we are and what we call doing as an idea, to put it back in the first place, to establish democratic relations in these areas in the creation of our young state. And there he made his contribution, his full contribution to the consolidation of the party, in strengthening the party never wanting to be first, but always with those and where it was most needed. He was a member of all the parties' bodies and honorary vice president of the party. In 1995, Prof. Radic was elected a National MP at the Croatian Parliament in the elections. And that's the duty of a term of office and a half. He also accepted the duties and duties of Vice-President of the Parliament. He was a member of a number of committees. Let me just mention the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation. He was a member of the parliamentary delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. He was on the executive board of the National Group of the Croatian National Assembly at the Interplanetary Union, which is a member of a number of committees appointed by the Croatian Parliament. In all these bodies, they try to contribute in the way their lives work, their family functions, the academy and society. His password was always not to break bridges. There's a lot of those who break down, bridges we have to build. He built them in a party, built them in inter-party cooperation, established them, and I believe that he will remain remembered for that as well as for his work in the Croatian Parliament. For his work, for the contributions made by Prof. Radic also received numerous confessions. I'm going to point out here just some one, the one that was his favorite, and that's the Milka Trnin award. Then, the "Lovro the noble Matačić" award for life's work, and the special prize he highlighted, the award "Vladimir Nazor" for life's work. All those who evaluated his work in the assignment of these confessions were, in fact, estimating his contribution to what he did, how he did, and how he gave himself. That's why I express my condolences to my family. They'll miss their professor, their grandfather, their dad most. We, our party friends, will miss, will miss an empty chair of a wise professor who has directed us so many times what and how to do and how to behave. But also from the political scene of Croatia, a quiet man has left his entire life, leaving judgment on himself to others. For this reason, and this time on my own behalf, I believe in the name of all of us once again expressing my condolences to his family, and what I want to say from my heart will remain in our slowdowns, because some of the colleagues and colleagues you and during this meeting have sat together with him in the assembly benches and made important decisions and conclusions, and at the last resting place let peace be upon him, may God bless him and his easy Croatian country and glory. - Performing an appropriate tune -
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49507	Ladies and gentlemen, as there are here today a number of MPs and representatives who were not here yesterday when we honored Mr. Stjepan Radic, and in the presence of a respected family, please honor Stjepan Radić with a minute of silence. - A minute of silence - May eternal praise be to our colleague, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Stjepan Radić. Thank you. The memorial meeting is over. We're continuing the session... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I suggest we complete the agenda for the 17th session. Please engage to see the quorum. 97, so we can decide. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 17th session agenda with eight new points. 1. Proposal for a law amending the Act on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 523; 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Special Taxation of Salaries, Pensions and Other Receipts, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 524; 1. Proposal for a law on humanitarian aid, first reading, P.Z. No. 525; 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 526; 1. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Amendments and Supplements to the Specific Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the implementation phase of the projects Cruising the Agricultural Land in Croatia, with the final proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 527; 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Code, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 528; 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on flammable liquids and gases, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 529; 1. Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2009. Your proposal is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act, with the final proposal for a law under point 4, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Code, with the final proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on flammable liquids and gases, with the final proposal for a Law, P.Z.E. No. They shall comply with the rules of the European Union and in accordance with Article 161 thereof, respectively. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of these laws. We're going to vote on the urgency of the procedure with the other laws. Please, let's get involved for quorum and otherwise vote. So we have a quorum. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts, P.Z. No. 523, point 1. Maybe when voting the agenda that manually so far, by raising your hands actually. Any objections? There isn't. We're going to the vote. I ask who is in favour of this proposal that this law be discussed by emergency procedure and raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the emergency proposal has been accepted unanimously by 105 votes. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts, paragraph 2. Any objections? There isn't. We can approach the vote. Who is it for this proposal to include this point in an emergency procedure? Thank you. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. With 105 votes, this proposal has been accepted. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on amendments to the business contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the implementation of the implementation phase of the project, the rounding up of agricultural land in Croatia, point 5. Any objections? There isn't. Please, let's vote. Who's to apply the emergency procedure raise your hand. Thank you. Against? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that we have accepted an emergency procedure with 106 votes unanimously. Do any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of this session, which are points under regular numbers 3 and 8, the draft humanitarian aid law and the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2009? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we've established an addition to the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you will now be divided here by the flowers of the narcissist. This Saturday, March 27th, in Zagreb, the Day of Narcissus has been marked traditionally for the 14th year in a row. All charity contributions collected during the campaign will be intended for humanitarian purposes for prevention and early detection of breast cancer and development of the "Mama and I" educational project. Apart from Zagreb, the action will be conducted in more than 30 cities throughout Croatia. By including in this action, we wish to continue to raise awareness of such a serious problem and invite all representatives' clubs to support this commendable action with symbolic contributions. While the representatives of our service share the narcissists we can continue because the best thing is always working, not wasting time, if you don't mind. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49510	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before continuing our session, please honor the tragically deceased President of the Republic of Poland, Mr. Lech Kaczynski, his wife Maria and all tragically injured in a serious plane accident when Croatia, when Europe, when the world lost one true friend of Croatia, a true friend of peace, was the tragically deceased president of the Republic of Poland. Let us honor him and all the victims of this terrible accident. - One minute of silence - thank him and praise him. We continue the session according to the agenda by going to point 4. The report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009 shall be made available for the following week when the President of the National Committee, Mrs Vesna Pusic, returns and will be able to submit this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49511	Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to the 17th session agenda. You've taken the benches. It is proposed: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. Number 530. 2. Proposal for a Act confirming a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation (2003) with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. Number 531. 3. Proposal for a Law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the mutual protection of classified data, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 532. 4., Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ballast Waters and Casualties of 2004 with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 533. 5. Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Red Cross with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 534. Six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Golf Courses with the Final Bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 535. Seven. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters and the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 536. 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 538. Nine. The proposal to amend the decision on the list of companies of particular national interest. Ten. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2009. 11. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2009. 12. Internal Affairs Minister's report on police work. 13. Report by the Commission on the conflict of interest for 2009 to the Croatian Parliament. 14. Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009. 15. Proposals for decisions on the resolution of the present and the appointment of a new member of the Competition Protection Council. 16. Proposal for a candidate for the selection of a member of the State Judicial Council in the order of university professors of legal science. 17. Annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 with the 2009 State of Defence Report in the Republic of Croatia. 18. Report on the work of the Ombudsman on gender equality for 2009. 19. A 2009 report on the work of the Ombudsman. 20. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Judicial Council. 21. Proposal for a decision on accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. 22. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Operation in Afghanistan (ISAF). The supplemental proposal is divided into benches. Article 205 The Rules of Procedure shall first decide on a proposal to adopt an individual law in accordance with an urgent procedure. Does any of the representatives have an emergency procedure for the adoption of a law amending the Law on State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z. Number 530 that's point 1.? Please have any objections? There isn't. Then we'll vote on this point and emergency procedure. I ask you who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law, please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. We put this item on the agenda as an emergency procedure with 110 votes. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation (2003). with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. Number 531 is 2? If there isn't, we'll go to the vote. Who is to include this item on the agenda by emergency procedure, please raise your hand. Thank you. Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The result? The urgency of the procedure was accepted unanimously by 109 votes. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the mutual protection of classified data, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 532 point 3? There isn't. Please, who's tuning in on the emergency procedure of this agenda item please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The result? And this item of the agenda has been accepted to go by emergency procedure unanimously with 109 votes. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Waters and Casualties of 2004 with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 533rd point 4.? There isn't. Please who is to be classified by emergency procedure this point? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. And this point has been accepted to go by emergency procedure unanimously with 109 votes. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Red Cross, P.Z. No. 534, point 5? If there isn't, please let us plead by raising our hands. Who's for the urgency of the procedure at this agenda point? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. And this item of the agenda was unanimously accepted to go by emergency procedure with 109 votes. Any of the representatives of the objection to the emergency proceedings in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Golf Courses, P.Z. No. 535, point 6. If there isn't, please let us know about the urgency. Who's in favor of an emergency procedure, an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Restraint? And this agenda item entered the emergency procedure unanimously with 109 votes. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation, that I do not read the entire text, P.Z. No. 536, point 7. There isn't. I'd like to make a statement about the urgency. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. And this law entered unanimously with 109 votes in the emergency procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Public Roads, P.Z. No. 538, point 8? There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for this item of the agenda please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. And this one was included unanimously for an emergency procedure with 109 votes this point. So I suggest we don't read because I've already read this all together. Do any of the MPs and representatives have any objections to the establishment of the remaining points in the 17th session agenda? These are acts from the 9th to the 22nd points submitted. If not, then we believe this agenda has been accepted. Please don't let me read this all together. The completion of the agenda has been established. We will continue the session on Wednesday 28.4. at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Have a nice weekend. I'm closing this session for the day and all the best for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin by asking questions to the Government or to an individual member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 180 to 184. The current morning is held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. So we move on to asking questions. First in line is Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49513	Madam President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Ministers. I'm going to ask this parliamentary question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Karamark. Dear Minister, for a long time there has been a need for a legal and practical solution to the open issue of Croatian citizenship of citizens who have lived in the Republic of Croatia for decades and who have not yet succeeded in becoming its citizens. It is obviously a problem that requires changes and complements two laws, the Law on Citizenship and the Foreign Law. Knowing that there have already been attempts at a permanent solution to this issue and an initiative on your part, please answer me what and when you intend to do in terms of solving this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49514	Thank you. Mr. Minister Tomislav Karamarko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49515	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. It is true that at this time in the Republic of Croatia lives a number of Serbian nationalities that do not meet the conditions for obtaining Croatian citizenship under existing legislation. One group consists of returnees to the Republic of Croatia who left Croatia in '91. They were not Croatian citizens until then. Another group consists of persons living here, educated and working whose families have Croatian citizenship, but are born according to parental statements of Bosnia and Herzegovina or Republika Srpska. And very briefly, the MUP made a proposal for a draft amendment to the Law on Citizenship. In addition to the improvements provided for in this legislative amendment, we will also try to propose a solution to the status of this group which, in the midst of war events, has lost the right to Croatian citizenship. The law will soon be referred to the government's procedure and further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49516	Thank you. Mr. Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49517	I thank the Minister for this... bringing out the facts we know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, these people live in the Republic of Croatia and this is their unsettled status for these people is a series of life problems, I would say even existential problems, work problems, treatment problems and even marriage problems. Therefore, I think these are sufficient reasons to urgently approach the resolution of these matters, i.e. in the activities of amending these laws. I ask that it be within a very soon period and ask you to give us a written answer on this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49518	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49519	Thank you very much. My question has been addressed to Prime Minister Kosor and goes about like this. Mrs. Kosor, Croatia has entered or is already close to debt slavery, almost 3% of GDP is paid only interest on Croatia's debts. Every fourth resident lives below the poverty line, nearly a million people in Croatia live below the poverty line. 320 thousand people are unemployed. You said a few weeks ago that 2010 was true. Yes, in 2010, Croatian citizens will experience as a year of truth, what are the results of the work of the HDZ government for six years. My question is, what would you call 2009? Perhaps, since at the beginning of the year you denied the crisis in a year of untrueness, in a year of lies? Perhaps, since you spent not enough of the 10 anti-recession measures in 2009, as a year of inaction by the Croatian Government or inactivity of the Croatian Government? Perhaps, since you told farmers in the 6th month of 2009, there's money to encourage them, maybe in 2009 it's a hoax? Or perhaps, since you have introduced a crisis tax in the 7th month, you can call in 2009 the kidnappings of Croatian citizens, or money from their salaries. Or, since after six months, you're returning the part, or you admit that the hack was the wrong move for years of missed moves. And as you would call Mrs Kosor the last six years of the Croatian government, given that the external debt has increased to 44 billion euros, since the number of unemployed is the same as that of the one you took over in 2004, given that you returned to the Croatian economy in 2006. Would you call those six years of Croatian government lost or spent six years? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49520	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49521	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative. You asked 421 questions and you didn't actually ask anything, but you tried here at the beginning of this "current clock" and I'm sure you won't be able to do it because almost all the questions from your club are addressed to me and I'm experiencing it as a special honor. Thank you very much! Only two questions from your club aren't addressed to me, so next time, I suggest you just limit yourself to me. So leave all 14 to me. So it's not a question or you're interested in answering, but you're trying at the beginning of the "current morning" to humiliate the Prime Minister and the government as a whole. I could answer the question. What would you call the years, four years from 2000 to the end of 2003? In order to call the fact that the salaries were reduced at that time, that during that time, they were, of course, reduced and all those expenditures that went towards Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. What would you call those years in which birth benefits are reduced and also without question many other rights etc. etc. in the civil service and so on. However, I will not do so, of course, but I will answer you at least to what I conclude to be the essence. So, you mentioned debt slavery, absolutely. Croatia is not and will not be painted with such black tones as you want it, I will never assure you of it while these governments are absolutely safe. It is also necessary to distinguish the debt of the state from the debt of the citizens. I will remind you that we reduced the share of the country in total foreign debt, for example from 30% at the end of 2003, so at the end of your government's reign to 11.8% in November 2009. That's the relevant information, Mr. Representative. As for last year or this year, I never said it was this year's exam. I said this year is a difficult year, an extremely difficult year, probably since 2009. But we have come into play and remains the priority of all the priorities of this government's work to get out of the economic crisis. I want to remind you, I would like to ask you, if you want, that if there is a need to explicate, clarify all these measures, so also model A in support of the economy and the fact that we had about 500 million kuna at the first auction for support to economic operators. And model B that's just releasing its roots. And model C that we prepare for companies in particular great difficulty. I'm ready to come to the SDP club, to the club of any party to clarify along with their colleagues, to interpret to you that you understand what the government is doing. But I also don't have any trouble coming if you invite me to the centre of your party with your colleagues to clarify everything we're doing and what will certainly produce results. What would I call my mandate? You asked me your mandate, I would call this government's mandate a fierce and determined fight against the economic crisis, against corruption, and I repeat that once again. Anyone against corruption, no matter who it was, no matter the name or name. And this year, for sure, the year you end the negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union, which you will surely support. I said that I believed that in early 2011, we would sign a contract for, therefore, an accession treaty to join the European Union, and I believe that I will sign it. I believe, as I said the other day, you saw just with a pen that I received on a gift from the Holy Father and I believe it will be the beginning of a new period for Croatia. So, in conclusion, instead of "lived soup," I would say "live Croatia". [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49522	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49523	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor, let me answer you first. For four years, I would call the years of opening Croatia, for years of economic growth in 2000 to 2003. She asked Mrs. Kosor a question. Unfortunately, where we left off, you didn't move on. It's the same number of unemployed in 2004 and today. The economy stopped in 2006. Internal debt is like '99. A year. You have additionally charged with 50,000 kunas for every Croatian citizen, and you can't see the results. None of the jobs are open. Where did that money go, Mrs. Kosor? The results are catastrophic. You can fight, I appreciate it, but you don't have results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49524	It's Mr. Representative Frano Matušić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49525	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the Prime Minister and all members of the government present today. I ask my question to the representative of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and it refers to the highway unit from Ravca to Ploč. Namely, here is for the Croatian public, the consequences... In Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to respond first and foremost to what the works have been for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What was the delay on the stock from Ravce to Ploč? What's the current status on the track? How much money is provided this year for that stock in the state budget, i.e. the budget of the Croatian highways and when we can expect to complete this extremely important stock that will bring the south of Croatia closer to other parts of Croatia and thus get out of isolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49526	Thank you. State secrets, Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49527	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Parliamentary Representative. So, works on building the Ravce-Ploče stock as well as on a number of other shares have been slowed above all because of the financial market situation last year. However, Ravca-Ploče is located in a four-year public road construction and maintenance programme for the period 2009, 20102. 512 million kuna is provided in the HAC financial plan for the construction of this stock during 2010 and the beginning, i.e. The work is expected to continue by the end of this week, the beginning of the work, and the completion of the share is expected by the end of this fallen period, meaning by the end of 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49528	Thank you. Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49529	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sure the public in southern Croatia will welcome this, this continuation of work because there was nothing else to expect, it was obvious for technical reasons. Here I am only asking if it is possible and faster to complete this stock by the end of 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49530	Thank you. It's Mrs. Mirela Holly's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49531	Dear Prime Minister, I ask you a question. How would you react if you heard that a highly-ranked politician had promised a social group something just to put out a fire of dissatisfaction and extend its guarantee of survival in power, so that the politician had promised something he knew he could not and could not fulfill. Would you ask such a politician, your associate, after being caught in that deception to resign unrelentingly?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49532	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49533	Well, Mr. President, Madam Representative, you didn't, of course, specify who it was, what promises it was. Of course, I understand very well what you're asking. So I'll answer you like this, depending on whether the circumstances have changed in the meantime. It depends on whether a global economic crisis occurred in the meantime. It depends on whether this global economic crisis led to the door of Croatia, if you mean Croatia, because you did not specify whether it was Croatian politicians or some politicians from our neighborhood or from the world. It depends, of course, on whether a decline in tourism occurred in the meantime due to the global crisis and recession, losses in the area, etc. Therefore, when you explain to me in what context you are asking the question and whether the question refers to a certain period, a change of circumstances, then I will of course know how to answer you. And since you're actually asking about farmers, and talking to farmers in the past year, I'm very simply going to tell you that we've spoken to you in certain circumstances, that in the meantime all the agreements regarding milkers have been met, but just as you've seen, we still have successfully completed the talks with agricultural producers and, of course, in the middle of the protests, and as you know, the incentives of just over 86%, 60% in the money, the rest in the repromary will be paid. And as for those agreements from last year, they will pay off last year, but by doing so, in the following year, but that won't increase the charming budget, as you saw we didn't even increase it now, that we didn't go into rebalancing, and that which is extremely important we didn't increase and we're not going to increase the deficit. I hope you're satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49534	Thank you. Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49535	I'm not happy with the answer, given that you knew very well what the situation was about, and you didn't answer whether or not you'd be looking for a change in such a politician. Of course you're aware that this highly-ranked irresponsible politician is just you, just ten months ago, the villagers promised funds that you knew the state wouldn't be able to pay off, and now you've bought time again with irresponsible promises even though you're aware that you're cheating on the peasants again. As a politician who advocates morale in politics, you should know that in all orderly countries of the world this irresponsible behaviour of the then vice president, and the current Prime Minister is leading the irrevocable resignations and calling new elections. It's sad to call on everyone else to be moral in politics, but you don't have the same criteria for yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49536	Madam Representative, Article 180. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is the only weapon available to the chair of the session, we do not have any other mechanisms, says the MP can ask one question, it must be brief and clearly formulated and generally such that it cannot be answered immediately and without preparation. And secondly, the MP may express satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the answer to the parliamentary question by presenting the reasons for up to one minute why you are satisfied, dissatisfied. I think the debate and the dissemination of the debate on the issue are precisely this way regulated in the sense that it must be concise, clear and brief. And I ask you, for all of us, to abide by these provisions of the Rules of Procedure, because otherwise, if we extend and argue wider or more, then we will not end up in time this morning. So please, here's everyone to appreciate it. Besides, as I always say, the most intense debate can be held here. No one is limited here to say what they're trying to say. However, from the beginning, whenever I chaired the session in the past and this assembly, I have asked that we should not be offended among ourselves, that our dictionary remain within the framework of correctness, and that any opinion can be expressed in an acceptable way without personal insult, not only by representatives, but also by members of the Government and all those who speak here in the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking you to stick to it, but it won't at all limit everyone's right to express his opinion, but in one acceptable way without insulting each other. Here I am, please. It's Mr. Representative Furio Radin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49537	Thank you very much. I'm asking the question to the Minister of Economy. It is not common to talk about individual fates in this House, or serious human rights violations, and it is probably wrong, because they often describe a much better social situation than abstract political speeches. This story starts well. An employee in Rijeka's HEP proves mobbing both with the help of the union and after presenting our Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities actually gets this dispute. However, there is a problem, the mobbing perpetrator is the son of a highly positioned manager of the same public firm. The sanctions apply but the new director of the river HEP decides to charge Mrs. Mobbing's victim with loyalty, because she has turned to outside HEP, this Assembly. For a longtime employee of HEP, a new mobbing begins with national, sexual and general human serious insults and proven insults so much that the Syndicate requests the replacement of the same new director and for which the signatures of the senior member of HEP administration and 2 sector directors are collected. The president of the HEP administration, however, refuses to sign the shift, and instead of the director of the Rijeka-HEP, he is just getting an employee after 31 years of employment. My question is, since there can be only one thing, there are a lot of questions here, Mr. Minister, my question can only be one here and it is the following: are we really going to let a public company throw a person on the road who addressed the unions and this Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49538	Thank you. Mr. Minister Djuro Poppie, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49539	Thus, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative, the rights of workers in the business system of HEP are governed in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Republic of Croatia. So, the collective contract for HEP Group, the ethical code and the general acts of society. In all societies, the HEP Group issues in the field of realisation, i.e. protection of workers' rights in employment and in relation to employment, include the obligation of employers to ensure conditions for work in a safe manner and in a way that does not endanger health, equality and dignity of workers, are regulated in detail by the provisions of relevant general acts. Each worker is allowed to seek and obtain protection of his or her rights, possibly injured by the actions of his or her superiors, or persons with whom he or she regularly comes into contact, before, for this to the competent authorities within the HEP. Human relations are regularly monitored, and occasionally there are possible and isolated occurrences of inappropriate behavior and disturbed relationships. Each observed case is sought to react and resolve it in a way that is available. Therefore, according to the information provided by HEP, the management of the Croatian Power Agency has just commissioned the CEO of HEP production to establish a commission tasked with examining all the circumstances of the application and on the basis of the findings to take appropriate timid and other measures if there are reasonable reasons to do so. Therefore, with special attention, given the severity of the case you are talking about and the Ministry of Economy, within its jurisdiction, so the Secretary of State will monitor the development of the situation, and we are prepared to engage if there is any real damage to that case. And we're ready to inform you about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49540	Thank you. Mr. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49541	Thank you, Mr. Minister. In fact, the real question here is who's protecting who in the word "hep"? The commissioner came in, didn't listen to the witnesses, he wrote a report, I mean by heart. I'm not going to give you any characterization at all now and no description of the case at all, and I'm going to send this file to you, Mr. Minister, and as chairman of the HEP Supervisory Board, and I'm going to ask you to do it one more time, and I'm going to do it the right way, not as it's been done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49542	Thank you. Ms. Representative Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49543	I thank Mr. President and ask Mr. Ivan Shuker, Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. Last year and last year, so in 2008 and 2009, a Zagreb-based information company, on average, signed contracts with state institutions and state-owned companies on average, with an unusually frequent direct contract, without a public tender. Also with one ministry in May last year, the company concluded, with a direct contract, an equipment contract worth 6.7 million kuna and we were recently able to read about it in the media. This, of course, led to the protests of some other players on the market and to the European Commission's application. So can you explain to us, in accordance with the information you have at your disposal, how that the purchase of information equipment and software for state institutions, for the ministries and state-owned companies can be carried out at all without a public tender by direct contract? So what does your ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, intend to do in this sense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49544	Thank you. Mr. Vice President and Minister Ivan Schuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49545	Thank you very much, Mr. President. An honourable representative that you said the name of the company, that you said where and in which ministry the procurement was made then you could be given a concrete answer. However, we should know that public procurement is actually part of the economy ministry. So I'm asking you nicely to provide me with a list of public institutions, companies that we can send you an answer because this is the way you said who, what, where, how and when, and when you're looking for an answer. I know that you will now say some things in this opening part, but if you expect a concrete answer then ask a concrete question, and you should also know by the Budget Act who is responsible for what. And also in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, who, when and under what conditions can make purchases. Therefore, I ask you nicely that if you can give in writing you will get a written answer because to such a question, no offense, it is simply impossible to answer anything concrete.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49546	Thank you. Ms. Representative Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49547	You have not offended me, Mr. Minister, I thank you for your reply. However, I will certainly ask a written question and you could see it in the media, I think many here know which company it is. So, I expect, of course, a written answer, but I also remind you that you, as vice president of the Croatian government in charge of the economy, also have in this portfolio, and not just in the portfolio of the finance ministry. Therefore, I expect that, as Mrs. Prime Minister said earlier, no matter who was concerned with it, regardless of the name or name, you will be working on eradicating corruption in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49548	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49549	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Justice Minister Ivan Šimonovic. Mr. Ministers has been arrested for the past few months by a large number of people who have been in management places in public enterprises in state-owned companies or in companies that have been working with them in business. Citizens absolutely support the DORH, USKOK and the Police in detecting these criminal activities and hope that, after powerful verdicts, all these people will use accommodation facilities in Lepoglav for a longer time. But what's most interesting about Croatian citizens is what follows after Leprechaun, citizens ask me and I ask you. Will all these criminals, after serving prison sentences, remain millionaires and billionaires, or will be taken away from them illegally acquired property and compensated for the damage to Croatian citizens, Croatian companies and the Croatian budget, or will still be worth that folk's "Eat the Wolf of Donkeys".
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49550	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49551	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. We have a situation regarding the effectiveness of the state's attorney's office that around 97% of the charges brought end to the verdicts, therefore, it's a general statistic that I believe the state's attorney's office will continue to be successful at the same level as before. As regards the possibility of confiscation of illegally acquired property, we have introduced Article 82, which enables all persons convicted of acts of corruption or acts of organised crime to be seized in full, therefore, not only property illegally acquired by criminal offences, but the person convicted of corruption or organised crime is obliged to make the likely legal origin of his entire property, if that property is not taken away. If the State's attorney succeeds in proving that the property has been transferred to third parties for the purpose of preventing the confiscation of those assets, it can also be seized. So for each act committed after 1 January 2009, those rules apply, so whoever is convicted of corruption and organised crime will have to prove their property legally or else it will be taken away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49552	Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49553	Mr. Minister, I thank you for your answer, I hope that the citizens who asked me to ask this question will be pleased with it and I would only read you one message, one woman I recently met in Crikvenica who tells me to pass on the following. She says that the saying, “He who made the pit, he made a pit,” needs to be changed in the rule of law, and it should be said: “He who guaranteed him prison, he is guaranteed to take away everything he has pitted.”
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49554	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49555	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. I think it's important, apart from these corrupt things and others in this House, to talk about development, and what else would be a more important assumption of development than quality education. In this context, Minister, I would like to ask you because lately there has been a lot of talk about checking and evaluating high schools to explain to us a little about what is happening in Croatia in this field at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49556	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49557	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Your Honor. About half a year ago in this honorary home, you voted the Quality Insurance Act at the University of Higher Education, and on this basis we also adopted a few months ago a recent rule that we popularly call a quality rule in higher education, and its exact title is "The Admission Content Policy and the conditions for issuing licences for the performance of higher education activities, the implementation of study programmes and... higher schools". On the basis of this Regulation, the Agency for Science and Higher Education has started to re-accredit and has also started to act in decision-making, or recommendations, both with the National Council and the Agency itself, which allow the opening of new study programmes in higher schools and higher schools in the Republic of Croatia, since the launch of new study programmes is now fully in the control of the Senate. By law of 2003, which is still in force in several different forms, conditions for the launch of new study programmes and the establishment of any private, public and university higher schools were quite wide-ranging, and this Regulation, based on experiences from European countries, based on OECD data from certain standards in terms of ensuring sufficient space for teaching in terms of study programmes and on the number of students, this Regulation sets out very precise criteria and conditions, this Regulation is clearly aimed at improving quality, this Regulation which is now already in force, I can say that some credentials have been issued earlier, and all those high schools, i.e. higher schools and higher schools in Croatia that have not reached that level in this whole period which they needed to achieve any teaching staff, whether they are space or some other criteria that can be recognised in full space. The procedure is going very well, although it is very much work but I think we will be pleased with what this Regulation will accomplish in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49558	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49559	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I think what we heard will certainly contribute to the quality of education, and the quality in this as well as in many other segments is the key to trust for all those who want to participate in the education system whether they are lecturers or whether they are students. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49560	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Boris Miletic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49561	Thank you very much, President. Dear Prime Minister. As you know, Pula has no way into town. Once you come down from the Istrian Ipsilon, which will become a full-profile highway in a few days, you generally come to an observational cross-section with traffic lights built back in 27 years, when it was certainly at least 10 times less registered vehicles than it is today. Already now... It waits half an hour, and I won't mention the summer moons. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] Normally, we all drill into the chest when we talk about tourism, that tourism is our strategic branch and we look back at this tourist season. But I'm not gonna ask you today, Prime Minister, about solving a public road at the entrance to the city. I'm not going to ask you anything as a parliamentary representative or as mayor, I'm going to ask you as one of the parents who calls me every day because I don't think there's room for this problem in politics. I assume you know what this is about. It's about building an elementary school on the Great Summit that burned down in a tragic fire. Both the city of Pula and Istria have been taught to rely on their resources. I think we're rationally and modestly lording them. But when an accident occurred, and unfortunately one accident occurred, the school burned down overnight, of course we needed help at that time. Here from this pay phone has already been pledged twice to co-finance the construction of the elementary school at Veli Vrh, once on December 15, 2008, when State Secretary Mr. Željir Janjic addressed on behalf of the government and once on December 2, 2009, when the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister said he would refuse the amendment, however, he said that during 2010, the Ministry of Science with the city of Pula would find a solution for this school. School's being built. And the works go according to the planned dynamics, we expect children to go to school in the fall. However, on behalf of the parents who drive, children who are enrolled in one school and are driven to two locations today, even though they are formally in one school, could the citizens of Pula count on state co-financing? If so, when? Or you think they just don't pay enough taxes at the state register and they don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49562	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49563	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, of course I understand very well the question you're asking. And of course everything the Government has indicated in any term as possible aid or support, that it should be fulfilled. As far as these governments are concerned, we do not have a discriminatory relationship with anyone, we really want to contribute to every end of Croatia, that every city in Croatia is really making progress. And I agree completely with you when an accident like this happens as it happened that the school burns down, then everyone has to find strength and help. The accident is that we live in difficult times, so then we had to, as you know, cut the budget and further cut our investments and save on all sides. But I agree with you when the city is in trouble, when the kids are in trouble because there's no school, then we all have to find extra options. So in this sense, here I am announcing that next week the representatives of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will come to visit Pula, and then also to visit the school and, of course, to find the possibility of further assistance, but also to discuss it with the Ministry of Regional Development with the Vice-President and Minister. So expect a visit. I believe some concrete arrangements can be found by some of these sources of funding. So that's some frame. And since I'm also planning a visit to your county soon, and then certainly the city of Pula, there will be other opportunities to discuss it. So when we find this possible model, but to go through this roadway together that you mention to see what can be done. But I also expect to open this stock soon. So I remind you that the government has invested through the competent ministry and in the construction of roads. But I agree with you. More needs to be done, given that slowly, but surely the tourist season is coming. As far as roads are concerned, we must do everything possible to ensure that the Istrian County, or the city of Pula, is fully prepared. So the first step is the arrival of the delegation of the two ministries, the second step I will come with my associates and that we will meet first and foremost the children and your parents, and then politics as the last to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49564	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49565	Thank you very much and I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49566	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar will ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49567	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question will be addressed to Mrs. Kosor. But I would kindly ask you before, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, to remind Minister Fuchs, the deadlines have passed 30 days on three written parliamentary issues. He refuses to give me an answer, so I ask you to help the ministers on written representation issues within the time-limit laid down in business. Madam Prime Minister, I have seen in the media, and I believe that the media has well quoted you or conveyed your statement saying that you will issue a warrant to calculate the damage the Republic of Croatia has suffered through peasant protests. If that statement is correctly interpreted in public, I ask you, have you given a warrant, and if you have not given the order to calculate the damage that the Republic of Croatia has suffered through the implementation of the neoliberal economy in the last 6 years intertwined with corruption, especially since December 2003? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49568	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49569	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Representative. Here, let me first of all congratulate you on the establishment of a new party... /Specials off./... in the political life of the Republic of Croatia. I wish you many successes on your journey. And since you mentioned questions related to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports you asked for the President's help, but here I will help, so you must get it anyway is a fact, you must get written answers also written answers. Now, as far as your question is concerned, I want to say that since you mentioned the protests, first of all I want to thank all the farmers, all the farmers who are indeed, I am talking, of course, about most of them, who have had patience and ultimately, as we predicted, ended up at the table and with the Minister of Agriculture agreed on what is possible. I thank all those who understand the difficulties in which Croatia is located and, of course, in the ability of the Croatian budget, because the total incentives that are greater than 3 billion kuna, in this year in a difficult year, are certainly not a small item. It's probably not enough, but that's what we can do right now. And it's on the government's trail and decisions that unfortunately we all have to give up at this point. But also the government's desire to turn to a new approach. Of course, I don't just think about farmers, one new approach, one new relationship, both to work and budget at the end. As far as the shame is concerned, I asked because I think it's my duty because it's the budget money and it's my duty as well as my duty as the Ministry and the Minister of Finance and the Vice-President to oversee how budget money is spent. I asked to see what the consequences were. And here, I have the first results. So, only through the Home Office because, of course, the police had to go to insurance, because people had to get extra diaries, that they had to have food because they were there as you know day and night, only to that end was more than a million and 700 million kunas spent. Two vehicles have been damaged, so it should be included in what can be called damage. I'm talking about budget money. So that's the money that's been allocated from the unplanned, from the budget of the Ministry of the Interior and that's the money of which, the taxpayers. And you need to know that. So, I thought it was my duty to submit such a report to the public and to you as agents. That other type of traffic damage, etc. We're still expecting that, but my call to calculate it and to see what that ultimate damage is, of course, not at the expense of farmers, and I didn't want to say anything other than that we all have to take care of taxpayers' money together. The budget of the Republic of Croatia belongs to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and each of us must treat it extremely responsibly. I want to end up when you've given me that opportunity and in the future representatives of agricultural producers to solve all the issues together, the central place is the Ministry of Agriculture but, of course, everyone else is at our disposal and I want the farmers here now to devote themselves to agricultural production, to the sowing of spring and to get as soon as possible because I've received a lot of invitations to come visit them to see each other as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49570	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49571	Dear Mrs. Kosor, thank you for your good wishes, but I'm afraid that this card will come back to me, but let's let it go now. I asked about the damage that Croatia suffered from neoliberal economies and corruption. You've been telling me about a million and a half kuna damage protests, so I'd like to help you with this calculation of corruption damage according to the government's anti-corruption report is about 2.5 billion a year. But since you didn't want to answer my question in front of the Parliament, I'm asking for a written answer about what I asked you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49572	Thank you. Mr. Agent Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49573	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. My question would be about State's graduation, so Minister Fuchs's answer to us since it's a very current topic today to talk about State's graduation for the first time to tell us about how these first state graduation exams went since it's ongoing and I believe that it interests all the public in Nice Ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49574	Thank you. Mr. Minister Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49575	Mr. President, Madam President, Your Honor. Despite all the skeptics, public polling and national prom is conducted as planned and I think at least so far with full success. I can tell you that out of the 32 thousand 894 students who are in the state's graduation system who graduate from high school, 95% of them have applied to the state's graduation or the state's graduation exam. Of these, 99% of all high school students reported a state-run graduation, and of the vocational schools whose students have 21 thousand 167, 92% applied for state-school exams, which means they intend to continue their education. So far, psychology exams, February 19th information and sociology and logic have been slowed on February 26th. These exams were passed without any single incident. On this occasion, I also thank the county education offices that have helped as well and have been involved in overseeing the schools themselves as well as all co-ordinators and teachers who have certainly contributed greatly to these exams without any single incident. We now have exams from the language of national minorities, Croatian 17 March, English 18th, German 19th mathematics and essay writing, and I think that the national prom will take place without a problem. In the meantime, we've also received registration quotas at universities, the interest is extremely large, there are plenty of places to study. I even think that there are more places to study than there are potential students, and who's going to sign up, we'll see when the state's graduation ranks all those who joined her.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49576	Thank you. Mr. Mance, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49577	I would like to express my congratulations to the Ministry and to all those employees and coordinators who have worked and I see so far on an excellent job. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49578	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49579	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, following your business instructions, I will ask a clear and unequivocal question from the Prime Minister. The question is, do you know how much a union basket is for a four-member family and how much life costs cover? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49580	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49581	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I will give you a written answer to this question because it absolutely deserves it, but I will tell you that it is the government because I know that what you are going to say now that the Government knows and understands very well because the Government of the Republic of Croatia lives in Croatia, as you know and shares daily fate with its citizens, and we know in what and what difficulties people are facing. And we know that the biggest pain of course is all those who have lost their jobs but I want to tell you very clearly and openly. For all of this, for all this loss of jobs it certainly is absolutely not if it has the responsibility of the government then it is not the most responsible and certainly in this sense it must not be forgotten that we are in the midst of a global crisis. I repeat it because sometimes it seems to me that you, ladies and gentlemen of the SDP club, simply want to skip that fact. I would, of course, like to mention that, of course, the decline in GDP in the last year was certainly terrible at the very beginning, so we had a range of 6.7 to 4.4%. However, at the beginning of this year, we still note the growth of industrial production. I'm asking you to consider that. So compared to December, I see this is making you laugh, but I don't think it's funny, Mr. Representative. I am very serious and work day and night to ensure that every job is preserved through the measures we have achieved. So the growth of industrial production in January increased 5% compared to December. But what is equally important is, in January of this year 1.5 compared to January 2009. These are some signs that can encourage us, but the most they can encourage us, I am sure, the government's programs and model A for which we have already had our first auction, we expect and call once again on the business banks and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development to inform us who won, so it's about 500 million kuna. It's about the interest we've been working on, which is favourable, so I'm reminding you from 4.93 to 5.11, an average of 5.5. Therefore, these are the data that can encourage us. Also, invigorating according to model B of our activities is also a new incentive for construction that speaks of that we have provided some 2 billion kuna through the budget, but also through public companies 12.6 billion kuna. That must give some results. There is also a law before you that, I am sure, will encourage and sell apartments, thus allowing something to happen in the area of construction, in the apartment building, but we are also going with new projects in the field of energy. However, it is safe to say here that it is important to remind the private sector of action as well. A lot happened in the last period, so people were fired, they were out of work, but when things, of course, got those kind of companies, they didn't go back to work, and I invite them to do it. I would like to say, therefore, to the joint forces of partners and trade unions and employers and governments we have space, we can, I want to inform you, and I am sure that this will cause you a smile on your face, that we have had a great conversation with the Croatian Employers' Association, agreed on some new additional measures and they welcomed these measures. And as you heard from Mr. Kuštrak, president of the Croatian Employers' Association, he said the light is on and we're going to turn it on together. It's encouragement for me, for my members of the government, but I'm sure it must be encouraging for you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49582	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49583	Thank you, Mr. President. Since you haven't warned the Prime Minister that she didn't answer my question, that she was talking about something else, then I'm going to answer the question. So, Madam Prime Minister, you don't have to answer me in writing. The union cart is 6 thousand 430 kuna and 27 limes and covers 83.74% of life costs. When you answer my question it will probably amount more because during your government everything that could have been accumulated is expensive and only now you have increased VAT and this crisis tax. When you became Deputy Prime Minister in 2004, you publicly published your cell phone number. Now I'm giving you a new proposal, let the new number be 317625, that's the number of unemployed in February 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49584	Thank you. I ask that questions and answers take place in the spirit of what I have said, so I ask everyone to remember these formulations, even in the Rules of Procedure, because we are the only Rules of Procedure left here as something. Let's move on. He will ask Mrs. Nada Cavlovic Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49585	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask my question to Mrs. Jadranki Kosor, the Prime Minister. In... The peasants only asked for what you promised them to protest in five Slavonian counties, and these are the payments of incentives for 2008 and 2009. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As your answer to those demands, the police beat up protesters on the last day of the Virovitica blockade. Some had to ask for medical help, and part of the protesters were brought to the police station for information talks. My question is, will you in future to citizens who ask only to fulfill what you promised to send to the police?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49586	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49587	Madam MPs, I didn't send the police and I ask you to take care first of all of the dignity of the parliamentary representative and of the work you do, but also of the dignity of the Croatian police and Croatian police officers. As you could see on some of the videos on Croatian television, Croatian police officers were very decent and Croatian police officers were patient, I must say because the entire public saw it, and bugs on their backs and stayed calm because as far as I know, they received information from the Minister of the Interior, so there was a warrant, to guard the protesters, to ensure peace and to ensure dignity, but also to ensure that traffic is normal and that the Croatian economy does not suffer further. Therefore, it was the role of the Croatian police, I absolutely support them. And if someone committed a crime, then of course they are subject to the laws of the Republic of Croatia. I'm surprised to you that in your actual question you're destroying the rule of law. That's not good, that's not a good message to anyone. So, every one of us regardless of protest, whether people are right or not, must do it under the law of the Republic of Croatia and I am sure that they will eventually accept it and the SDP. As far as the peasants are concerned, I must say, as you know, we have been conducting dialogue all along. We didn't need a mediator, we ran this dialogue for 24 hours, of course where it's the only place for it, and that's the Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture Minister Mr. Cobankovic. And as you can see, with representatives of agricultural producers, the minister has also agreed, the protest has been interrupted, of course, that we have been expecting from the very beginning and that farmers will be paid for incentivises of a slightly larger amount of 86%. I repeat 60% in the money, the rest in the repromation that the government was offering at the very beginning. The rest of the deal last year will be paid as agreed next year. But I repeat again because of this agreement, there will be no increase in the budget. I'm glad we're in the government too, and I'm glad it ended that way, so I'm sorry if any MP or MP of the opposition doesn't like it. Because we must all work for the sake of Croatia's only country. And I ask that in that battle to strengthen the economy, to get out of the crisis, to finish negotiations, but certainly in the fight against corruption until the last breath and SDP finally join.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49588	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49589	Thank you very much, Madam President. So I have to say that that day was personally in Virovitica, I was present at the peasant protests and I know exactly what was going on. I know what the police did. Just a minute, please! Just a little quiet, please! Mr. President, what is this?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49590	Please! Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49591	I have to say, that day in Virovitica, I was called by citizens on my cell phone. So give me some silence, please! And they said the police were beating up protesters, bringing them in for informed talks. And it really happened in Virovitica. And one more thing. It is quite obvious that you promised millions of kunas before the election, and now you are unable to fulfill this false promise, because the 2008 incentives as far as I know you will not be able to pay back until 2011. And what else do you have left than to send the police to beat up those who are looking for what belongs to them? I'm the only one who reminds you that there's a lot of those you promised a higher standard, a better life and better employment. You promised there would be no introduction of new taxes, and yet you eventually... I wonder if there's enough cops to beat up all those people on your orders. [[You can't hear the speaker off.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49592	Please don't say anything that wasn't there. And I am warning all MPs and MPs on Article 214 of paragraphs 5 and 6 which speaks of demeaning and insulting or by their conduct the general rules of conduct are waived. Don't waste any time reading these Rules of Procedures again, because all I have left is to read the Rules of Procedure. But please don't argue anything that can't be argued with anything. So, please. Let's move on and please finish these questions in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Petar Mlinaric will ask the next question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49593	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished Madam President of the Croatian Government, Vice-Presidents, Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mr Tomislav Ivić. I am a member of the Committee for the award of scholarships to children of Croatian defenders, so I am also interested in the education of children of Croatian defenders. Mr. Minister, will the cost of preparatory courses be financed for the national graduation exams and high school enrolment in the academic year 2010 and 2011 for children of Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49594	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49595	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Of course, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity will finance preparatory courses for the next school year of 2010, in 2011. After the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia repealed the provision of Article 53. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, which laid down the right of the championship, entered high schools for children of Croatian defenders, Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the Ministry of Science, the rectoral assembly signed an agreement in 2007 on incentive measures for enrolment in higher education institutions in which the ministry committed itself in its part of the state budget to provide funds for the cost of preparatory courses until 2000 kuna per candidate for each interested party in this target group, so for children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders regardless of their incomes and for the rest of the property price. In the past three years it has been very successful and done and about 500 children of Croatian defenders have been financed in this way that they have been covered the cost of preparing for enrolment in a preparatory course for enrolment in higher schools. This will be the case in 2010 and 2010 respectively, in the school year 2011, and the funds are provided in the budget of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49596	Thank you. Mr. Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49597	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I had no doubt about it, and I'm glad you continued the good trend of the ministry that you inherited from the former minister and the current Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49598	Thank you. Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49599	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government. Household debts for electricity bills have increased rapidly, as you know. They're worth as much as 375 million kunas. My question will be very simple. Do you know Mrs. Prime Minister, perhaps, the reason for that? .../ You can't hear a break-in on the sidelines. The question is addressed to such content, do you know the reason for these gatherings?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49600	... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49601	Madam Prime Minister,... In which the question arises, household debts for electricity bills have increased rapidly, amounting to as much as 375 million kuna. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Do you have any reason for that?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49602	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49603	The power industry has grown, and I guess it owes. Allow me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49604	Madam President, try to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49605	Mr. President, I ask you to protect the dignity of the members of the Government at the session of the Croatian Parliament, that is, on this current morning. This issue, of course, is not a question, but is trying to do the same as the SDP representative who started the issue and started at this session. I can answer that the total debts to HEP are somewhere today, if you ask about HEP's debt somewhere around a billion and 600, 700 million kuna, and that HEP of course solves these problems and quite certainly that due to HEP's debt and HEP's due, and we have to break that chain. If you're saying, I'm going to say what you didn't obviously dare say, if you want to say that some citizens of the Republic of Croatia didn't pay for electricity because they don't have money to pay for electricity, I absolutely understand it, but you know that the laws, that are regulations in Croatia for all equal, but I'm sure there will be plenty of time, better times in which everyone and those who are at the unemployment office today will be able to pay their dues, it's something that is necessary and something that is the duty of each of us. So we're working really hard, Mr. Representative, to make HEP better, to get HEP into a stronger investment chain. This is also the proposal that we will be going with soon, so investments in the electricity system will be well-known investments of HEP, for example related to Dubrovnik, or the Dubrovnik coast. And as for the standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, of course we all need to contribute together to make it better, to make it bigger, to keep jobs, to get people employed, and I am sure that by the end of the year that cycle will be fully opened and the light will turn on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49606	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kurelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49607	With all due respect to you as Madam Prime Minister, I do see, however, that the second part of your expression of your answer to my questions has also focused on my question, and the context of the question raised by this issue is the debt of households. Madam Prime Minister, respected members of the government, the context of this issue stemmed from my contact in the field with people. More and more Madam Prime Minister unemployment, more and more of them. I ask you not to get used to it, and give me the chance of those 60 seconds. Give me that 60 seconds, too. I'm begging you. I didn't spend it, you spent it on me. You spent it on me. So there's more and more of those who have nothing to pay those bills from.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49608	Please finish, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49609	You see, that's what Madam Prime Minister brought them to the missed policy of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49610	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49611	I'm still asking you... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49612	Well, please, you've been twice as long. Please. Thank you very much. Well, that's impossible. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, I have warned you of article 180 of paragraphs 4 and 5, which is spoken, how questions are asked, and I have warned of article 214 in the context of insult and demeaning. Here, a deliberate question is raised without any foundation and is insulted by the Prime Minister so that it is said here in public that she ordered the police there to intervene on or beat even these protesters. Well, that's actually, I don't know, I can't determine how you're going to ask questions. This is about a concise, precise and clear question. Preferably without insult, demeaning, and so on, it is against the 214th articles of our Rules of Procedure and many other articles. What's this about? He wants to be offended and demeaned even by lunches and thus to claim that the prime minister has given some orders in terms of beating... But my people, when are we going to become people here who will speak in an acceptable, understandable and cultural way and not attack without any reason any members of the government, any agents, any Prime Minister and anyone? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So can we finally agree here, which is why we need to talk about things that aren't even true and that are completely, how much I've been informed of pure fiction? Please be nice. Let's end this in a cultural, civilized way, and let's not bring about here untruth and provocations of a variety. [[But Mr. President.]] I hate to say it at all, but here I have to. Please ask Mr. Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49613	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Prime Minister, the honourable members and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm referring the question to the Minister of Administration, Mr. Mlakar. Mr. Minister, following the local elections due to changes to the law, all units of local and regional self-government were obliged to comply with their statutes with the Law on Local Self-Government. The County Assembly of Sisak-Moslavina County has done so in a way that it has effectively disbursed itself by transferring all essential powers to the mayor, except for the appointment of the coroner and the adoption of the budget without the possibility of submitting amendments. The County Assembly is unique in Croatia and since, contrary to the Statute, 24 opposition council members have not been elected to any working body of the County Assembly, while some councilors have been elected even in 5 working bodies, I imagine, due to the compensation of 500 kuna per session. The mayor appointed a 12-member mayoral union plus 2 special advisers this summer and gave them a regular monthly fee of 5 thousand kuna net, and all of this with donations costs our county at least 100 thousand kuna each month. So far, more than 600 thousand kuna has been paid out of the county budget. It is interesting that only 2 counselors have high professional equipment, and it is even more interesting that only 2 counselors are not councillors. The mayor's council holds public sessions, and the mayor interprets it as a replacement for the abolished headship, so I will quote her words published on the official pages of Sisak-Moslavina County, 22.10.2009. So, the mayor says, I will quote: "The mayor's council as a political and professional body is equivalent to the previous County headship.", finished quote. Of course, the public of Sisak-Moslavina County is bitter at all this because they believe that the Council is actually a front for buying eternal loyalty. Can you answer my question whether the Council is equivalent to the Headship, or what can your ministry take to prevent this obvious violation of the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49614	Thank you. Minister, Mr. Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative, you said part of the problem in the work of Sisak-Moslavina County which was partly the reason that the Ministry of Administration exercised administrative supervision of general acts, official relations and the application of the Law on General Administrative Procedure. Administrative oversight was carried out on November 5th 2009, based on the findings of our colleague from the Administrative Inspectorate and these other departments of the Ministry, the ministry has adopted a series of measures in its official act of Sisak-Moslavina County in its administrative oversight of the instructive nature. Some refer, or one in particular, to the County Assembly which must comply with its statutes and Rules of Procedure of the County Assembly with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and 5 or 6 measures, one of which is the one of which you are talking about the appointment of the Council. And the answer is no, the Council of the Mayors cannot change the Headship nor is it possible to invent new bodies of executive authorities beyond those prescribed by law. We've given a deadline to the mayor and all that was found in administrative surveillance as an illegal amendment within 60 days and to inform the Ministry of Administration. Since complaints continue to arrive at the work of the County Assembly, we also have to carry out inspection to determine whether or not they were in compliance with existing regulations. So, I can only conclude that the measures that we have said that the mayor should be changed in her work, some also refer to the appointment of people in that Council. The Council can, of course, be an advisory body, but cannot change any executive authority nor can it take over the role or activity of the administrative bodies which have been established in order to carry out the tasks of the self-government part of the county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49616	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Shantek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49617	Here's my thanks to the minister. I can say I'm happy with the answer. However, I would ask you both as a councilman and as a representative to submit a report on the administrative oversight carried out in Sisak-Moslavina County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49618	Thank you. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49619	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. Listening to some MPs and MPs from the opposition today, I could also talk about violence and that verbally, but here I am moved by today's day, and today's day, but on March 8th on the eve of International Women's Day, there was a series of debates, and these professional discussions, on the subject of domestic violence. I'll ask Minister Ivić my question. At most of these round tables and in most of the discussions, of course, there has been mentioned a series of activities held in the Ministry of Defence, which, of course, at the time today's Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, were being advocated, but not only pawned but also specifically worked in the field, so that the associations that participated in these expert discussions, I must say this time publicly, I didn't write anything, I didn't need to, I commended today's president and thanked the Ministry as well. Because indeed in these difficult times, considerable resources are being allocated to the work of associations fighting violence in the family and violence among children and violence in schools and mentioning the first tile that the minister then placed at the school with a zero rate of violence and tolerance. Perhaps one small tile could be placed here in the Assembly and at least we could all remember that people here are watching and listening. So, Mr. Minister, the question is addressed to you. I am asking you nicely on the last round table that was in your ministry, among other things, about the research project and the overall impact of violence on society. Can you explain in a few sentences what this is about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49620	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Tomislav Ivić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49621	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As the esteemed parliamentary representative at the Ministry's Round Table on International Women's Day said, it was about the co-operation that the Ministry implements together with the United Nations Development Programme, and on the basis of a memorandum signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in January 2009, on co-operation with the UNDP, which includes co-operation in the area of security in the community, which relates to the repression of domestic violence. Based on this memo, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity together with the UNDP and together with the experts of the Psychological Assistance Society has launched cooperation on the implementation of various projects between 2010 and 2012, aimed at building a professional basis for the establishment of a legal, financial and institutional system aimed at preventing and protecting victims of domestic violence. The results of this cooperation with the UNDP and the Psychological Assistance Society in this project, as a result of this research, would open up the possibility of further upgrading the Law on Protection against Family Violence and direct us to the effective and rational financing of preventive and protective programmes aimed at victims of domestic violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49622	Thank you. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49623	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I am pleased with your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49624	Thank you very much. It's our guest, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49625	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam President of the Croatian Government, the honourable members and members of the government. I ask my question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr Radovan Fuchs. At the last session of Mr. Minister, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. This law provides for the achievement of several important objectives, from lower prices of textbooks, the possibility of inheriting textbooks, easier textbooks, as well as amendments to the Law, this amendment was also envisaged by the action plan in the anti-corruption strategy, as the current width in the number and independence of the choice of textbooks by teachers and teachers has opened this area as an area of high corruption risk, and this Law has also brought significant improvements in this direction. However, here is the Law only recently applied, and these days in a high-pitched list we read catastrophic writings, such as corruption in choosing textbooks this year is bigger than ever by teachers, some teachers and teachers. Mr. Minister, is that so, do you have any knowledge of whether it is too soon or if you can inform the Croatian public about the implementation of the new Law on textbooks and whether the Ministry has control over the implementation of the law accordingly?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49626	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Radovan Fuchs please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49627	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. As you said, all the intensities of the adoption of the new law were in that direction. The law is only 15 days in application and is going on as the hodogram is scheduled, so at this point somewhere in the end is the vote to say so, all teachers in the Republic of Croatia in terms of supporting an individual textbook that they consider to be the best. After that vote, only those textbooks that received 10% support from all teachers and teachers will enter the second round, that is, the catalogue when they will be highlighted and their prices not to say the provisions of the Law. But you asked me specifically, of course, I was reading this very bombic title about corruption never greater, I think it's one of the inscriptions that makes some kind of comment without solid foundation. We at the Ministry of Science so far, except for the name of even some, let's say well-intentioned people and even parliamentary representatives, have no concrete knowledge of it in some kind of written clue, signed or anonymously that something like this has happened on the ground. However, preventively, we are in direct consultation and with the State Attorney's Office, and of course we will react the moment we get any firm indication and we will send what we can and that is the Ministry's inspection or educational inspection and, of course, at the same time forward all other knowledge to the competent authorities. Because as you know the law provides donations to schools of 100 kuna per teacher of that school, so these are not gifts, these are donations, and it was in the inscriptions that government officials and officials are allowed to receive gifts of up to 500 kuna, and teachers up to 100, I repeat here, it's not about gifts, it's about defining donations, to the sole amount of 100 kuna, and by doing so everything is forbidden precisely for the purpose of preventing corruption and bribery, and I think that, for now, however short the law is being implemented is being implemented well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49628	Thank you. Mrs. Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49629	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I am pleased with the answer, because I understand from the answer that your Ministry has control over the implementation of the Law, as the Law stipulates, or that it is ready at all times to engage in the control mechanisms that are provided by law, and the sentence in this article that says that the situation has escaped control has been confirmed by large and small publishers, and I would say that the Ministry has control but control has avoided large capital, and that is what we wanted first of all to achieve this Law on the well-being of students and on the welfare of parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49630	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49631	Dear President of the Parliament, I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. In 2004, as soon as you came to power, you delayed the modernisation of the Croatian railways, Minister Kalmeta then said it was delayed for a year, however, five more years have passed since then. In 2008, a strategy was adopted for the development of rail infrastructure, which is not implemented, while labour costs in the Croatian Railways are higher than the income of HZ. The ageing of vehicles and equipment increases transport costs. Unsustained infrastructure is the cause of growing uncertainty on the Croatian railways and train accidents. In the circles of HH, four thousand people are excess. Last year they marked heavy accidents in Croatian railways, and this year they will mark strikes. For six years in the Croatian Railways, the situation has gone from bad to worse due to delays in solving the problem. For such a situation is the most responsible and resolute minister, Minister Kalmeta, who has been at the head of the resort for six years. But as Prime Minister, you are also responsible. My question to you is, is there any surplus staff in the Croatian Railways according to your data? If so, how long do you think he's protecting Minister Calmett?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49632	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49633	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, first of all, I'm going to say in the beginning that I disagree with your findings. You said this year they'd mark the train strikes. I don't believe it'll be like that. This was a strike as you know the warnings, 15 minutes. That shouldn't have happened either. But we understand, of course, union leaders who represent employees. I have to say, he's an average railroad salary, and they're not that small. Of course, the salary is always small for the one who gets it and in conditions when it's hard to live. But I'm sure the talks were going well. Minister Calmeta has an excellent social dialogue. I always point out his way of talking to the unions and to the rest of us as an example, because he really talks every day and when the strike is announced and when no strike is announced. You asked me about the data. Here, I'll tell you some information. In the Croatian railways from 2000 to 2003, when the SDP was in power on average, 647.3 million kuna was invested in the Croatian railways, and from 2004 to 2009, a billion 301, 8 million kuna was invested in the Croatian railways, which is equal to 201% more than you invested in the Croatian railway. Investments made in railway infrastructure during 2000 and 2001 were below depreciation. In 2002, investment in rail infrastructure was planned to listen well, a billion 438.8 million kunas, with only 229.9 million kunas or 18.8% respectively. So, of what was announced, what was promised, what the SDP promised was 18.8%. In 2003, it was planned to invest 2 billion 172 million kuna, with 789 million kuna or 36.3%. From 2000 to 2003, a total of €368 million was invested in infrastructure, and from 2004 to 2009. 4 billion 850.3 million kuna. In this year, Mr. Representative, because you asked to cut it, cut it, cut it, cut it, so we cut it everywhere, so of course we had to cut and cut the budget of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. And this year, it's scheduled to invest 780 million kuna in infrastructure and that's what Mr. Representative is going to invest. And not as promised from 2000 to 2003, and then accomplished 18% or less. Therefore, on the basis of good talks, social partners, Minister Calmeta and the unions, investment in the purchase of wagons has been agreed, and that is what Mr. Representative is certain what will happen. But the budget, as I said to this ministry, had to be reduced. That's how it's going to be, it's on the trail of our project and the plan in a difficult recession year, so everyone has to give up something, but not of course at the expense of safety and not at the expense of the rail standard. As for the issues of surplus and deficit, allow the resolution minister to agree on a trail of true and real and firm and determined social partnership with our partners, unions in the railways. Thank you very much, and I hope you've written down and recorded these numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49634	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49635	Well, I get the feeling that sometimes we don't understand each other, and we should, because these are interesting, these are important problems for a country that needs to be solved. I asked you if there were any surpluses or shortages in your data, I asked if there were any extra employees in HH? That's the only thing you haven't answered. It's a very simple and only specific question that I asked you, and you didn't answer it. You were talking about how the HZ's salaries weren't low, you were talking about the minister having a good social dialogue, and you were talking about how important it was to buy cars. However, we are interested in the citizens of the Croatian Railways. They're 13,000 at this point, those who tomorrow due to irresponsible problem solving can end up on the road. We're interested in them. Four thousand what is speculated by extra employees in the Croatian railways. I don't care about buying a car right now, I don't care about investing in infrastructure right now, but I'm interested in four thousand people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49636	Thank you. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49637	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Madam Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government. I refer my question to Mrs. Prime Minister. It'll be brief and clear. Do you know, Madam Prime Minister, what is the total debt of state-owned companies towards the economy and what is the total amount of outstanding obligations of legal and physical persons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49638	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49639	Yes, ma'am, I know. I'm going to answer just as briefly and very clearly. The total debt is 2.5 billion. Unfortunately, the biggest debt belongs to HEP, and I think I've answered the question quite clearly, why and what problems are related to HEP. But as you know, we have successfully resolved INA's debts and will continue. Trend consolidation and public companies, therefore, companies that are largely owned by the state continue, introducing order in every sense. And what we're constantly looking for to increase the level of liquidity, and I'm sure we'll make it this year. I remind you that in public enterprises last year, we succeeded in cooperation with the administrations and in cooperation with the unions. I always point out this good social dialogue that can certainly be even better to save an additional one billion and a half kuna, and certainly it will now prove to be good in this year when just through public companies it means those companies in largely state-owned construction, in encouraging the new investment cycle to invest 12.6 billion kuna plus another 2 billion from the state budget, so one still respectable amount of money that will go into the launch of, of course, all these infrastructure projects, or in encouraging primarily the work of construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49640	Thank you. Mrs. Branchie Blackie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49641	Madam Prime Minister, the total indifference at the end of last year was €27 billion and state-owned companies owe €11 billion to the economy. The Croatian economy is on the verge of collapse, we currently have 317 thousand unemployed in Croatia today. If we multiply this by members of their families, Croatian citizens are hungry for bread. In such a situation, we in the SDP are not even at the back of our mind to play with you and publicly humiliate you and demean you. But I think of something else. You, Madam Prime Minister, use each of your public appearances to publicly call for an opposition to co-operation. The SDP takes your call seriously, and that is why we have referred to a series of interpretations and legislative proposals that would introduce order to the state. You've turned down everything in order and you're not doing anything on your own. It seems to me to me that all of this is a big game that cheers up and makes Minister Shuker laugh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49642	I have to say that for someone to claim he's doing nothing that means he's sleeping, sitting and saying nothing or doing nothing because doing nothing means doing nothing. And is that true, please? Exaggeration at every turn. I'm against exaggeration. Criticize but be certain and moderate in this, not disqualification. Come on, please, can we talk normally in this House and talk about things with a sense of measure. He's going to ask Mr. Attorney Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49643	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask my question to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, do you know how many families at this time can't pay off mortgage payments and threaten to end up homeless?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49644	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49645	Mr. President. Mr. Representative, probably when you ask a question, you have precise data, so I'm asking you to present them. I don't have that information right now. I have information that it is hard to live, that many citizens of the Republic of Croatia have a hard time living but I also have information that the government has taken a number of measures in cooperation with the Croatian Employers' Association to make the situation in the economy significantly better and to strengthen. I have information that we have made the greatest effort to ultimately direct up to 10 billion kunas towards the economy through our various projects. I have information that at the end of the construction and major project we are helping those companies that are in particularly difficult difficulties, which are not only caused by the global economic crisis or by the crisis in the Republic of Croatia, but their problems are much wider and much deeper. So, I have that information, with that information I can give you if you're interested in getting to know. Unfortunately, it seems to me from the way you asked the question that you are not interested in any of this, but I will still mention that Croatia is not an island, that in both the wider and the further environment the same thing is that unfortunately people are left without a job, that there are problems in the economy. It happens in Slovenia, for example, that GDP decline is down 7.8%, in Germany minus 5%, in Italy minus 5%, Austria minus 3.6%. So, no, you don't live hard just in Croatia. And elsewhere, as you can see, there are protests and dissatisfied people, but I'm sure of one thing. As much as you try to humiliate me, as much as you try to insult me, as much as you try to degrade the work of this government and me as Prime Minister, we get more and more power, more confidence, we gather more and more people, and we are more confident that the end of this year will be the beginning of Croatia's exit from the crisis, that this year we will achieve the goal, end the negotiations, it is also in the function of strengthening the economy and that we will uncompromisingly fight corruption. That's what I believe you understand, and I believe you believe me. And as for the game mentioned by your female representative, you will not achieve all this, and you cannot understand that you must prohibit us in the Government or any citizen of the Republic of Croatia from anything but the right to laugh or smile. Croatia needs optimism, Croatia needs strength. We have it and I assure you that all obstacles and prejudices on this government will absolutely be overcome. So, the more you push, the stronger we are, but ultimately I am your prime minister, and this government is your government, and I recommend you trust her. Thank you very much. Long live Croatia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49646	Thank you very much. Mr. Habek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49647	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Prime Minister, according to an eyewitness of the property being taken to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce at the moment, 630 executions are carried out towards those who have raised loans, pawned their houses and apartments and then lost their jobs, have nothing to repay their credit from, and their property goes to the drum. On 20 March 2009, the SDP proposed a bill on the prolongation of housing loans to those who were jobless. You said no. Did you offer them any other protection? You're not. You don't care, you reject SDP's proposals and you don't do anything yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49648	The question has been asked and answered, no further questions. Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49649	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Ministers with members and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Dear Secretary of State, I come from a region that has always been tied to the sea and where many sailors and extraordinary officers and commanders came from. Croatian sailors are highly esteemed in the world, especially our officer's staff. Through long-term sailing and lifelong practical education, they in some ways acquire the conditions for achieving the highest titles in the sea. For sailors with an officer’s calling and with a certain number of years of sailing training, it would also be necessary to provide an alternative system for the acquisition of the highest titles in the maritime sector. Namely, the knowledge that sailors acquire, adopt by navigation, monitoring technological changes, education through the pursuit of the most difficult tasks should be an important reason to enable our officers to make such a system of progress possible. That is why my question to you is: Will Croatian seamen and without completion of the Faculty of Marines allow them to acquire the highest titles in the sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49650	Thank you. State Secretary, Mr. Tufekcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49651	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Parliamentarian. As you said, according to the current regulations in the Republic of Croatia, to obtain the highest maritime titles, sailors must complete the undergraduate study. This is the most common study of the nautical or shipbuilding direction. However, the position of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure or the Ministry considers it necessary, and as practice is also the case in the European Union, to enable alternative opportunities for the acquisition of the highest maritime calling. So, only for officers and sailors with an officer's calling and for certain years of sailing training at higher education institutions to enable the introduction of an alternative system of acquisition of the highest maritime calling. Following this, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure organised a public debate in Split at the beginning of this month, and on the topic of maritime education. Representatives of maritime universities, trade unions, representatives of maritime employment intermediaries, etc. took part in the debate. And all of the above, as well as the maritime associations, supported exactly the idea of an alternative system of acquisition in the sea. In preparation for the reform of the marine education system, the workers of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure visited the British Maritime Academy in South Hampton to get to know their model of marine education, based on a combination of theories and practices and the integration of marine education with the maritime industry. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure will therefore, following all of this in the next period, form a working group tasked with proposing concrete changes to regulations by enabling through a specific educational programme that would take place in the maritime education colleges of the seafarers in the way provided for in the Convention relating to the training of the seafarers, which would lead to the possibility of obtaining the highest titles in the sea and in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49652	Thank you. Mrs. Buterin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49653	Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased with your answer. In fact, this is a very useful and well-designed model that gives sailors long-term experience, knowledge, but also additional education justifiably the possibility of progress. I am therefore convinced that the seamen themselves will be very pleased with your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49654	Thank you. Mr. Branko Box is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49655	I thank you, Mr. President. Madam President. Vice presidents, vice presidents, members of the government. I refer my question to the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mr. Ivic. Mr. Minister, given the current economic situation, if the employer needs to create new jobs, he can achieve any support within your ministry if he employs a Croatian defender.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49656	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Ivić, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49657	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Box, of course, can use incentives. Namely, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity implements a programme of professional training and employment of Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2007, which refers to the period from 2008 to 2011. It is a programme that contains six measures to encourage the employment of Croatian defenders and children of the dead Croatian defenders, and one of these measures is a support measure for the expansion of the existing activities that employers who can use to expand their existing activity in a way that employs from one to three Croatian defenders and can use the one-time support of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity for one 45 thousand kuna employed, for two 90 thousand kuna and for three Croatian defenders 135 thousand kuna. It's about means that are irreversible if they're purposely spent. It is now under public call for employers who intend to expand their current activity, which can be trades, family farms that are in the VAT system and small businesses that employ up to 50 employees, and are exclusively owned by Croatian citizens. The obligation is to keep at least two years at work after a contract was signed, and I must say that we have a million and 900 thousand kuna in the ministry for that purpose. And finally, I will also say that these measures, which the ministry has implemented under the Government of Croatia programme, have employed more than 14 thousand until then unemployed Croatian defenders over the past years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49658	Thank you. Mr. Branko Box, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49659	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for this exhaustive response because we all have to make as few employees as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49660	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Koračević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49661	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question is directed towards Mr. Popijac, Minister of Economy, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor to send me a written answer to my question 50 days ago because I am still waiting for him. Regarding this question, Mr. Popioč, you were the director of the Croatian Employers' Association before the ministerial office. Six, seven or more months ago, you felt it was necessary to reduce the parafiscal burdens. You said you had too many charges, a non-stimulative tax system, that Croatia is a recordr by pay and pay. You suggested paying the VAT at the expense of the job, postponing the profit tax. When the government proposed the 2010 budget framework as president of the HUP, you said that we could expect further deterioration of the business-investment climate, retention and increasing liquidity problems, increasing the number of blocked companies, bankruptcy companies, likely major job losses in industry, construction, trade, by these other sectors, and all of these are the attitudes that we in the Croatian People's Party club support and think are the problem. As Minister of Economy, however, you too accepted the budget. It's been four months since you've been Minister of Economy. My question is, what are you doing as a minister of the economy regarding these views?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49662	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Drinker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49663	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative. I thank you. I'm really impressed by the amount of information you've memorized from my former job here. I keep it very high-quality by monitoring the work of the Croatian Employers' Association. As you know, I was the director of the Croatian Employers' Association, and I articulated mostly and presented interests and represented this very social group. Of course, always and permanently insisting that, in correct and quality cooperation with the Croatian government, we contribute to solving these problems. I'd also like to tell you a few information you've heard most of today. Therefore, the Prime Minister has already said several times a series of information about the measures the Croatian government is taking to recover the Croatian economy, primarily of course, on new funding models that should allow a significant inflow of capital into the Croatian economy, and what was then the requirements, the exclusive requirements that came from the Croatian Employers' Association. Therefore, higher and better quality capital availability towards the Croatian economy. It seems to me with these two models these days and realized. I also want to inform you about another project that has been activated, which is the establishment of funds for economic co-operation. This model is initiated, it is in the phase of implementation and through it is foreseen that the Croatian state participates up to a billion kunas with the new billion kunas that we expect from and from private investors where funds would also possibly participate in solving the problems of certain companies that are in difficulty. But certainly wanting to finance both new and more quality entrepreneurial ventures. It is a quality instrument that has not been fully and sufficiently used in Croatia so far. We believe that we will also provide the team with new, fresh capital to address the economic problems. I would like to inform you, if you have not noticed in the means of information, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an operational plan to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises for 2010. Therefore, under the conditions of limited budget money, the Croatian Government predicted 325 million through 18 models and a programme to encourage medium and small entrepreneurship. These days they've been published in public messages. Besides not to mention all the programs now, how much money is planned. Over 230 million will be directed through the Croatian Employment Service to encourage employment. Over 65 million will go through the Rural Development and Regional Development Ministry to encourage wood industry. 95 million will be placed grants in, therefore, through support to other industrial branches. It is about 700 million kuna only within these grants through the domain and the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy. In addition, this minister of the economy, therefore, was fully aware of the situation and the moment at which he entered the Croatian government, thanks to the prime minister herself and your vote to be. And for the reason that for 27 years I have spent almost my entire working life and spent with the businessmen, I wanted to contribute to the quality of solving these very problems, both with this experience and with these knowledge about the problem of the Croatian economy. We are also aware that there are a large number of firms in difficulty today. We want to finally and definitely and through the models mentioned by the Prime Minister, who will soon be published. [[Incursion President: Finish Ministers.]] So, to finally and permanently solve long-term problems in companies that have accumulated for years, which have been created for decades, to simply eliminate that other part of the economy with this, with the difficulty and burden of companies that are in difficulty. So, everything the Minister of Economy does I am willing to present to you personally whatever time of day and night or weekend you want to get a full picture of what this Ministry of Economy and this minister is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49664	Thank you very much. Mr. Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49665	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. About your attitudes that I mentioned in the introduction of my question. I said these are also my personal views and views of the entire economy, problems, views on the problem that hasn't been present since yesterday, which has been present for a longer period of time and which ultimately resulted in 317 000 unemployed. It's absolutely certain that indifference is one of the great reasons and a whole series of other elements that I mentioned. Therefore, I don't think anyone has the right to institutionally privatise in these views. They are our common problem and together we must absolutely solve them, but not at the level of the letter of intent, but with concrete measures and concrete actions and concrete activities. Among other things, when the prime minister proposed you to the Croatian Parliament four months ago, it was said that we would get measures for a new economic model, investment cycle, a new model for the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Addressing the problem of the textile industry. Here I am asking you a written answer and regarding the opening, concrete measures on specific problems and those measures promised by the Prime Minister and the Parliament when we had the opportunity to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49666	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49667	Mr. President, Madam President of the Croatian Government, members of the government. Unfortunately, this current morning has mostly turned into a game of corn coalition, but sometimes it's not as much allowed in the game as they allow themselves. With my question, I have a defence minister, Mr. Branko Vukelic. We have had opportunities to read that Croatia has recently won the sixth canadian and that additional crews are under training. Can you let us know at which stage of preparation for this year's fire-fighting season, as regards armed forces, i.e. the MORH, and whether technical resources and people will be ready during and early the season.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49668	Thank you. Mr. Minister Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49669	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. It is exactly the respected parliamentary representative, Croatia has also won the sixth candidate and thus we have actually filled our fleet of aircraft that serve us to fight the fires. I'll remind us all, according to this plan it was necessary and now we finally have a total fleet of six canadians, six aircraft type e-tractors that are used to put out fires and reconnaissance. Also in that fleet are four helicopters, two guys... Two guys... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which also serves as a fire extinguisher, but also for reconnaissance, and there's also a helicopter in that fleet to scout a type of white, one helicopter, one aircraft type of pyasant for surveillance and reconnaissance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A total of 18 aircraft we have in Croatia, it is indeed one force that is impressive. In order for this force to be operational, it is necessary to be a proper technique, and that means that it is necessary to begin in time, we have already started preparing the purchases of parts at the end of last year in order for the Assembly to be completed on all aircraft until the start of the fire-fighting season and this job is going extremely well. To be effective, we also need to have a sufficient number of pilots, a sufficient number of crews for both canaders and e-tractors. As far as helicopters are concerned, this problem has never happened before because we have enough pilots. We'll have eight captains and 12 copilots for this season, and when it comes to e-tractors, we'll have 10 pilots. Our goal is, and I believe that in the coming years, we will succeed, that we have two complete crews on each plane, and then we are sure that we can do all the tasks that are ahead of us and set up. In order for us to be able to show even more clearly what all these planes are actually doing during the fire season, some figures from last season should be mentioned, for example. so to say that there were a total of 128 fires involved and were participants in the fire and canaders and... tractors and our helicopters, that there were 10 thousand and 70 flights, that a thousand 560 hours were spent, that 35 thousand and 887 tons of water was thrown out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a really big deal, but I think the efficiency of fire extinguishing is visible at an extremely high level, and we're going to meet this fleet, the fire season extremely ready. And when it comes to fire seasons and canadians, one of the information and information needs to be told, namely the wrong information was in some media that this canadian was delivered and that some of the changes that need to be made in advance were already paid to enable him to be able to do rescue activities at sea. No such change has been paid, they will, they haven't even been made, it's true. It will be made after this fire season, and for all delays that have been as some foams have been charged, so they will be charged by bombers and this is clearly defined and specified by contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49670	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49671	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We who live in the coast and who know what the canaders mean to put out the fire, I think it will be good news for all coastal residents, and I also hope that the Croatian government will without canaders will put an end to this crisis and recession that affects Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49672	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49673	Thank you, Mr. President. The question is for Madam Prime Minister. According to the State Audit Office and the State Statistics Office's highest unemployment rate, the minimum fiscal capacity is in five Slavonian, i.e. four Slavonian counties, Slavonian-Baranja-Srijem, to say more precisely and more precisely. So the question concerns, referred to the Prime Ministers, and I ask what the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to do about the catastrophic state of the economy, the highest unemployment rate, the lack of concept and strategy in agriculture, but not only in agriculture, then the minimum fiscal capacity of four Slavonia-Baranja-Srijem Countys in a situation where the external debt of the Republic of Croatia is 44 billion euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49674	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49675	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Representative. So on your question of what the government intends to do, the government intends to do everything it can and does everything it can and I believe that in cooperation when you speak to these five Slavonian counties, that, in cooperation, here with your support, we will achieve all the goals that we have set before us. When you talk about these five Slavonian counties and agriculture, i.e. according to agriculture, here's what I'm going to say at the beginning is that about 70% of all the support is leaving right now, so when I talk about agriculture, it goes right into these five Slavonian counties. It is not true that the government has no strategy or vision. However, I think it can be clearly read here from a few data. I have collected, for example, that we have increased milk production by around 170 million litres from 2003 to today, and the quality of milk from 22% of the EU to almost 80% of EU quality. This is also the case with investment in capital investment, i.e. investments in agriculture. So with 25% grants, up to 50% grants. What is important is that we, of course, continue through all the projects of the Government that are related to agriculture, try to strengthen Croatian peasants, Croatian agricultural producers and prepare them for EU entry. And in this regard, the Minister of Agriculture and recently presented, I suggest that this be done to your party, since 3 representatives from your party are also in the Croatian Parliament, to present a programme, namely all projects related to agriculture that are expected to be achieved in the next period, certainly also related to Croatia's entry into the EU. I also remind you of the very, very strong financial envelope that we are expected to have for the first 2 years, so a total of 3.5 billion euros means for all projects, but one significant part relates precisely to agriculture. When I first invited you to join the government, then I thought of Mr. Representative and the following: So, in your county where you and your colleagues from your party certainly have one of the leading roles is a budget for agriculture, for example, compared to last year when 52 million was reduced by 30 million and in this year is 22 million kuna. Unlike the government that negotiated with the peasants, you're in the one place where you can't do it. So when I call for cooperation, I think, first of all, I call for the same criteria. If the county cuts by 30 million, it means 52 by 30, then it comes to 22 for agriculture, then it's also saying something. And you can't constantly put all the burden of solving problems anywhere, even in agriculture, on the back of the government. In total, I repeat, as I have already said several times today, the amount of support this year is more than 3 billion kuna. So, with common forces, I think we can do even more and we can do even better. It was no use to anyone to visit and peasants in protests and to promise to buy fuel for arrival as some called it "desant to Zagreb", he did not happen. But even if something similar had happened, we would certainly have agreed at the table what we have succeeded and now I believe in the well-being of the Croatian peasant, Croatian agricultural producer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49676	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49677	Thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister, if the strategy is to reduce incentives to below 700 kuna, if the strategy is to bring peasants into the position of farmers in the EU, if we do not yet know Croatia's farm platform in the EU accession, then it is a very bad strategy. My county is Brod-Posaviska, in which it is in the power of HDZ, and you said that this county, I think, has reduced the support of peasants. Furthermore, this is the same answer I received from your escaped Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader, eight months ago. Since your truly desperate government can no longer help even to see Milan, I suggest the only way out of this situation to offer your resignation. In this way you will show the Croatian public that you are not insensitive to the collapse of Croatian society and state, while allowing some other parties to start the Republic of Croatia with their programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49678	Thank you. Whoever escaped should see it. Madam Representative Nadica Jelash will ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49679	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm giving you the question, Prime Minister, and it's about the peasant protests. During the 8-day protest, Minister Cobankovic said there was no money for peasant demands and if he satisfied that this could lead to the collapse of the budget, i.e. even the bankruptcy of Croatia. And then the money was found and a deal was reached with the peasants, and the first man of state finance, Minister Shuker, said the deal would in no way damage the budget. My question to you is: who among the two of your ministers has deceived the peasants and the Croatian public and who will you actually take the money to fulfill the promises of the peasants?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49680	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49681	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs will not take any money from anyone, this government is not working according to this principle that you are clearly representing that the government is taking something away from someone but the government is deploying money. Both my ministers were telling the truth, both Vice-President and Finance Minister Suker and Agriculture Minister Cobankovic. Both told the truth and what they both said and announced came true. So, we, Madam Representatives, have not increased the budget because if we had increased the budget then today, in front of you on the benches, there would be a proposal for a rebalance of the state budget and an increase of 500, 600, 700, 800 million or billions and an increase of deficits. It didn't happen and you're finding in your own question a deal has been reached with the peasants. Yes, exactly, ma'am, and from that I'm reading all the essentials of what you want to say through the question. You're not happy, but here we are. A deal has been reached and a deal will be reached both in future and with other groups because we are talking about what is the real possibility of the state, then what can we do today. And at the beginning of the protest, we ended up saying the same thing. We offer 60% in money, that's the possibility of a state. One piece by the end of this month and the other by next month, and the rest more than 26% in the repro material. And these are the peasants who are reasonable, talking, taking care of the situation in which the budget is located, accepted. So, Madam Representative 86.6%. And that's what the fact is. Therefore, there is no budget collapse, there will be no budget collapse. We also found a model for that extra payment we talked about last year next year. And that's the essence of this model that's been agreed with the peasants. Since your colleague Mrs Cavlovic made it very clear and admitted here in front of everyone that the representatives of the SDP, as well as some others, were visiting the peasants and obviously talking about another model, and it is clear from all of this why you are not satisfied that the deal with the peasants has occurred. It came because we accept them as partners, because we respect people. And their efforts and their work and because they understood that the government was speaking honestly and honestly, we have as much as we have, so much we can share. What we don't have or can't share or can't promise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49682	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49683	So, the Prime Minister from your answer shows that what is otherwise impossible will happen, that the wolf will be full and that all sheep will be numbered. So if the money was in the budget, why did the peasants even have to draw that money to protest? WILL tomorrow and some other groups of citizens on the street have to fight for what is otherwise the legal obligation of the state? And it's not good for the Prime Minister to practice principle by charging the peasants with the damage that has been done in the protests. Well, then I guess you'll be able to settle the incentives from that money. It might still turn out that peasants are more obliged to the state than the state is to them, because if in the budget, let me, there was money then protests shouldn't have been at all. It is very clear to whom you will send the account for the damage done, you will send it to Minister Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49684	Thank you. It was an assessment, not a bill. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49685	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, members and members of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care. Despite the global crisis and the crisis that has affected the Republic of Croatia, the health system has remained stable, I will back up with several facts. Incomes in hospitals increased by 8.5%, which is also a budget cut by around 100 million kuna, the limits were increased on average by 2.3%, you arranged for disease control thus reducing and contributing, or reduced issuing for sick leave, and as far as I've heard more than 10,000 new contracts were concluded for additional health insurance or new policies. You recently stated that Croatian Health Insurance has been a positive business for the first time since. Given that statement of yours and all these demands that are being made and medical opportunities, I ask you to tell us what is the business of the Health Insurance Office in 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49686	Thank you very much. Vice-President and Minister Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49687	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. The truth is the first year, it was actually the first year when there was no further separation from the state budget in terms of the rehabilitation of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. It is true when we started reforming the health system that the debt of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance amounted to 2.1 billion kuna and despite this difficult year, the crisis and recession, and with decisive rationalization in both the hospital business and the business of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute today I would say, almost half the debt of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute to a billion and a half kuna. Many wonder how we did it. You mentioned a few things since the introduction of the reference prices of medicines, so Croatia was picturesquely said in 2008 or the citizens of 2008 spent the same number of medicines as in 2009 but the price control of medicines costs for these medicines are lower by 450 million kuna. In accordance with the new law, we have also introduced stricter health controls where we have saved, rationalized an additional 500 million kuna, only on these two items are we within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, we have managed to rationalise close to a billion kuna. In this way, I can help the economy, there were some 160 million kunas in debt to the sick economy, and we brought it practically to zero and the Croatian Health Insurance Office today with 2 billion and 100 has reached a debt somewhere around 870 million kuna. Some will say it is only a financial report but I believe that this is an important basis for further reform of the health system, financial stability as it is today, that is, last year and during this year will show the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. We therefore created good foundations, noting that until the start of the health system reform at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, we had a new debt of 110 million kuna each month. So, we have created sound, basics, foundations for further rationalisation and for further continuation of the health system reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49688	Thank you. Mrs. Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49689	I am pleased with the answer and I am pleased to see the positive business of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and I believe that you will continue to reform health care and insurance reform, because indeed this money we provide is needed by our citizens and patients for whom we are here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49690	Thank you. She's going to ask Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49691	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question. Do you know how much the total profit of commercial banks is on interest only in 2009?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49692	Thank you. Madam President Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49693	Mr. President, Madam Representative, so I don't know what you wanted to ask by that, I don't know why I should know at this point how much the total profit of commercial banks is. I know, for example, that there has been an increase in the savings of citizens in banks, I know this data, and we have to do everything we can to make sure that there is no imbalance between reducing consumption and increasing the savings of citizens in banks, and that in this way and through various measures of fostering but also putting a shred of optimism into everything we say and do, we also encourage consumption. I don't know what you want to ask, but I'm going to take this opportunity because your colleague from the SDP Club has made a terrible lie about the damage we have announced, which has been calculated, for example for the Ministry of the Interior, a million and 700 thousand kuna, that will be charged absolutely by the peasants, that's not true, that's not true, for example, that damage in the Ministry of the Interior will be allocated to additional savings, so on additional savings in the Ministry of the Interior and repair of two damaged cars and everything else that has to be paid off. So, I refuse, indeed, with the indignity of the charge, the announcements and the fact that we're spreading misinformation from those who went around the peasants and encouraged them to protest, that we're going to charge it from the peasants. That's not true, that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49694	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49695	Thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister, you yourself said you took the opportunity to answer another question. You haven't answered my question. By formulating the question, I followed the Rules of Procedure and in Article 180 when it can be asked a clear, short question that they do not need specific preparations to be answered. And that's exactly what I set up. Let me tell you, I was actually expecting you to at least say that these interest rates are extremely large, that's what citizens expect. In fact, the total profit of these banks was 4 billion 497 million kuna last year. Croatian citizens are paying interest at rates that are among the highest in Europe and in the environment. Also, citizens are forced to live on debt, precisely because their salaries are low. And you've reduced them to such low wages, you've reduced them to such low incomes by introducing a crisis tax, a harrassor. Their costs also increased by increasing VAT. The SDP last year was 31. Three.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49696	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49697	Please kindly let me go to the end, proposed a law on special interest tax. Mr. President, I'm asking you nicely to let me go all the way, so that she can detimise herself by raising interest. And you refused. Therefore, you were certainly in the service of large capital, not at the expense of the citizens of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49698	Thank you. I'm not allowed or allowed. It says it all in the Rules of Procedure, so please be patient with it all. We can take a little longer, but I don't know how long. It is time to ask Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49699	Thank you, Mr. President, for our opportunity to ask a question. I ask the question to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr Bozidar Pankretić. And that is, what are the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resolute Ministry of Overcoming the existing crisis in the wood-processing industry?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49700	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49701	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I thank you first for asking, because I will be given the opportunity to answer very concretely about some things, I would say very specifically about some of the things that are here today, and also from the MPs I see are not here, and it is certainly about helping the economy. I think it is necessary to make it very clear what has been done in the past with regard to a very significant branch, it is the wood industry and what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done very specifically since the first moments when the economic crisis started and when certain difficulties were observed. Perhaps because of the very importance of the wood industry, I will point out that this is about 2 thousand 156 companies and over a thousand 128 crafts in this sector means in one very important part. When the number of employees of 25 thousand 130 workers working in this segment is added, then data on the fact that around 7% of the total trade of the Republic of Croatia with an overseas fall on the wood industry sector. It is particularly important to point out that although with a certain reduction in exports for the past year we still have a very positive external trade balance and it rose from 108 to 115% compared to 2008. We need to be honest that it's extremely important to stress. What we are doing and what we will continue to do is very direct aids relating to the entire sector. In that part there were also a number of meetings, I would also say the last two meetings led by the Prime Minister, where we very specifically agreed primarily with the Croatian forests and here I must highlight the Croatian forests as an important part. And when it comes to liquidity, when it comes to debt, for example, certain state-owned enterprises, then I will point out here an opposite example, which is that Croatia's forests are currently being encouraged by these companies and crafts of over 430 million kunas that have reached over 200 million kuna in this part. If the Croatian State, i.e. Croatia's forest company charged this debt at the same time could almost close half of these companies. So, in this part of it, we go out to the maximum. For what? Because we're sure that the wood industry will continue in this course of progress with all these indicators, but right now they need help. But like any other company and Croatian forest, they must ensure their claims well, and therefore our last decisions were very clear. Any claim must also be provided to clear properties, bank guarantees, and, according to the final conclusion of the Government, it is also necessary to provide the property of the owners of such companies. What we can also say where the government has ordered the ministry is the very clear and concrete support that we are giving and which we continue in this section, and the funds from the operational programme for the development of the wood industry, 65 million kuna is here to the Croatian public in particular the wood-processing industry I am announcing. We're opening that contest these days. Everyone can answer these funds, they have already met, we have had certain meetings and I believe that in that part we will also contribute to making this sector very clear from the crisis and continue to be proud of Croatia and the whole economy because we can say that it is extremely pulsating and will certainly bring total external trade, but total and Croatian economy profits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49702	Thank you. Mr. Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49703	Thanks for the answer. I am pleased with the answer, because it is evident that the measures you take prove that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and your respective ministry make a significant contribution to the long-term economic development of this particular wood-processing industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49704	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49705	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm referring my question to Minister Davorin Mlakar, so to the first man of the Department of Administration. Mr. Minister, voters' lists burden their relations more or less daily within the Croatian political scene. But I will not deal generally with this problem, but I will concentrate on the Bosniak minority's place in those voters' lists. According to the population census in 91, Bosniaks are 45 thousand, according to the 2001 census, Bosniaks are divided into two categories. The Bosniaks 21 thousand, therefore, is our historic name that we returned to Sarajevo in 93 years, but also on the census there were 21,000 Bosniaks with the old name Muslim. It's all in the voters' list somewhere between 7,000 and 8,000 members of the Bosniak minority. I've been trying to get in touch with you for a long time to try to make this situation with the Bosniak minority change in the voters list. I'm asking you, what can we do together to finally get that question off the agenda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49706	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49707	We've already had your proposals and remarks to the Ministry of Administration on the lists of voters and the designations of national belongings of individual groups. You're as far as I'm concerned, and the answer from the Department of Administration, but here I am, because of this question and your findings, I'll repeat it. I don't think what you're saying about some of the challenges that exist next to the voters list has anything to do with this issue of yours at least direct ties. However, I will only take two, three minutes and explain how the list of voters is drawn up. Therefore, the voter list is an official record consisting of other records kept by the competent authorities. Thus, the list of voters includes those who are included in the census and in the register of citizenship, residence records or travel documents issued in the case of persons who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia. The list of the population you're talking about, which includes the category of Bosniaks and Muslims, has nothing to do with these official records we're talking about. Therefore, in order for a person to have his nationality in the voters list, he had to express that nationality in one of these records on the basis of which he entered the list of voters. Unless there is a nationality mark in any of these records and some members of national minorities as well as known did not want to show it to any such person throughout the year except for those 14 days preceding the conduct of the election, may request correction by checking the voters' lists if they consider that their nationality should be there and is not entered or wrongly entered. In addition, I must also say that this distinction between the nationality of Bosniaks and Muslims can only be introduced on its own request or on a statement by one person to the members of which national minorities are considered. What you're saying is that a certain number of them were listed as Muslims is the reason that in earlier records these persons were so declared. The state administration has no right to equalise Muslims with Bosniak membership without the request of a personal person. So let me try to simplify the answer. If anyone who is registered with the Nationality of Muslim in the list of voters wants to be listed in the future by Bosniak nationality, he can make the correction in the list of voters, in that list of voters headed for the area where he resides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49708	Thank you. Mr. Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49709	I expected an answer like this, and I must immediately say that I am extremely dissatisfied. I am dissatisfied because your ministry systematically destroys members of the Bosniak minority. For example, if my wife and I belong to the Bosniak people and if we have children, and if we enlist them in the list of voters as Bosniaks after 18 years, we simply delete them. And many don't even know that there's this system of eradicating destruction. I must tell you, we have done certain activities in the city of Zagreb in the past two months and the Council of the Bosniak Minority of Zagreb has only gone to two settlements and we have written a statement about the renaming of an old name on behalf of Bosnjak. Out of 750 people, only one refused to sign that statement. Mr. Minister, I'm looking for a written reply. And once again, if we want to take that question off the agenda, then give us a chance to get an insight into the register of those who run by the old name Muslim, so we can go to those people and let them know that we can solve it. A lot of rights are also linked to numbers and you're kind of destroying it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49710	Thank you. I have to comment on that a little bit. I understood the minister had no obstacles to change if anyone asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49711	I know that, too. So, it's not that controversial. It is a dispute when I, as the parliamentary representative of the Bosniak minority, ask Mr. Minister to find that some of the matters relevant to this individual renaming refuses the meeting, refuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49712	They'll give a written answer, you asked for a written answer. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49713	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Prime Minister. I will refer my question to the Ministry of Tourism, or here to the State Secretary present. I'm interested, and I believe that all of us here together in the assembly are interested in preparing for this year's tourist season, so in 2010, and what prognosis we can hear from the resolution ministry. I'm asking this question for one simple reason why we've once again witnessed this year before the season where some individuals are, I'll dare say some media, we've given catastrophic forecasts for the season itself. However, the government itself and the ministry, and in the end the season itself, proved more than successful, and particularly successful compared to other European tourist countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49714	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State Ivo Mujo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49715	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarian. Your question which you have referred to is a question that is often referred to us these days and sectors and the Croatian public, and I will try very briefly, in a few sentences to answer and say the views of the Ministry of Tourism and what we are currently doing. So, the view of the Ministry of Tourism based on all the activities that we are carrying out is that this tourist 2010 will be a difficult and demanding tourist year, but it is important to stress that, based on all those activities and the basis of the presentation of Croatian tourism that is happening in the world during the past period of announcement and impressions are now optimistic and much better than in the same period last year. I will also point out that this year's tourism ministry has set itself two fundamental goals, which is to retain an increased share of tourists on the international market and increase the total share of domestic tourists. We have done a number of activities to this end. Of course, the fundamental and most important was the promotion for which the ministry has singled out or plans to single out around 30m euros this year. You know, and we're witnessing that last year, at the 10th month, we opened international competitions for nine models... advertising and support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first in Europe among the competing countries and we have signed contracts with tour operators that at this time guarantee that they will bring us more than 2.5 million foreign guests in this season, which is a significantly higher amount or significantly higher figure than it was last year. Of course, campaigns are under way on foreign markets. This year we went with even more significant internet advertising, which proved to be very successful last year. The government abolished, in co-operation of course with resolution ministries, abolished visas for interesting and important markets, emerging markets, that is Russia, Ukraine, India, China and other Arab countries. And what we are constantly and often stressing, we want to affirm one and a gastro offer and position Croatia as a country of quality lifestyle. This season, I will resume, will be the season of last minute, season of foreign guests, close destinations, season where guests will seek value for money, season where camping, Croatian camping and Croatian private accommodation will have better results than last year's announcements. The season where the hotel sector will record still certain difficulties and seasons in which our competition invests much more effort and more significant means of promotion than they did in recent years because they recorded two failed seasons unlike the tourist season in the Republic of Croatia, which you also stressed that last year by figures... The arrivals were among the best in the Mediterranean. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, this season will be a season of struggle for every guest. And I will answer you a specific question of what happens to the pre-season because they also often ask questions about how the Easter holidays will go in Croatia and what will happen in the pre-season. The expectations for this pre-season are realistic in the Ministry of Tourism, we expect that the results will be somewhat worse than last year for the simple reason, which Easter this year falls much earlier than last year and that the national holidays in the countries from which our guests come this year are accidentally falling at a time when weekends will be much shorter than they were last year. Here, I believe I gave a real vision and I believe that this season will ultimately be close to last year's season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49716	Thank you. Mr. Klemenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49717	Thank you very much. I can say that I am satisfied with this response, and I believe that at the end of 2010 we will all be satisfied with the number of guests who will come to Croatia and with the traffic achieved by tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49718	Thank you. The question will be asked by Ms. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49719	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Mrs. Kosor, do you know how many workers have been out of work since the last current hour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49720	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, issue 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49721	Madam representative, on the trail of your colleagues today, I must say, and I must say that you have failed to discourage me. I think it's very good news, not for the SDP, but for everyone else, that I really feel you as an inspiration and that from now on, if it's going to be harder every day, 24 hours to work until the last breath, fight corruption no matter who it was, no matter who it was, whether a suspect, accused, filed criminal charges against someone from the SDP or anyone from any other party or HDZ. So consistently, with no remainder and consistent and no remainder in implementing the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to strengthen the economy. I'm sure that when a government as powerful as this goes away from the current morning, the results will be even better than we predicted. What I also want to tell you on the trail here are the questions and you and your colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the early elections will not be because your programme on the one hand is to humiliate, defuse the work of the government and the Prime Minister of the Adriatic. It is a one-sided programme that will not succeed and early elections, I repeat, will not be because they would be bad not because we would be afraid of early elections but because in this year we would not, for example, end negotiations, but we would stop all these projects from empowering the economy and all projects in keeping jobs and keeping jobs and opening jobs. And on the other hand, your program comes down to what we've already heard. So, live soup from which we can read to just increase the production of noodles and noodles in Croatia and that's all we can read from this programme, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, even stronger, in keeping every job, in keeping the Croatian economy and implementing measures by the Government of Croatia to strengthen the economy. I am sure that you, too, will finally be pleased and I am sure that at the end of this term we will welcome you and the other representatives and representatives of the SDP Club, I am sure that at the end of this term, we will congratulate you on the tenacity, perseverance and the results achieved, and then we will go to the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49722	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ranko Ostojić. I'm sorry, then you will.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49723	Dear Mr. President, Article 210 has been injured, which is that the speaker should stick to the subject, and that means the answer to the question. So, Mr. President, I would also like to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is that you as president are obliged to keep order here in this assembly and not allow any speaker to be disturbed. That's your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49724	I know my job, Mr. Representative, because I have six mandates in this House, so I guess I've learned my part of the job. The prime minister did not move away from, unlike many who were asking and answering questions, but answered the question. I therefore refuse that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, but you have the right to ask the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to plead if you think that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. And now I give my word to Mrs. Romani Jerkovic, who she's entitled to.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49725	If you knew Mrs. Kosor how many of these answers you remind your predecessor of, I don't think you'd do it. All in all, you didn't give me an answer, so I'll tell you that since the last "current clock" 80,000 workers have been out of work, which means we're talking about a total of 317600 unemployed. And that's the information, Mrs. Kosor, for which someone of their own, I won't tell you not to be offended, but someone has made every effort not to come out in public and not to know about the increase in unemployment. So, since you're the prime minister, nearly 80,000 workers have been left without bread. And let me remind you that in January 2009, we also proposed a law requiring the unemployed to increase their unemployment benefits. You said no. But what did you do to help them? You've reduced the same new unemployed the benefits they receive during their unemployment. That's how you take care of the unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49726	Thank you. It's an aproximative number you've taken out and you can't prove it to anything. Mrs Ivanka Roksandic will ask the following question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49727	Thank you, Mr. President. I will refer my question to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and perhaps through an answer he will say everything we heard on the other side as a question, as one positive thing. I believe you will please the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County. In fact, we could read these days that a new cycle of investment is moving into road infrastructure. Yesterday, on all the portals in Sisak-Moslavina County, it was recorded that in the road, the long-awaited road Sisak – Zagreb, I am talking about the highway is investing as much as 944 million kuna this year. Why do I even say that? Because about a billion and 800 million kuna are scheduled to build exactly highways in the Republic of Croatia. We started this road in 2005. At the end of this year, it was to be completed to Moscenica, to the town of Sisak, or Moscenica. Please, Secretary of State and this investment in the highway and the restarting of the works on this road also means the opening of new jobs, means again investment in the economy. Will you tell me at what rate and when this highway will be completed, because the citizens of Sisak are expecting it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49728	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State Željko Tufekčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49729	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Parliamentary Representative. So, regarding certain delays compared to the originally planned deadline for ending this highway from Zagreb to Sisak. I can say that the causes of delays can certainly be sought in the problems related to spatial-planned problems, property-legal issues, and ultimately and already mentioned problems related to financial market disturbances. However, this second part of the question relating to the planned deadline of construction can say that it is these days that it is being introduced into the works, which is planned for 22.3., meaning which day is the start of the construction of the Buševec-Lekenik section in the length of 11 and a half kilometers. And so for that part of the highway is secured in the financial plan of HAC in this year 550 million kuna. Equally, what is already in construction is on the stock from Velika Gorica to Zagreb, Jakuševac knot. He is therefore in construction and for the facility, for this part is planned in this year 450 million kuna. So the completion of both of these shares is expected within a year. So, in a year's time, there should be a full stock to Lekenik. And for the Lekenik-Sisak section, negotiations are under way with the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and we believe and we are almost certain that with these two investment banks, we expect definitely favourable financial resources in terms of costs, interest and manuals that we will succeed in agreeing on the arrangement and will then enter into the preparation of the construction and final and last remaining shares of the highway from Zagreb to Sisak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49730	Thank you. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49731	Thank you, Secretary of State. I have to show satisfaction that this is true that the road will reach Sisko. And to all those who have been trying to tell these years that there will be no Sisak-Zagreb highway this is one big answer. Why? Because in these economic conditions, when we know how much we need to spend money on just investing in infrastructure, this is a major shift, and hopefully, I'll take your word that next year at this time we're going to open this stock from Bushec to Lekenik, it's a blood vessel of cowards all over Banovina, Posavina and Posuplje. And I hope that my colleague Vidovic will not laugh again, and I must remind him on behalf of our Sishken that he was sitting in the government that stopped building this road 10 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49732	Thank you. He will ask a question, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49733	Thank you. It's a question for the Prime Minister. Mrs. Kosor, I'm going to ask you a question, I'm asking you to answer me. Yeah, I mean, since we're not here for a literary group meeting, that you're not telling me about fighting until the last breath, it's a nice movie. That I will not discourage you, etc., that the forest will flourish. If you don't know, say you don't know, I can see the atmosphere here is cheerful. If you know, try to answer. The question is, do you know how many workers in Croatia are working and not getting paid?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49734	Madam President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49735	Mr. President, Mr. Representative. Here I will absolutely try very, very concentrated and concisely answer your question. But first, let me allow you and I think I have the right to do so as Prime Minister, congratulating you on your reelection as president... Split. [[/The noise in the hall, the pay phone doesn't understand.]] It is an important moment for both you and all of us, since it is about Split, a big city. But I agree with you, this is not a literary group, I agree with you completely this is not a literary group, and here you should not talk about flowers and spring, but should primarily give citizens of the Republic of Croatia the answers to the questions they ask. I understand, of course, that Croatian MPs in this House are looking for answers, but I believe you will agree with me that the same questions of the government and the members of the Government must be both serious and concise and concentrated. And I agree, so now I'm moving on to the answer. So, as I believe you will agree, it is not a matter of the government that the government should know about each worker, but it is a matter of the government to absolutely agree with that principle or with that model and that the government should meet, or to bring what is called the legislative framework, that such things, that people do and do not get paid do not happen. I agree with you, and I believe that through the commentary of what I have said you will condemn those employers who do not pay their employees, I do the same and do everything together so that people who work get paid, decent pay for their work, but also do everything we can to make sure that those who do not work today and those who unfortunately have lost their jobs find it, to do everything through projects to retrain, to be educated, to make it absolutely acceptable through all projects and the Croatian Employment Service, but above all, the Ministry of Economy and other ministries make this framework absolutely acceptable. I also want to repeat to you, with all these measures that I have mentioned many times today, for the strengthening of the Croatian economy and for the fact that here are 326 million kunas of this year's budget for small and medium-sized enterprises, you will probably support all the activities that are precisely small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are having a particularly difficult time getting additional support today, but also these models, new models through which, according to the Croatian economy, I repeat once more, will receive up to 10 billion kuna. These projects took time, they needed money, they needed to be freed. I believe you know that in the last year, it was extremely difficult for him, and when we did three budget rebalances, it couldn't have been further released. As soon as this opportunity has appeared, through the cooperation of the Croatian National Bank, the personal banks I also call on to contribute, but also the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Government of the Republic of Croatia invented these models. We went as you heard from Vice-President Pankretić with additional incentives and additional measures to keep jobs for all those companies in the wood-processing industry, and soon, by Easter here you can expect, I hope until Easter or the day after and the whole program for companies that are particularly difficult. I don't know what's funny about that now when you mentioned the literary group then you obviously thought only of the government, but you didn't include yourself. So I'm very serious, Mr. Representative, the times are serious, and they're asking for the cooperation of all of us. So I expect a model for companies that are particularly in serious difficulties, and the cause of these difficulties is not only in crisis and recession. Thank you very much, and once again my sincere congratulations... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49736	Thank you. Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49737	Thank you, Mrs. Kosor, for your sincere congratulations. But I would answer what you did not to me, over 70,000 workers do, and it does not receive salary, and that's an important government issue because taxes and contributions are paid, and until you put in order that those who are obliged to pay those who work, and until you put in order, your budget will not be charged, and today you know the strikes are in the Uljanika shipyards, May 3rd, Osijek-Adriatic brewery... We can talk by tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dalmatia is shaking all over. At the last session, the SDP proposed that non-payment be made to workers, that it be a criminal offence. You refused, you didn't accept. Mr. Hebrang assists and says that, yes, as some do, they don't work and they get paid. That the speciality of the HDZ, Mr. Buljubasic, did not work and paid for it, while 70,000 workers work and do not receive the salary. That's your model. It's that Croatian-specific. And if anyone laughed, I noticed that there was this even Minister Schuker and you had a lot of fun while you thought it was a literary group meeting, and this is about parliamentary representatives asking you what the Croatian public is asking you to answer and that if you don't know you're asking us, we'll tell you what the figures are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49738	Thank you. Please, please. ... This is really a difficult topic, how many people work, and they don't get paid. [[The MPs speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And it's really something very difficult, but if you were petty and malignant, you didn't answer that question either because you said it over some number. The data is when the statistical data is given. Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Stjepan Kundić will ask the next question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49739	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased that this hour we are changing the subject by my question and that I will have the opportunity to take advantage of Mr. Minister of Health and Social Care Darko Milinovic's presence, and ask him a question. In some ways, it is referring to the issues of colleague Caparin, but I will be very brief and the question is: What is the business of the hospital health institutions, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49740	Mr. Vice President and Minister Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49741	Thank you, Mr. President. So if you mean financial business then the hospital's profit is 3,16% higher than in 2009, than in 2008. And if we turn it off, I hope the last recovery by Minister Schuker in 2008 amounting to about 500 million kuna, if that's what we do, then the hospital's revenues have increased by 8.6%. As important as it is, I would like to congratulate this on all the directors who have managed to meet the new challenges, the new conditions of business, how important it is that the hospital health system works well is also the fact that here today and by the end of today, the Croatian health system has provided over a million services. That more than 100,000 patients have passed through the health system of the Republic of Croatia, and most of it is, in fact, one good part refers to hospital institutions, or services provided in hospital health institutions. As for professional indicators, or business conditions, various professional progress in the work of hospitals, we have read a lot about this. And as for the reduction of waiting lists in the hospital healthcare system after the introduction of the national waiting lists they are here, I will mention 2 details, hip surgery and knee surgery we had to wait in Croatia almost 3 years ago, today it is reduced to 6 months. And with the establishment of the National Waiting List carried out through the hospital health system, we had over 10,000 calls to direct patients to other localities of hospitals where waiting lists, where they are gone or where they are almost insignificant. And another piece of information, that hospitals owed about a year and a half ago 2 billion and 600 million kuna, today that debt was cut into about a billion and a half kuna. And finally, the final finding that there is still an important space for rationalization in the business of the hospital health system in the business of 66 hospitals. And that's what this government and the resolution ministry will continue to endure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49742	Thank you. Mr. Stjepan Kundić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49743	Minister, I thank your answer and I am very pleased that our distinguished professors from the hospital institutions on one side and the other hear this information. I'd like to make just one brief comment, since the first day of your performance, I'd dare say to your people how you went into health reform you've had a vision that successfully with a large majority of health workers and you manage to realize it. But I think, especially with your financial part, Mr. Secretary will be very pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49744	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49745	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Ministers, gentlemen and Mrs. Parliamentary Representatives. I will ask the Minister of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity to Mr Tomislav Ivic. The question is short: under what conditions can Croatian defenders from the Homeland War achieve the lowest pension?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49746	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Ivić, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49747	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. In order for the Croatian defender to exercise his right to a minimum pension under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, several conditions need to be met. One of the conditions of age, i.e. the age of at least 65 years for men and 60 years for women, is that it does not meet the requirements of a retirement pension to acquire the right to retirement under the General Retirement Regulation. It will exercise, or it, the right to a minimum pension if it has exercised the right to a disability or family pension which is partially or fully achieved under the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, which is lower than the lowest established by the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences. And it takes a condition of at least 100 days of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and in the fighting sector. Otherwise, the lowest pension is 45% of the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia in the previous year. It is currently 2,270 kuna and in the past year it has achieved the right of 249 Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49748	Thank you. Mr. Angelko Mihalić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49749	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49750	Thank you. It's Mr Zeljko Jovanovic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49751	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, in accordance with your instructions, I'm going to ask a brief and clear question, and hopefully the answer will be equally brief and clear. The question is for the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Mr. Shucker. Mr. Shuker, can you tell us how much the external debt of the Republic of Croatia has increased since you've been Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49752	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49753	Mr. Jovanovic, I, as finance minister, have reduced the stake in the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. And when you talk about the external debt of the Republic of Croatia, then you need to figure out how much it wastes on banks, how much it wastes on the real sector, i.e. The economy, how much it wastes in the population, how much it wastes in the country. If you think that Croatian companies should not be in debt outside and therefore open new production facilities, then open new jobs. If you think that some great maintainers should not be in debt, then you should have told your former and present party friends. Therefore, when you talk about the external debt of the Republic of Croatia, then make it clear exactly what concerns the central state, as regards the public enterprises of the Republic of Croatia, as regards the... sector, as regards the banking sector, with the fact that you need to know that 90% of practically banking assets are foreign-owned banks then we can talk about it. But in a way like this, the way you ask the question, then it's impossible to give an answer, I've given you a concrete answer. So in the foreign debt of the central state, this government has reduced over the past six years. And the other thing, when you're talking about borrowing, then because of the Croatian public and citizens, you need to know why the state is in charge. The state is in charge of covering the deficit, either borrowing or selling the property. And if we were to talk about the deficit last year in the Republic of Croatia then the nominal deficit in 2003 was 4 billion kuna, so much for your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49754	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49755	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm not happy with your answer, and so I'm looking for a written answer and I hope it comes as soon as possible. I remind you that the Croatian external debt is 43 billion euros, since you are the finance minister, has increased by 25 billion euros. In the last month alone, you've owed this overindebted Croatian state 200 million dollars and 6 billion kuna, but you know what's saddest, despite this borrowing, we have 317 thousand unemployed and 73 thousand workers working and not getting paid. Minister Schuker, that's the price of your ministerial incompetence. You are the most expensive finance minister anywhere in the world has any government, but unfortunately the price of your success will be paid by our children, my grandchildren will probably pay the debts you created and you won't be a minister then. I'm glad Mr. Minister you're always smiling, but keep in mind that while you're laughing Croatian citizens are drinking sedatives and antidepressants. But I know what will bring back the smile to the citizens of Croatia, the new elections and the new government without HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49756	Thank you. Let's move on. It is Sunday's representative, Klaric, to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49757	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister with members and members of the Croatian Government and colleagues. I will ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Djurdji Adlesic and this is about violence between children and young people. In fact, Croatia is facing numerous cases of violence between children and young people daily. We are equally aware of the facts and it is evident that these forms and forms are becoming more difficult, increasingly drastic, and a clear message is being sent that our preventive programmes as well as the intervention programmes should be more effective. Likewise, we must be concerned about modern models of abuse and violence between children and young ones. I ask you, Madam Vice-President of the Government, to tell us, as well as the President of the Youth Council, what the Council for Youth, together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, does everything to affect the reduction of violence between children and young people, as I ask you to tell us whether there is indeed an increase in the number, i.e. violence between children and young people, whether it is growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49758	Thank you. Vice-President Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49759	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. I'm glad you asked a question about a problem that really exists and to which the public is rightly sensitized. A few months ago we gathered a quality team of experts from different profiles who worked on measures that should produce results and yesterday these measures were presented at the Youth Council. There was an agreement between the policy and the profession on these measures, and I am glad that we discussed them in detail. I am only sorry that no one was out of opposition, because it really is not a problem that only one political option should be dealt with. As far as the statistics are concerned, I will take advantage of the opportunity to have the latest data from the Ministry of the Interior, which is not in line with the perception that is ruling. Namely, statistics speak of a slight decline, I could say a nearly negligible decline, but there is no growth. I'm talking about a slight decline because we know that there are always some grey numbers that are harder to figure out, but I believe that the methods we're going to be working on from next week, which is field work, we're going to have good results. Next week we'll start working first of all with the principals of primary schools. So, during that period where children are suitable for a more powerful impact on their personality, they will go to field work across all counties, where they will show a rapid need for urgent intervention, too, and the documents on which they still need to work are changes to the strategy and some other similar practical documents work that will take place, because it is as you yourself said, about new forms of violence, about Internet violence, about phones, about new technologies where the parent is again the biggest problem, often because the parent is less educated than his own child and is more difficult to monitor and see all the dangers of happiness. I believe that this particular field work that we've imagined is going to help a little bit, and what's public sensitized is certainly good because it gives a new wind to the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49760	Thank you, Mrs. Sunday Claric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49761	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, I am truly pleased with your answer because it is in fact in agreement with the proposals and conclusions of those governments that have conducted a study of violence between children and young people and who are just recommending that all entities and state institutions be united in action to come to an end in some way with violence between children and young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49762	Thank you. We have two more questions, but I'm asking the MPs to come to the assembly because we're going to have to vote on one point of the agenda very briefly, that we have a quorum anyway. Now it's time for Madam Representative Christmas School. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49763	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will refer my question to the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mr Tomislav Ivic. Dear Ministers, in the Homeland War, Croatian defenders of their family experienced and experienced a lot of stress and, of course, it reflected their health, which many of them will have to deal with their entire lives. So I ask you, is it planned to continue in 2010 to conduct systematic medical examinations for Croatian defenders and members of their families?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49764	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49765	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament MPs, Your Honor, Mrs. Solic. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity will organise medical examinations this year. Otherwise, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a programme in 2007 to improve the quality of life in the families of the dead Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disabled and Croatian defenders of PTSD. Four target groups are covered by medical examinations. These are the wives and children of the dead Croatian defenders, the wives of the most severe military disabled 100% of the first and second groups and wives of the defenders of PTSD and the intention is to systematically monitor the health status of this population, which is assumed to be more endangered than other categories of society. Medical examinations have been carried out in the last two years. In 2008, in the 4 largest cities in the Republic of Croatia, Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek, in the last year, more than 4 thousand people from these target groups passed through 10 counties throughout Croatia and in these two years systematic checks. A public call is currently under way on the basis of which we will select health institutions to conduct systematic checks this year. The funds are secured in the state budget, somewhere around 2.5 million kuna for this purpose. So this year, too, that quality program will be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49766	Thank you. Mrs. Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49767	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I am pleased that you have provided a report on the programmes and on all concerns that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has carried out over the population of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49768	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49769	Dear Mr President, Article 180(3) of our Rules of Procedure says that MPs are asking questions in a way that before that is announced which representative asks a question, who is asked a question, and what will be the area of the question. Mrs. Solic is not scheduled to ask a question, Mr. Djakic is expected. So I ask you how this violates the Rules of Procedure in this way to change the MP if it is a HDZ representative who has the right to ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49770	There is also a decision or possibility of a business being replaced by representatives, but that it should be notified in writing. And in that sense, the club president wrote to the president of the Croatian Parliament yesterday on 16 March, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. "On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Article 180c, the HDZ Representatives Club proposes the next change. At the regular number of 40th, instead of representative Josip Djakic, the minister of the family, defenders, intergenerational solidarity to Mr Tomislav Ivic raises the question of representatives of Santa Solic." 180.c Therefore, everything is in line with the Rules of Procedure and we move on. Mr. Representative Ivan Bogovic will ask the following question, i.e. the last question today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49771	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers and Ministers, members of the Croatian Government, I refer my question to the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mr Tomislav Ivic, and it refers to the persons who participated in the Homeland War if in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia did not achieve the status of defenders. Mr Minister, does the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families that entered into force on 21 November 2009 bring the constitutional inequality of persons who actively participated in the Homeland War in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, who did not reach the status of Croatian defender until the entry into force of the Law on Amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49772	Thank you. Before you answer, Mr. Minister, we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stazic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49773	The article you gave me 180.c says: "Clubs of Representatives for the importance of certain issues are authorized to change the area and order for a maximum of three issues announced by members of that club". Area and order. Nowhere in our Rules of Procedure is the possibility of changing a representative who asks a question. Therefore, this argument of yours was not in line with the Rules of Procedure, as it was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or the procedure that you approved the president of your club to change the representative who asked the question. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure, I think, no, I'm convinced on purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49774	This is all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Article 180.c because an hour before the start, not an hour, but a day, he informed the club's president of the order to ask questions, so it is no longer Djakic's 40th place but Bozica Solic's. You have the right to ask whether this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure if you are dissatisfied with the reasoning of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Now he will answer the asked question, Mr Tomislav Ivic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49775	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor. This law will not violate the constitutional equality of citizens or Croatian defenders, and when the amendment of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences was adopted, it was also a clear explanation that all Croatian defenders had enough time from 14 to 19 years to establish the status of Croatian defender and any rights arising from it. And therefore, they could have done so. Otherwise, when regulating an area, a legislator may also limit the time to apply for the exercise of a right as is the case with this law. Otherwise, I would say a more massive exercise of this right took place in 2006 when the Croatian Defence Fund was founded and when certificates were shared about the shares of Croatian or Croatian Defence Fund and I am convinced that 99.99% of Croatian defenders who had the right to do so have the right and the status of Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49776	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49777	I thank the ministers. I am pleased with the comprehensive answer and I believe that the ones to which this answer applies are also satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49778	Thank you very much. We're done with this in the morning. The government provided written answers to all asked questions in the previous assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49779	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session and debate on 1. Proposal for a Law on payment deadlines for state and public enterprises, the State budget and other state institutions, first reading, P.Z. No. 374 Proposer: A SDP representative club was conducted by the Committee on Law and Finance and the State Budget. Proposer's representative Mr. Slavko Linic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49780	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. If you ask any economics today, which is his biggest problem, the answer will be liquidity and the enormous legal uncertainty of all economic operators related to liquidity problems. Has the liquidity problem grown in the last few months? No, I don't. It is evident that this build up since the second half of 2008 and that it is simply a data that we have less all at our disposal, about the uninterrupted growth of the number of legal entities that are insolvent, the amount of insolvency. But what is the most worrying number of employees working in such companies is growing. And I can't help but remind myself that this law was sent by the SDP Club in a parliamentary procedure in June of last year. Also, the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a reply to this bill in August last year. Which means if we take the gravity of the situation I'd say a huge question that everyone in the economy is asking liquidity, how are we going to solve liquidity, that it was still necessary to discuss that law before. So when the SDP club felt that there was no will to discuss it, that was the reason why we discussed the interpretation at the last session which still has a slightly faster procedure than the law, so that was why the SDP club was when it saw that no legal solutions were going to the interpretation. When you look at the reasons that we cited why this law should be passed, you see that we were concerned with the figures that were moving around around 20 billion total indifference, we warned of movement, but we also gave a very clear indication that a good part of the companies in the majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia did not pay their obligations within the agreed deadlines. At the time of writing this document, the biggest problem was road construction, where simple shopping companies of road construction, means whether Croatian roads, Croatian highways or roads Zagreb-Rijeka did not adjust payment deadlines with agreed deadlines, but that the delays were over 200 days, so the builders had huge problems in fulfilling their obligations, and there was no simple payment. Also last year, when we talked about this big payment problems, they were companies and citizens according to INA, according to HEP, and the non-payment on their part was evident. Unfortunately, we see from the government's response that we disagree on that data in the past year, because the government sent messages that the payment is even in 60 days. And let's just say the INA was only due to the state six months, if not months, only to the state. And not to mention how many other economic operators she's been to. Of course, we cannot without mentioning the shipbuilding, as likely companies owned by the Republic of Croatia with the highest debts and not paying obligations to other commercial companies cooperatives. These are already deadlines that are far and far above 300 days of payment. Thus, many who are successful but are unable to collect their claims are at risk. I would say that when we talk about the insolvency problem, when we talk about liability for defaulting, there are two problems. One relation of the state to companies and another is the relationship of the economic operators themselves. The happiest would be if we could try to find certain solutions to how to solve and the relationship of the subjects in the real sector, meaning the economy to the economies and try to find some discipline there. And when you listen to businessmen, it's a very clear message. They expect the state to intervene, they seriously expect it. Why? At this point, it became clear to all that the insolvency of companies will lead slowly to the liquidation of many legal entities, insolvency. And in that liquidation of certain entities, justifiable fear that companies that are otherwise well-organised will also enter the liquidation, companies that have jobs, companies that also have a positive business, which regularly pay salaries, but unfortunately are unable to collect their claims. When you listen to their leaders, the basic message is the state, and what did you do in the legal system? Why aren't trade courts reacting? Why do disputes run for ten years? Why don't we have a verdict? You, as representatives of the government, are responsible for organising a state to protect us from the legal system. And yes, these are messages that we all need to hear and we cannot accept the fact that justice is not organised in such a way that timely reactions to these processes in the judiciary do not make decisions to protect quality legal entities from those who are bad. Therefore, even more can be done in this legislation, we need to do something else because we simply cannot observe peacefully because irresponsible legal entities do not pay their bills and threaten some quality economic operators who are no longer able to collect their claims. Yeah, that's what we have to do. Unfortunately, in this law, we couldn't deal with it. Why? Our goal was to try first to solve whether by the state, when we talk about the SDP by the state, we don't just think about central government, we also think about regional and local, we do everything we can to implement our obligations in good time. And the analysis shows we're not. Nor do we do this from the level of the budget because the weaker revenue in the budget, it is also evident in 2009 and part of the investment is no longer financed in time, there are no available funds, it starts to be late in payment, we haven't settled what we will do with the debts. And who pays for the problem of a weaker budget charge? They pay companies in the real sector. Unauthorized. This is the practice observed in Europe and the policy-leader in Europe, the European Commission has sent a very clear message. We must bind institutions and authorities and companies where the government is a majority owner that payment deadlines must not be moved regardless of whether the cause is a weaker charge of the budget, whether it is the cause of the crisis, whether it is the cause of the internal weakness or whether I do not know what. And the messages to Europe are clear. The messages in Europe say that it should be paid up to 30 days when the budgetary is concerned, 60 days if they are companies. And that's what we're trying to indicate in this law. If there's anything we want to help the real sector do? It is our obligation to discipline ourselves first, to be responsible in this process to show others how to behave. We have rewritten the rules that are otherwise referred to for the countries of the European Union which we are seeking. True, we haven't defined here what is already defined outside, and the tightening interest and the penalty interest for the lost profits. Therefore, we have tried more to make the government responsible and that the participants who manage are responsible and sanctioned. We went to material damages even though in the second reading if the debate shows it we can really go on to financially depriving the participants to whom we caused the damage because we were not responsible as a government, we were not as responsible as those who manage the segments of the property of the government. We estimate that if the central government and units of local and regional self-government had a legal framework in which we have to pay in due time because the sanctioning of those who have authority and did not do so at that time would not have unreally planned investments because we would settle into real frameworks of budgetary opportunities. On the other hand, we estimate that we would behave differently in the management of companies. What does it mean to be completely different? Well, as an example, I would like to quote now reports that are going into public debate and about the nine-month business of companies in 2009 in the majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia. And nothing better I'd say isn't in local self-government units either. If we observe what we will see as a basic feature? Savings due to recession and crises have not been achieved. Therefore, companies live above the possibilities, above the standards. It's as if the crisis isn't present. You don't care about expenses. Responsibilities for this on administrations and supervisory committees. We have a special conclusion from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that has ordered the extent of the reduction and in the part of the payment of salaries but also in part of the other costs, whether the government's order, the government's decision, has not been implemented. It hasn't been carried out. At the same time is it paid in the deadlines that we propose here? You don't pay in the railroad, you don't pay in HEP, you don't pay in INA, and I won't talk about shipbuilding. Therefore, orders are not carried out. And who pays for this kind of company business? Good work, other real-sector entities that deal with these companies. Their charges exceed 100 to 300 days. The problem is if I can charge the interest at all, because if they do, they'll be on the blacklist, so I can't do business anymore. And at the same time, their problems with paying their employees' personal wages begin. Is this the reason why the government and the law that would refer to this parliament try to lay down basic legal provisions on how to treat these administrations, how to treat these supervisory committees that still account and should account for the government? It is evident that suggestion, order, government decision does not give effect. But in the real sector, we have problems. They can't get to their resources, stop production processes, fire workers. That is why the number of unemployed workers in the real sector employment office is piling up. And I would say that exactly the assessment that we are about to give about the work of companies in the past year where it will be seen that government orders have not been respected, we are very much guided in Parliament that we have to deal with these things by law. At that time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has far stronger and strength and the possibility that supervisory committees and administrations that threaten the liquidity of others in the economic segment can be effective. If you observe analysts in banks, independent analysts, experts in financial business, their assessment is that in this year important liquidity will not be improved. It's not gonna get better. The truth is, in the system, the payment system of the Republic of Croatia we have a significant amount of kuna and obviously the kunas are not a problem. It's really not a problem. What's the problem? Risks. This is why business banking is very difficult to go with the funds they have, so it's not a lack of funds, but with these funds, business banking is not going towards the real sector. It's not going to finance this evil called insolvency. He doesn't invest any extra funds. And that moment the biggest problem that comes up is who's the bad guy, who's gonna fall first. Who is it that will really stop the process of economic activity and move towards bankruptcy and liquidation. It's something the banking system is afraid of, it's something we have to be afraid of. Whether or not those who are not bad but who are threatened by the bad will be lost in this cleansing of the bad, and we, as representatives of the authorities, have done nothing. However, if we are talking about that the cause of non-payment is both by the budget and by the companies, then we are one of those participants in, I would say, liquidating perhaps good economic operators, but who have no way to collect their claims. And this obliges us all to think in the Croatian Parliament whether we can contribute something to change this situation and that businessmen finally realize that there is something that can be done by law to improve the payment system, to greater responsibility in the payment system. The worst thing is if we passively observe and wait for it to get rid of itself. No one in the SDP disputes that certain effects related to large indivisibility will also give measures to the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about the model A and B liquidity financing in the Republic of Croatia. But yet we're very careful in these assessments, we're afraid of more significant changes in that there won't be. We're all afraid that the last data from 27 billion unpaid accounts is that or is even bigger. None of us are optimistic about saying that we're only going to take this amount with these measures back to 20 as early as last year. Just can't change the situation with just one measure. The biggest problem is behavior, and this law is just talking about how to sanction the behaviour of those who manage state budgets, how to sanction the behaviour of those who manage companies in order to in some way and through this vision turn to greater responsibility in the payment system. Why? In this way, we will get to those who are really unable to survive in economic activity and who we need to clean up. And it won't happen to us that they're going to be very good at cleaning up because the bad ones put them at risk. And one more thing. One of the new measures to return employees to the labour system is to move back into investment, to be in some way active in investment. All of us in this way involve entities that are in the realm of energy and we are probably aware that the problem and the railway infrastructure is. Therefore, unless we make an effort to move into these investments, it is difficult to expect that the real sector will be able to enter into investment more significantly in 2010. But are we going to talk about the state of our company? Shall we talk about HEP? He doesn't pay in time, he has a price problem, he has a problem with losses, he has a problem with energy imports. But he has to be an investor tomorrow, he has to invest. Will he be responsible, will he renegotiate business and not pay? Are we going to put someone else at risk again? Well, no one's to blame. There's no law. That's why we propose that law. No, no more investments without funds. In good time, secure loans, repay loans, provide prices in good time, solve social policies for those who can't pay the full price. But vice versa, the one who has to pay the economic price has to pay. That is why we feel that the law is very necessary if we want to go into some investment in this risky time. Are we gonna talk about INA? Again, he doesn't pay in time, he doesn't pay the contractors for the individual investments they're going to, but I wouldn't tell the companies where they do their regular work, and we expect again investment from that INA. And will we take care of sanctioning such a thing I would say to the irresponsible behaviour of supervisory committees and administrations? Yeah, we should. We should take good care of that part. The infrastructure in the railroad is hardly something we can talk about. Hardly. These are the funds we need to secure from the budget. Eventually, I would say to cut budget expenditure through certain European Union funds that will very much go towards rail infrastructure. But it is evident that we need to separate this from what it means to be responsible for the administration and supervisory board for structural changes, to take care of the numbers potentially overnumbered in the railways, for the irrational business. It's all something we just have to have responsible people's answers to. And why is that? To avoid jeopardising business companies, which will work on investments. In the SDP club, we believe that the work of the Croatian Parliament to try to sanction by law would be the responsibility of people who do not understand how serious it is for the state and state institutions to be responsible in the payment system because it is a danger to destroy quality companies and to be the cause of those who fire workers and send them to the Employment Office. However, since we have been waiting for a year, I apologize, for a little less than 9 months we wait for the debate on this law to realize that in the second reading we are able to offer, I would say material damages which we have not now covered by this law to try precisely through material damages to those to whom we have done harm to return some of the funds to them and that, at that moment, we understand that in the Croatian Parliament we want to really be responsible and to remove at least the causes of indifference from our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49781	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, chairman of the board, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49782	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 41st session held on 14 October 2009 the draft law on payment deadlines for state and public enterprises, the state budget and other state institutions, as a parent body. Introductory representatives of the SDP's club explained and warned about the problem of liquidity in the Croatian economy of default and that this is one of the biggest problems of the Croatian economy. Also, because of the failure to comply with these obligations, internal indifference has been indicated even at the time saying 15 billion kunas and payment deadlines are not only not to be respected but also to be extended. This bill proposes that state and public enterprises and companies with at least 25% of the share of the state pay and subscribe to their obligations within 60 days, while state budget and citizens, other institutions within 30 days as it has been pointed out that in the European Union the directive regulates payment or the problem of liquidity and mutually regulated payment between Member States. In particular, the debate shows that Croatia has a major impact on the indivisibility of money, and this is an unintended use of the craftsmanship of certain companies that do not use their crafts to settle their obligations, but invests them in other forms, in other jobs, not purposefully spend in other ways or even buy new businesses or invest in shares of other companies. Therefore, the problem of financial indiscipline is identified as the main cause of indifference and that this should be fully dealt with legally rather than partially. In the debate on the Committee, the opinion supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's view that this draft law is not accepted and that it does not propose solutions that have not already been discussed, and that it is covered by a series of activities and measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the applicable legal rules, and it is pointed out in particular that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made positive moves with regard to the rationalisation of business and orderly service of the obligations of certain public companies, i.e. companies in majority state ownership. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority vote 5 for and 3 against, 1 abstention to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion that no draft law on payment deadlines for state and public enterprises, the state budget and other state institutions proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club to the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49783	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49784	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a few words about the bill. So, as the honourable representative introduced and said by proposing the law, the government was obvious to this bill. However, it has been a long time since your proposals and of course the obvious. But I think the topic is current. I would like to touch very briefly what the Government has stated in its obvious and, among other things, that, in any case, what is proposed is also contained in the existing legislation, above all, in the Law on Mandatory Relations and in some related, in particular, in that part of Article 10 of the proposed law concerning public procurement procedures as set out in the Public Procurement Act. So there's one we can say so formal-law problem that that kind of change we couldn't even implement through this kind of law. However, what is also important to say let me mention actually three segments that we have heard about and I believe that certain things can be actually best spoken of with numbers and facts to support that. So, one segment is these public enterprises that we mentioned and are actually one of the subjects in this bill. So 22 public companies, as we keep them, are doing records. The 22 largest public enterprises in the past year, so within those measures the government has taken, in the first half has stepped up in the second half of the year. The total planned amount of savings at the level of all these companies was about a billion and a half kuna by the end of the year. The amount of savings achieved is also exceeded. A billion, nearly a billion and 800 million kuna savings have been reached, which we can certainly say is one good indicator especially for certain public enterprises is more visible than planned. As far as their payment deadlines are concerned, you watch all of those 22 companies on average, i.e. average payment deadlines are at 57 days. Of course, what should be apostrophe that there are some of them that exceed that 60, above all there are already mentioned Croatian roads and Croatian highways, however, it should be noted that during 2009 it was actually a direct consequence of the delay in paying the INA, or its debts to those two companies. At the same time, we have a case with HEP, I think we've talked about it several times, and in the assembly, on HEP at the same time, there's a problem in terms of the collection of its claims which from the public, which is also a particular one, of course we can say such a problem about HEP's business, and that's only related to the price of electricity, or what in some way creates certain difficulties for that public enterprise. All in all when I say that there are certain problems we must not at all, I say once again leave out this progress that has definitely been made, and you have heard after a session of the Government and the announcements that we expect from these same public companies, therefore as a result and these rationalizations in business, we expect even greater and stronger progress not only in terms of savings, because what we asked them for were savings on those items that are not really necessary in these times to create a certain space for, above all not just regular and normal functioning, but also a certain investment activity. Something that must go and be compatible with the measures that the Government has taken, focused and facing the private sector, is actually a public sector, i.e. public enterprises make one additional contribution in order to generally and overall investment activity in the Republic of Croatia, and thus economic growth during 2010. The second segment that would certainly mention is the state budget, paying for the implementation of the state budget, of course, is certainly one of the most important points that otherwise this esteemed House and debates, and is always in the focus of our interest of all therefore in the Republic of Croatia. What should certainly be said is both preliminary data and speaking indicators, starting from the level of the state budget and to the local state. At this point, we do not have all the data related to the local state, but the 2009 budget was achieved within the planned framework, which means that what was to be paid, so on the cost side of the budget, was implemented. That small part of the expenditure that we explained from the Ministry of Finance, which is followed by a certain purely liquid situation from the end of the year was transferred to the beginning of January, and you know for yourself that there is only one part of the Christmas payment left. And the third segment is certainly something that we in the government are actually very important and very important, and that is generally a system of liquidity and payment throughout the economy. I think here, and here's the esteemed representative who introduced it, and I'm glad to hear it from theirs, on the side of the strongest opposition party, is actually expecting some positive shifts, first of all from these models A and B funding. In particular, it would be an apostrophe of this particular model A that we've already started with, which is, among other things, focused on how we said financing and increased movement activity for this so-called. crafts, under which we actually mean as one broad term between the other and the service of certain debts, according to suppliers, creditors, and ultimately we have to say to the state, of course you remember that in presenting these models we said with certain limits to a certain percentage. All in all here let me say in the end no matter what time the bill passed, I think what is even more important is that the government, in fact, I wouldn't say in any way, with due respect for the bill, stalled with the answer, but rather, what I think is very important to all of us and more importantly that it has taken certain measures, that some progress is already seen, that certain conditions of what we are always saying are created. So if we're looking at the situation now, if we're saying there's more liquidity than satisfactory in the financial system, it certainly wasn't just created overnight. It is the result, among other things, of all these measures that we took during 2009 and in terms of the state budget, and of public enterprises, and we have actually come into this situation so that we can think about such more proactive measures, measures that will be directed at channelling and liquidity from the financial system exactly according to the real sector which, however, I think we will all agree under these conditions should still be the main driver, is the only one who can actually create the most of these added values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49785	Thank you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Government delivered an opinion in relation to this draft law of the SDP Club of Representatives, paragraph 110, the Government requested opinions and proposals of the Government in cases where it did not propose the Government is obliged to deliver to the Parliament. That's what she delivered. That's the government's opinion. Vice-President Ingrid Antičević Marinovic raised the plate. Here's a word to correct, to correct an incorrect quote. It will be very interesting now how you'll get out of this situation that you've raised a plate to correct an incorrect quote, and it's an opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49786	Mr. Expensive Secretary has determined and it is incorrect that state-owned companies have achieved significant savings. That's just not true. That this is not true and that I am correcting such an incorrect quote, desperate letters from employees speak of it. So they're looking at an example not to save, maybe a little less stealing, but in no case can we say it's about savings. In fact, these companies are examples of how innhouses of people's property. Here's to HEP how it got saved. How many apartments were bought, at which price people speak by name and last name. For example, an apartment was purchased recently from a million and 426 million kuna, in order to be sold to a HEP employee Anti Matijević for a price less than 428 thousand kuna, and you are talking about savings, and in HEP it was employed, i.e. in Croatia, a new 3 hundred thousand people were employed, among them a boxer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49787	That was, the government delivered, colleagues of Anticevic, their opinion. You were correcting the government's opinion, writing an opinion. ... No, you can't. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You've failedly escaped from this trap. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It was a legally inappropriate attempt, failed an inappropriate attempt because you were correcting the government's opinion. Positions expressed in the opinion of the Government. What was timely when there was a dispute about whether it could be when the club representatives presented to his representative that something the club considered, so he was reluctant that this could not be corrected by the incorrect allegations. And now it was the government's opinion, and now it looks like it. ... How could you not? This is the government's opinion. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's the government's opinion delivered by the Secretary of State. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, it says here. ... Well, I see you don't mind, yes. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's also very difficult, but it can be done. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] About that so much, that so much about it. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative's club, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49788	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. As we were already making the 2009 State Budget, we actually came up with the first proposals for anti-recession measures that we have translated into laws with the intention to open up the issue of how to solve the crisis that was already evident before we discussed the 2009 Budget proposal. However, this attempt did not bear fruit. The budget was passed, we only discussed these initial laws after a few months. However, this did not discourage us, as our Prime Minister would say, we continued to go with proposals that were part of the legislative proposal, and part of it was an interpretation of the work of the government that actually ended up with certain conclusions that should be done in individual cases. The government admitted that we were only in crisis in February when it brought in those 10 known, a package of 10 anti-recession measures and one of them under number 3 was this particular fight against indifference. We were pleased that the government also saw this problem, however, assessing that from February to April when it was the ninth continuous growth in the pay system we also came out with the bill we put in the procedure in June last year. So, out of these 10 anti-recession measures, including the fight against indifference, he received his operationalisation in one part that we also supported and on behalf of his proposing colleague Linic talked about it, so it took 13 months for us to do something concrete, and through these 2 lending models there will certainly be some shifts regarding the reduction of indifference. In her opinion, the government said that it had taken everything and that now it was all in some normal time. But it's not like that. If we go to observe only over 3 periods how liquidity data is published in the system, then we recorded 16.2 billion kunas of blocked accounts in April. Already in July, it was 18.2 billion, and the latest data released for December, which is 18 months in a row, as indifference has been reported, 27.1 billion kunas of unpaid bills. But it's not definitive information because we already said that when we explained our interpretation, it's just those obligations that are recorded in blocked accounts. How much unpaid mutual obligations between creditors and debtors are, in fact, difficult to assess, given that where business is still under way, there is no complaints, and then such unpaid claims are not even recorded. The problems and consequences of indifference can be identified with the problems and consequences of corruption. In fact, the fight against indifference should also be harsh and ruthless toward those who bring disorder into the payment system. It is particularly dangerous when those who have funds in their account do not pay, nor do they comply with their obligations to the believers, and they usually do not pay their salaries to their workers. Long-term and high liquidity in Croatia as it has not been recorded in the last 10 years. We still remember that difficult situation, the financial situation in the payment system at the end of '99. A year. It was then solved according to a particular model, then earned, or registered, 23 billion kunas sought by the state. You remember we also passed a special settlement law. This situation also has a direct impact on the reduction of economic activity. An increase in payment deadlines actually puts a mess into the payment system, and such phenomena endanger those who are active and able to continue their business. It is certain that, in part, economic problems also bring about a crisis that we say is not only due to the global economic crisis that has affected the world but also to the very system and structure of our economy. That both state and state companies played an active role in this, as well as data on the debts that were at the time when we passed the law. So, only the Ministry of Finance announced that at the end of June were the debts of state-owned companies that they were tracking were 11 billion kuna. It is impossible that only in a few months when the government gave, in the 5th month when the government gave the opinion that such a large amount of debt could have been made by state-owned companies in some normal contexts. The problem of non-payment affects not only the level of income and income in companies, it also affects employment. So in nine months, our company in the real sector recorded a decline in gross profits of as much as 30%. What happens to employment doesn't even have to talk. In January 2010 compared to January 2009, we have less 8.7% of employees, and only compared to December last year was 3% less employees recorded in January. Unemployment is growing rapidly and we haven't actually done anything to reduce unemployment. In January, as compared to December, the number of unemployed in the Employment Office increased by as much as 16 thousand. According to some estimates, although the Croatian Employment Institute has so far published data on the state of unemployment at the end of the month, it has failed this time, and estimates are that the figure is more than 317 thousand. If we include about 73 thousand more who work in non-payable companies or get paid messyly, we actually come up with a huge number of people who don't have regular incomes. So, surely indifference has an impact on business, with 9 months of our company's surplus income of about a little less than 22 billion kuna, I already said it was 30% less than it was in the period last year. This is influenced by a significant part and by the structure in which trade, processing industry, construction, is dominated, however, they are also leading activities when it comes to those who are the biggest debtors. We have a decrease in production by almost 10%, we have a trade down to a little over 16%, a decrease in construction works by about 4%. So, there's no real salary growth and after the introduction of so-called Crisis tax or special salary tax actually fell. In order for the state to be a role model for its companies when it comes to defaulting obligations, this should be a normal thing. The state should be an example of how it collects its claims, however, concerns the fact that the state is currently seeking nearly 11 billion kunas, so-called. Public donations. This means that it doesn't react in time, and when it doesn't respond in time to such a company that doesn't pay obligations to its creditors, it's also a state, you're actually making it harder and harder, and it comes to a situation where in the end it's not possible to do business, in that way we're actually losing economic operators. THAT the problem of insolvency and insolvency is present in other countries, not only in Croatia, it is a fact, however, in the European Union itself, the European Union itself as an association, and individual members, take different measures to resolve individence and insolvency, and I will list only one part of how it is regulated through so-called “insolvency and insolvency”. Directive on the fight against late payment, that is Directive 2000/35. which was adopted in 2000, and its changes were in last year. Among other things, they establish the obligation to pay within 30 days the authorities of the state, state and all undertakings in the state and local units as a rule. It undertakes that the judgment for the undisputed sued claims must be made within 90 days, not for years, as is happening in Croatia. This directive also determines the amount of interest, this case 7%, since interest is otherwise lower, from the first day after the maturity and the obligation and recovery compensation, so if it is late in payment, in the amount of 10% of the total amount of the claim. The aim of these measures is to improve the cash flow particularly in terms of slowing economic growth, and most of the European Union's countries have in fact turned this directive into a law on financial operations, and this law also provides for a way to regulate forced collection, enforcement and bankruptcy. So we're not saying that it's something that only happens in Croatia, but the way we actually stare and let this problem escalate is unacceptable. That is why we started with such a law that would first regulate payment deadlines relating to state and state-owned enterprises and sanctions that should be lodged by those who manage the state budget, those who manage state-owned enterprises, but also by obligations and sanctions for those who oversee such institutions and businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49789	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Goran Maric's Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49790	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is indisputable that banking is a blood flow of the economy, and the cancer of the economy is an indifference and that all efforts need to be directed to eliminate liquidity in our economy. But for the adoption of measures, to take any action to combat indifference, a genesis and an analysis of indifference should be carried out. Why the gene? Because indifference has not occurred since yesterday, nor has it appeared in Croatia only during the time of the global economic crisis. She's pulling her roots all the way from conversion and privatisation. They are complex and complex reasons for non-equivalence in Croatia, starting with managerial loans from taking over companies and becoming property without paying off shares, and then by means of these same companies the shares were paid off, and managers increased their salaries to also pay off shares in their own name. All of this affected the fact that the trade assets that should be used for business and exclusively for business are spent on other purposes. And that's why they didn't even comply with their business partners, the state, the state institutions. There's a start, later that escalated in '98, '99. the years when indifference was more pronounced than today, even at the time of this world's greatest economic crisis. Why do I say that an analysis needs to be carried out? Well, because today, regardless of this exact data and Mrs. Zgrebec, what she has now said is very objectively some happenings in both the world and us about blocked outstanding obligations, about recorded outstanding obligations, but we still don't know the real state of outstanding accounts and liabilities. Until this is determined, it is impossible to measure and bring and we still do not know how much the company owes and has outstanding obligations. And that should be done, it really should, if we want to, the Employers' Association is very often giving initiatives, and this is exactly what those initiatives could do because we disagree and I do not personally agree that the state is the generator of inequitableness in Croatia. It is true that even in the government's view it is evident that the state has reduced payment deadlines in 22 companies, that they have even led up to 60 days to cut short, that there is a savings of 2 billion. But you don't know how much the company owes to another company, how much it owes to the state and how many states it owes beyond maturity. For the debt is every outstanding account beyond the term of maturity, after the expiry of the term of maturity. And, of course, if we did such an analysis, and I think we should have it, to get a completely different picture and image than we do now, based on some partial knowledge, not full knowledge, so we'd see who's the biggest believer who's the biggest debtor, so we'd see what money and spending is in. A colleague, Linic, said here that shipbuilding cooperatives are looking. Shipbuilding cooperatives are doing one-third of the total work in the shipyards, and two-thirds of the work is being done by the shipyards themselves. Co-operatives charge two-thirds of the total in shipbuilding, while shipyards charge one-third and co-operatives have the highest profit of all entrepreneurs in Croatia compared to the number of employees and have no outstanding claims. They were almost the safest in Croatia so far. It is true that when state companies pay the amount and service to a large company in Croatia, then the company does not meet its obligations to its cooperatives. So it comes to the conclusion that, for example, HEP did not pay. And what you're doing with the money, that should be questioned. Here's the latest case of the Pevec, a billion and 600 million kuna debt, and in bankruptcy it ended. The money wasn't gone, it was just a waste. They made no commitment to the believers, but who knows what purpose everything was spent. I know, but I'm not going to be here in detail. Today, when the situation in Croatia is such that you have a 7% interest on deposits, it does not stimulate those who have a market position not to pay their obligation to their supplier, but rather to keep the funds temporarily at the banks, earn and create liquidity. And then when it reaches the limit, they settle on condition that the believers can't account for the interest. And if they wish to pay the interest, then their business relationship will be broken, and they will not cooperate with them. Because that gives them a market position. How, for example, the wine producer will neatly settle all his obligations to the state, to the employee, to his suppliers if he is to expose and sell his wines at the mall, he has to pay 100 thousand kuna per wine type for the management of the shelves and must then account for his rebate 45%, and even finds out later that he is not only a rebate, but also the margin of the trader further. It's known that in a store it can be either a rhubarb or a margin. But there's a situation where both the margins and the rebate charge, and then the wine that costs at the manufacturer delivers it to 30 kunas to the trader, that trader sells it for 97 kuna, along with the big sign "Great Discount". So that it would be a price if it weren't for action and reduction. How these extraordinary expenditures will be paid by a producer who is not usual in business if he has to pay those extraordinary expenses, of course, that he will not be able to pay other obligations in another place and pay his employees. It is therefore important to identify in detail the situation and the causes of indifference. Long-term indifference is not good, and it needs to be resolved, resolved. But we also had the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is clear that if we analyse claims from employers and legal persons and natural persons, and the debt of the state, then the state could properly settle its obligations that it was not and there was also an economic crisis and not. Some employers do not pay their commitments during this economic crisis, save at banks, buy other businesses, buy shares in other companies because they have such a market position. They're usually big and they have a pretty comfortable position on the market. These measures aimed at improving liquidity are not at all controversial, they are also receiving certain results. We told 22 companies to settle their obligations within 60 days. The SDP proposal that all state-owned companies and public and state-owned enterprises have more than 25% to meet their commitments within 60 days and that the state budget is being reconciled by other state-owned institutions within 30 days is a partial solution. This would be good if the Mandatory Relations Act were to operate and the Mandatory Relations Act defines the mutual payment between legal persons and natural persons Article 173 to 175, which gives each other free settlement on the market of payment deadlines, and as they do, so it is understood and, if they do not, it seems to me that it is worth 30 days of payment. And it is obvious that the Law on Mandatory Relations so defined has not obtained the desired results and that it is necessary in this direction to seek improvements in the legal frameworks. Because what it means is that when someone contracts, for example, here's one thing I'm going to tell you. On the basis of the offer, there is a conclusion of a contract between a large company and a mediocre contractor and a payment period of 60 days is agreed. That's the offer, the offer is accepted. After accepting the offer comes the contract signed but with a hand-crossed 60 days and writes 180 days. Unfortunately, we have such employers and this is already writing business immorality and we are still at a very low level of business morality in Croatia. And that's where we have to work most. An entrepreneur, a true entrepreneur, does not need to be forced or constrained by law, he settles his obligations in time because it is his obligation and duty, and so does he. But unfortunately, entrepreneurship has gotten in the way of everything. An entrepreneur by definition is only one who distributes his own capital and risks his savings and personal capital and disposing of foreign capital is not entrepreneurship. That's why those who distribute other people's capital behave so irresponsiblely. The HDZ Club does not accept such a partial solution because the government has already taken action in this regard, but it certainly needs to consider a complete solution to the indifference in the Republic of Croatia because it is of national interest to the economy and thus also to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49791	Thank you. The club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49792	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. At the beginning, I will say that the Croatian People's Party club also supports this partial solution in the fight against individence but at the same time, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, I must and will not say regret, I will not say or protest, but I will say one fact that the Croatian People's Party sent to this Assembly nine months ago also one law called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, which deals in a very effective way with the issue of paying public companies and contracting authorities. However, unlike this law, a colleague from the SDP club who still got a chance to discuss it in the Assembly and about the same time we let them into the procedure about ten days later of yours from ours but ours still kept one firm and very stable 24th position, still. Therefore, the conclusion is very simple. We're afraid to argue, we're literally afraid to argue. The government has set itself as negatively as anyone, but literally every opposition proposal so far. It's been determined by that, too. On the Committee on Economy, when I defended the proposal on behalf of the promoter, even some members of the board were embarrassed to raise their hands against it because it is too logical and obvious that, thanks to business opportunities, the government simply does not allow the debate on our proposal to be opened because it is too logical. And you really need to have arguments and say why this law is wrong. He's very simple. I'll say it right away, very simple. The public service provider shall also issue a payment guarantee when making a contract with the selected contractor or service provider. Is that the bond, is that something else doesn't matter at all, we know who they are. So I'm going to build something, I'm going to do something, I'm going to do something, I'm going to do a budget, I'm going to do a budget, I'm going to have a budget, logic talks and responsibility says that both these funds are kind of dynamic and on account, and I don't see any reason why I don't give as a confirmation of honorary words I'm going to pay you, why not give you a collection instrument. Although the supplier of goods or services at the time of the opportunity to charge for the delivery of his goods and services, by means of that instrument to charge for it and I don't see what the problem is, I really don't get it. I really don't get it. There's another thing about that law that limits, maybe that's why we don't open the debate. You can't go to public procurement unless you settle your old debts. And none of us, none of us responsible in any household personally, responsible entrepreneur, are talking about those mentioned earlier by colleagues Maric, are responsible entrepreneurs... No procurement if there is no means. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't see why a public partner, a public company, a municipality, a city, a county and a state wouldn't follow that elementary rule of decency, which is that it doesn't go into further procurement until it has solved the old one. Or there's no funds secured by that dynamic that's scheduled. Here, these two things our law predicts, nothing new. New Zealand has introduced such an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, they have solved the uncertainty of the moment and every responsible state with combinations and these proposals offered by colleagues from the SDP and this proposal we offer has solved the problem of indifference, which indifference is the generator of the public partner, the contracting authority. But they made a decision let's go what's cancer in the system, liquidity flow, let's cut it up and they cut it down, at least with the accepted... The more colleagues offer the first reading, the more they offer the emergency procedure, the more they offer the first reading, 'let's open the debate, let's say what's wrong, let's suggest if we're all determined that indifference is a problem, that in a system where an entrepreneur has to pay for someone to pay him, and I'm talking about a zero corruption rate, I don't see what the problem is and why we don't let it go and why we're two-faced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just don't get it. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party club will expect that our Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act will finally get an opportunity to discuss it even in the latest hours of the night. I'm sure he won't get a chance in the mornings when it's a TV broadcast, but be it at the latest of the night but he's not waiting another nine months like we're waiting for nine months to come or get on the agenda. And we will support this SDP colleague proposal, which is quite thorough and solves a whole series of segments, solves what is also called the management and supervisory board and the entire system that monitors the business of public enterprises, but we want to say a few more things. In fact, I totally agree with my colleague Marić that we should do both a gene and an analysis of why and why we have so much indifference, why and why all these years we have so much indifference, why and why we had '99. A huge number of years, so something happened by 2003, which cut that amount in half, and now something's happened, which brings us back to the total amount of outstanding liabilities that we had in the end of '99. It's a fact, you know, and we know for sure that we need to do an analysis and see what and why and what the problem is. But with one thing I believe we will all agree together, that in one segment that is not small, that 50% of all that is created in this country is the public spending that the state has. Yeah, 15% of GDP goes to local and regional self-government. So, in which area of one importance, I'm not going to say the greatest, I'm not going to say the hardest, but one of the significant sources of indifference is definitely the budget. The budget that has a deficit year by year, the budget that we collect by borrowing from year to year, the budget in which we spend, we produce less than we spend, so we've come to now 47 billion euros in total debt, all together, certainly says there's no money. I'm sure he's saying he doesn't have any money because public companies are also alimony from those positions. I'm not going to mention a voluntary decision to change the course so this route collects for 500, 600 million, the highway route, it collects 500, 600 million total value of the works and surely that 500, 600 million are missing somewhere without a public tender, without public procurement done, or it's playing with electricity purchases over a billion. I'm sure it's missing somewhere. It's gone. So as long as we don't get into the situation that we're all talking about and there's responsibility in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as long as we don't get into a situation where we spend as much as we have, it'll be absolutely safe and almost safe without this cosmetics that's at 2 billion. I'm asking what they were doing before the Prime Minister's intervention managed to save two billion. And what they were doing before or even how much that spending was like a drunk millionaire if in a relatively short time they managed to save 2 billion. So times a year, very clear where we are. We at the Croatian People's Party club believe that in this segment, at the end of the end of the term, the Prime Minister announced harsh and urgent measures to cut spending, in bringing the state budget down into real frameworks, bringing down the state budget to cover expenditures. We expect that these emergency measures will soon yield results. It will certainly have an impact on public companies, because the real sector is definitely, problems in the real sector definitely, not in a 100% amount, but in a huge amount, so that we don't bid on numbers now and that we don't correct ourselves with numbers. But the real sector in a huge amount, in an enormous percentage, is inequitable only thanks to business with public enterprises and almost 50%... working in this country is done through public companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there should be no specific analysis, but a clear and loud statement of what we all know only in a different way to interpret. And I think that this government opinion on this SDP proposal, and even on our proposal to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act, is that it's pretty unconvincing, and I'm not going to use those other words because we all know them. The fact that in 10 years we only invested 22 billion in agriculture, over 22 billion incentives. We have agricultural production at the level of the 1990s. So that money is missing. He's gone. The fact that we've invested in shipbuilding, I don't know how much, huge. But in the coming time, we're going to have to pay back at least 10 billion, minimum 10 billion. And it's also exactly what my colleague Maric said. One-third of the ship is the hands of a cooperative, two-thirds of the ship is the money of a cooperative. That's right. But who's to blame? Administrations, administrations, administrations and monitoring boards, shipyards. And there's the responsibility of the state besides responsibility when we talk about budget and deficit. We support the new deal announced by the Prime Minister. However, it is very clear that there is no new deal. Public enterprises have defined everything they have, what they do every year. Public enterprises have defined simply everything they do this year and they say that's 15 billion. However, who will manage the 15 billion. Who? Which administration? The ones that public companies have put into the situation they are in. Come on, there's a part in Remetic, so there's no fear. And there's the government's responsibility. So, if we really want to, if we really want to, if we really want to get caught in a fight without a fig in our pocket, in the fight with liquidity, gentlemen, let's just accept the first reading. By the second reading let's add suggestions and in culmination with this don't hold our proposal for another 9 months. I know you won't accept it. But let's open up a debate, see what the arguments are. Well, I don't want to just believe that the opposition has no arguments. If we don't, we want to hear yours. And to hear yours, let us have our proposal in the debate, not to wait nine months. The system of indifference certainly has a whole series of negative things. But I'll say it one more time, but one situation that brings an entrepreneur to pay for what he did fairly and responsibly and earned. I think it is not correct and if nothing else and therefore should accept this proposal in the first reading, so let's see what quality and constructive remarks and supplements we can do and that, truly, without a fig in the pocket, all of us here together in this assembly the Government of the Republic of Croatia is dealing with inequity, and we know that indifference I will say once more metastasis in the blood stream, in the liquidity of the entire society.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49793	Thank you. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49794	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here I was, as a man of natural science, not thinking of going into these economic and economic discussions. But I have to say, this reminds me quite a bit of what Mr. Goran Maric used to say, what we sometimes call in medicine or find as a food chain. The food chain that starts with, therefore, these as the title of the law itself, so state and public enterprises, the state budget and other state institutions that are at the top, and then we have cooperatives, performers, subcontractors and indeed these food chain link can be the worst or the weakest link at any of these degrees or segments. And clearly, if that non-payment we're talking about gets stuck at any of these degrees, then we have an indifference. What's the problem? The problem was clearly manifested in Croatian society, in the Croatian state but it is clear that the problem of indifference is in synergy or in symbiosis precisely with corruption. If an entrepreneur has to pay to get paid as soon as possible or in due time or at least in some foreseeable time, then it is clearly called corruption, and indifference is actually the source of corruption of that kind. There are various types of corruption, but this is also one of corruption. So, as it is already said here that cooperatives that are, say, shipyards, and there are other systems that have cooperatives. It's not just, there's not just a shipyard that doesn't have co-operatives. It has a mass of other systems from HEP, Croatian roads, Croatian forests, railways etc. which divided the railways, so into more companies. It also has its own reasons which are rather suspicious and smell a bit strange. So, co-operatives who perform one-third of the physical scope of the job end up with a two-thirds of the money, two-thirds of the investment, two-thirds of the investment. I was invited to this debate by the secretary of state that the savings were back, say, for 8 months, as the prime minister at the head of the government is worth 2 billion kuna. It's a good thing, but I have to say that there are a series of systems that haven't actually been scratched and where you can find pretty big funds unless someone cares to look and look. Here's a report on the 2008 State Audit for the Pension Fund, which he received, so this report received an impeccable assessment as it is said, as you say the unconditional assessment, has a nice item saying that the non-performing payments for 2008 were 105 million kuna. Then it's explained, but somehow I don't want to say in small words what it's like to pay off, so it's either come out or found out if it's better to look at the materials that some pensioners who have long since left this world rest their souls and continue to receive and up to six years after their retirement. Or those who took a family pension and finished school and continued to receive a family pension neatly, and passed 26, 27, 28 years, for years. For 2008 or those banks that receive therefore from pensioners under the pensioner's title, and it is gone, so a total of these non-retired pensions in 2008 paid 105m kuna or 15m euros. Has anyone scratched for it in this country, has anyone looked at it? The review, the assessment impeccable or as Linic said unconditionally. Who was on the board of supervisors, who was the minister who cared about the intergenerational one, I don't know what solidarity, family, defenders, etc. Is anyone there pointing their finger at that? As far as I know, she was the prime minister back in 2008, and today the minister was the chairman of the supervisory board who inherited the prime minister as minister. I'm not pointing a finger at anyone, but Mr. Secretary of State, look for those 105 million kunas that are in the process, which are supposed to be slowly returning something, but very, very slowly. And don't we have a computer? Is it... so many employees of these state and public services that it had to happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't death cases occur in the home offices when someone dies, you fly in the second day to report it. And yet, in addition to technology, technology, powerful officials, this kind of thing happens in our country. And then we're inequitable. What's the time limit for paying our hospitals to suppliers? Does anyone know here? A year, 365 days, a year, and that's a legal thing. Almost legal, almost normal. And why is that normal? Well, they don't object to high-end drugs because of that 365-day payment deadline. Well, it's in her favor. They immediately count the margin counting that it will be paid in a year and then our medicine here is more expensive than it is in Switzerland. And why is that? Well, because whoever's selling is already involved in the country's 30, 40% more expensive drug. And couldn't it have been possible to call these big drugstores, so tell them how much we owe you four billion kunas, it seems to me, three and a half, sort of, let's get it straight, because you've got prices, give real prices, two and a half billion as much as it takes, I know they're gone now... It's clear to me, but there were days when that money was, and now we're going to pay you every drug in 60 days, every supply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this case the price of suppliers would also fall, the price of drugs from wholesalers would fall. Unfortunately, that's not the case, and then he says indifference. Well, of course. Well, who's to say there's indifference? He discussed Mr. Maric very well the other day and about the loans, about the payment of HBOR funds to commercial banks, about interest of 2 and a half percent, so later on in the field in Slavonski Brod, in the county I heard that then, I won't say which bank because it's not the place for me to say that, I still got a 3 and a half margin. So then the interest HBOR gives 2 and a half percent 6%, 2 and a half plus 3 and a half is 6, so that's the same thing. And then says our tractors, the peasants went out on the roads, etc., I can't repay the loans. So I can't repay the loans. Companies affected by this to tell general indifference are exchanging goods as the original community. I know the case here from a closer point of view to saying family that deals, a man who deals in beer sales, a second-hand beer, then changes that beer, doesn't sell money, but in Djakovština, or in Djakova, he trades for jack's riesling, so he sells risling, if he doesn't have the right to sell wine, but that's different somewhere, as it's called, the economic or otherwise. Good to... Or I don't know why I don't know why he can't just sort out this stuff that he just can't get the money for and he can't get the money and he's got that beer, and I don't know who. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So one general confusion, one financial indiscipline and one as Mr. Maric said and I agree with that one total business immorality in business. As if, I don't know how to compare myself to a country, somewhere in the far east of Malaysia is a tiger, but I'm kind of saying that former Prime Minister Sanader said bananas, not a corn state where he does whatever he wants, pays whoever he wants, etc. Indeed, the time has come, the SDP proposal, and if it is partial as they have said, and these participants of the debate before me, it is for me to accept it, but if the first reading can also enter there the proposals and amendments and amendments and additions and other clubs of council members and individuals, so when we work on a common good to make one really law that will change this picture of Croatia on this individence issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49795	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49796	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed dear secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. This proposal of the law on payment deadlines for state and public enterprises of the state budget and other state institutions is an attempt to end the largest non-majority in Croatia, i.e. that indifference, and when the bauk, when the bogeyman of indifference over Croatia, was warned a few years ago. Of course we were ignored. And now it is essentially a question, the state owes, or state-owned companies, its companies owe to natural and legal persons. Physical and legal persons owe it to the state, and now the question is, who started it first? So, like a child's game. However, the basic question is how do state firms normally behave? Is it true that state-owned companies have gone to corruption and crime, places where they're not talking about the zero point of corruption, but corruption with a lot of zeros? Are they an example of how pubs remain state property? Is that really what this is about and why it is? The fact is that who are members of the boards of directors and supervisors and it is clear that the HDZ Club, or HDZ in general, does not want to hear about the modern economic incrimination that was designed to call first on the responsibility of members of the boards of directors and supervisors without the possibility of defence I did not know. I didn't know her by that incrimination confession, but that's not an option but here's an eighth or a full seven years. Namely, a mistake, i.e. an error in choice or as the old Latins used to say culpa or glendo es maxima culpa, there is no release from it even without this criminal new incrimination that we need so much. Why is this situation in the country? They came to me, so at least they wrote, and they said, "Please read this and do something for the sake of 11 thousand disreputed, frightened workers who are helplessly watching robbery and crime in their company." Here, for example, I have so much and for every state firm, this is where it's now, I'm going to start with the Croatian Post Office. Such business results Croatia has had, "Croatian Post" since 2006 and how will it deliver its obligations, i.e. to meet its obligations? So, since the set-up of this dream team at the head of "Croatian Post" since 2006, the loss of the first year has been 72 million, so as it goes, as our people would say, in 2007, they slightly increased to 75 million kuna. And then since no one reacted to the loss in 2008 was 253 million kuna. It is said that yet here is the better business, saves itself, cuts are painful and so, and basically the only factor of a positive financial result that has been reduced to the collection of postage, and that is 50% of the largest, maximum number of postal services they have, or shipments that have only 20 grams. Therefore, so much for this positive business. It is said that the Croatian Post Office does not have any financial responsibilities. And as the issue of 40m-euro bonds is neglected to pay off, now this is great, let's see where we are and why, in order to pay off the severances to professional workers, to get rid of them. People who are now burdening the Peace Fund to get these severances. Now, in order not to remain vacant, the head of the administration has taken care of himself who says he's not employed 400 new employees, that it's a lie. But 300 is, he doesn't say that, but 400 says no. Now it's interesting how and what are these people? MB Executive Director of the Office for Human Resources Management and Management Contracts. Then the psychologist, the daughter of the Vice President of the Privatisation Fund and the niece of the general. Then everyone else has these managerial contracts, and then there's an interesting piece of information that nobody's ever seen at work, so it's post office Buljubašić, which, therefore, this Marine this morning is asking you how it's possible not to get paid, but it's possible in Croatia country. Apparently more absurd than a man doesn't work and gets paid. Now he's still coming, how does the business of a state-owned company go down, and why are they inequitable? There's a waiter coming by the post office, and the magistrate's fired, telecommunications. And here comes the waiter by profession, at which place, please? To the head of selling key customers. So who's crazy about it? So who's in charge of this? Well, that's our property. You and your private company do whatever you want and hire waiters, and fire professional people. Extraordinary cancellations, labor contracts, shagging, intimidation, strategic mobbing, etc., all of this is for those who ask any questions about it. But it's not really, I'd like to say something here to my fellow writers and creators of this bill. It's not true that state-owned companies don't pay everyone, not everyone. First they pay those people, we'll see who, who's even done the contracts, who haven't done any work. So let's say, either I'm going to name a coma and what it's about, or it's worth over a million, it's millions of dollars, they're going to pitch and sort into some small amounts of 69,000 kuna, and they're giving their loved ones jobs. And, of course, no contests, what a contest. The FIMI Media without a direct contract, so something that was said differently in public, only a part was recognised, in 2008 and 2009, contracts for a marketing and PR agency amounting to 5 million kunas were signed. And we're wondering where indifference came from. But for five days, here's the famous company, five days after the contract was concluded, that company put out the "Croatian Post" account, and it hasn't done the job yet. Within five days, the payment of the full amount arrived. Not to mention where there is its own space, like in Sibenik, and then it is said that it is not some space enough, so somewhere where people have to pick up a postal shipment in the city instead of downtown to go to the end of the city to rent several million kunas or forgive the amount of 10 to be very precise 10 thousand euros per month to 10 years. Furthermore, in order to achieve these professional personnel, boxers who do not work who no one has seen, waiters and so on, have been tested. And the main test was, which eats koala and the name of coach of the American basketball team. Of course "Sokol Marić" has been paid without any public tender 8.5 to almost million kuna, and to the "Massol" Agency, co-owner of Ratko Puček for several million kunas and for the contract, please, which mail has concluded for the advertising of the OIB, whose product is the product. The OIB is a product of the Ministry of Finance. So that we don't speak in the very hep who buys apartments, gives them to his loved ones, and then collects electricity to the people. Mr. Secretary of State, here we all are together to imagine what's going on here. Maybe all of this isn't true or the good part isn't true, but we need answers. These people are afraid to ask these questions, they'll ask them when the time comes. But I'm setting them up now to prevent further damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49797	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49798	Thank you very much. In her debate, counterpart Anticevic said, this bill is an attempt to eliminate the non-individual, i.e. a major problem of individence. So even if this law were to be applied, it would really only remain an attempt, because it would not solve the problem of indifference and I would accept that expression of negligence. Why? Because a small number of entrepreneurs of large or otherwise entrepreneurs owe more to entrepreneurs than the Republic of Croatia to all entrepreneurs. And these same entrepreneurs owe the Republic of Croatia. And not getting into an analysis of these allegations of yours that are being done by state-owned enterprises, they're not from such situations either immune or private companies. They also do not comply with their obligations, and they pay and overpay either fabricated or overpaid services abroad, thus making their accounts worse abroad, and the jury accounts in Croatia are weak and do not settle their obligations. The truth is that indifference also increases because of ignorance, because there are no more means of depreciation, so when a change of technology comes, then everyone comes to the problem of indifference. It's the result of a great ignorance. But I would also like to know if 27 billion kunas are deposited in banks in savings from companies, is these companies holding 27 billion in banks at the same time owe other entrepreneurs and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49799	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49800	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This SDP bill is the most rational thing to do is actually defend with numbers. In March 2009, therefore, at the time of the government's adoption of an anti-recession package of 10 measures of which the 3rd highest ranking was therefore one of the most significant related to the security of the liquidity of public enterprises and the private sector, at that time the unsettled liabilities were 20 billion kuna. Individually, there were 55,000 economic operators, i.e. 22 thousand legal entities and 33,000 craftsmen, which employed 61 thousand workers. At the end of 2009, or more precisely in December 2009, total outstanding liabilities exceeded 27 billion kuna, the number of insolvency economic operators increased to 64,000. So there were 27 thousand legal and 37,000 craftsmen, and the number of employees of insolvency operators increased to 74 000. And those are really scary numbers. After the adoption of the anti-recession liquidity insurance measure, there was a real explosion of liquidity. Unpaid debts rose 35%. Such scales of non-equivalence in the economy have not been recorded 10 years back since 1999, which we remember as the worst year of indifference in the history of independent Croatia. It is also frightening that two-thirds of the total number of insolvency entities and even half of the total amount of outstanding waste debts to phantom companies without any employees. It's about companies that build up debts, because the irresponsible owners are pulling the trade capital out of the company and spending it on expensive cars, yachts and apartments and luxury trips, and then elegantly opening up and closing bankruptcy because they don't have property to settle debts. Then they open up new companies and re-emerge fair companies because the unsettled debts of the phantoms are at the same time unpaid by the claims of their creditors, hence those of the fair part of the Croatian economy. And as long as honest entrepreneurs are held hostage by such characters, they can't find a better and more adequate expression? So long as the government only finds out while they only exist and nothing else. Who's afraid of a dog that only barks and doesn't bite? To begin with, it is a good intention for the government to force the bill to centralise in one place in the FINA, as was the previous case, and not for it to be sprayed on banks whose forced payment is actually dependent on an interest relationship with the client. The consequences are certainly very visible. In addition, a new company could not be opened under the Law of the Court Register if there were unsettled obligations on the old company. And the assumption was, in fact, an insight into the unique and complete record of outstanding liabilities in one place in an institution that was not actively connected to its client. Obviously, then, some of the good legal solutions we had shouldn't have been abolished, and that's why they're abolished has its price. In Croatia, a culture of non-payments has been built for years and the current crisis is just an additional excuse for everyone to set payment deadlines themselves, to choose between dozens of completed invoices to pay and the area of bribery and corruption begins and all of this actually strengthens the crisis. It is a vicious circle, and therefore it is the same as for corruption and for non-payment to introduce a zero tolerance rate because it is indeed a hard-core phenomenon that is spreading in concentric circles such as infection and contagion and until yesterday still a healthy economic tissue, one word threatens the blockage of the entire economy. True, in the last month, the number of employees of insolvency economic operators has been reduced by 4.4 thousand. However, this is not really an information that should be enjoyed. On the contrary, we need to be further concerned because it shows that insolvent companies are mass-released workers. When presenting the 2010 budget, Minister Schuker said that 2010 would be a year of struggle for each job. Unfortunately, they never lost their jobs more than they did today. In addition, we need to worry about the fact that almost 70% of the total number of insolvency operators has been blocked for more than a year and that over 75% of all liabilities have been unsettled for over a year and that this means that all these economic operators have actually long acquired or met the conditions to launch bankruptcy because we know that, under bankruptcy law, the formal condition is the inability to pay within 60 days or two months. And if this government does not want to become a collective bankruptcy manager of the Croatian economy, it must take concrete measures immediately. It must not waste a moment because too much time has already been lost by closing its eyes, by pushing its head into the sand or by denying the problem. And you really don't need to invent hot water. The measures or at least one part of the measures are listed in this legislative proposal, especially those which highlight the issue of responsibility for both the administrations and the supervisory boards of public undertakings and state institutions which are certainly a major indifference generator alongside the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49801	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49802	Thank you very much. When this law is addressed to the procedure and this was read in June 2009 in the light of this bill, indifference amounted to 15 billion kuna. Today, nine months later, when we discuss this legal proposal, indifference amounts to 27 billion kuna. I stopped to keep your colleagues from leaving the assembly. So the liquidity in these nine months is almost doubled. The government rejects this legislative proposal and we see with what explanation. He says the government has adopted a package of anti-recession measures on 26 March 2009, one of the important measures aimed at maintaining business stability, liquidity and insolvency. Great. The government has adopted a package of measures and the result of the application of this package is that in nine months indivisibility has almost doubled. Well, because the government's package of measures has brought nothing more than a doubling of the government's indifference, the government rejects this legal proposal to the SDP. It's unusually logical. The government further says in its explanation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers the measures and activities taken to have a proper and sufficient impact on further stabilised economic opportunities relating to public undertakings and companies in which the Republic of Croatia has majority ownership. The government therefore considers that its measures are sufficient and appropriate. Sufficient and appropriate measures have led to a doubling of liquidity within nine months. So what if those measures weren't enough and appropriate? Then what would be indifference? Maybe indifference would have diminished if the government hadn't taken any action, had she left it all to the verse and had not been involved in anything. Because the way the government works, it'd be better if the government didn't. The indifference chain is indestructible. Why? Because when a person or entity A owes subject B, then this entity B cannot pay off its debts to subject C because he did not collect his claims from entity A. C can't pay D, D can't pay E, and so because of one debt of that initial debt subject A, there's a chain of liquidity where everyone owes or nobody pays anyone anything. Who's out? Who gets hurt first? The smallest one, he doesn't have so much cumulation that he can wait so long. He's leaving, he's out, he's got to go bankrupt, he's got to fire the workers. And that's why the indifference chain in which the government believes it is taking sufficient measures to give birth to unemployment. One of the reasons for the increase, such an enormous increase in unemployment, is an increased indifference against which the government believes it is taking sufficient measures. There's another cynicism. In fact, the Government is a debtor, government and public companies, i.e. largely owned companies of the Republic of Croatia. Minister Schooker laughed at us here, claiming it was a lie that the government was not fulfilling its obligations. There was a recent protest by peasants the entire state found out that the government had not paid the peasants a boost for 2008 either. So, that one minister dares to deceive the public in itself is scandalous, that it does in the Parliament is additionally scandalous, and that even the cerek is precisely degutant. Why does the government refuse to accept this legislative proposal that wants to cut deadlines? Why doesn't the government want to cut deadlines? Well, that's because she likes it, just because. What other reason could the Government have not accept this legal proposal? Well, the government doesn't want him to pay. Why? Because he doesn't even know how to plan, so he can't even fulfill his own misplanned obligations. What would the government do with the peasants and the debt to the peasants when she has now announced that obligation since 2008 to fulfill only 2011. The government's payment deadline is four years, the government's full mandate. It's the way this government works, so it's perfectly logical for me that the government rejects a law that wants to introduce order into payment. It's a mess for the government. There's cloudy water, you can do whatever you want in the muddy water. And it's not true that the government doesn't pay anyone. She hasn't paid the peasants since 2008, but let's say the MORH trucks paid off an advance a year before they were delivered. I did, of course, because that money went to Eurocamion, I did, of course because it was 10 million kunas bigger than it was supposed to be, so logically it was paid in advance. He says HDZ cannot accept this, Maric says because it is a partial solution. First reading and first reading is if partial is in the first reading, so it can be added to the second reading. It's an ideal opportunity since it's in two readings to supplement. But it's not the reason, it's not the reason Maric says it's true. It is true that the government, or HDZ, wants a complete solution, and in all of the HDZ, it also fits the government that this indifference is increasing because it is the only thing that is acceptable to the HDZ government. HDZ's indifference is not only acceptable, it is important to HDZ. Here's my colleague Maric rightly said indifference was '99. She was older than she is now. Then Racan's government came, and her first move was to suppress indifference. The first move, to make the state pay its commitments, to start the payment wheel, to break that liquidity chain, to give the economy air and that worked. When the state paid off its commitments, the economy started. When does indifference occur again? In 2003, when HDZ returns to power. So it's still the government of Tudjman, is it the government of Sanader, is it the government of Jadranka Kosor, whatever. It's the HDZ government that wants cloudy water. Inevidence is about entering corruption because if the debtor chooses to pay the believer, then the logic that the HNS was talking about, pay me to pay you. Give me a bribe and I'll pay you my dues. That's the entrance to corruption, that's what fits this government, that's what fits HDZ, and that's why he refuses one perfectly normal, necessary law, which is to set payment deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49803	Thank you. We have a correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49804	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazic, you said this bill would not be a partial solution because it can be complemented. In addition, a partial solution would remain because this bill applies only to the settlement of the obligations of state-owned enterprises and public companies. And what happens to all other legal entities, craftsmen and business entities on the economic market? In the event that the mutual indifference and the obligation to settle obligations between all economic operators is not fully regulated, then it always remains a partial solution and only regulates the obligation of the State to others, not the rest of them and others to the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49805	Replications. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49806	Thank you. You're telling your colleague that it fits HDZ like this, and it's true that they do because no one knows about the small abilities and the great ambitions of this government, that no one is so incompetent to create such a catastrophic state in the country. This is a policy bankruptcy that will lead to the bankruptcy of the state tomorrow unless something urgent is done. You mentioned so many measures. Out of the 10 measures promised, only one, the budget rebalance, and then we had a rebalance over the rebalance, that's going to happen again. Well the budget is like an old rag, it's full of holes, there's no more patching holes, it needs to be replaced, and it's done in elections because it's the only necessity. None, it was promised to attract foreign investment, which one came from? Nothing. They showed just these peasant riots all and the real truth about subsidies, about payments. So, cutting and cutting is spoken by Mrs. Prime Minister, and this cutting has come down to making potato salad from domestic to Christmas and New Year's Eve parties, and everything is still old and worse because this is a process that will not stop itself. But you see, my colleague, it's not true that the state doesn't charge everything. About a small craftsman, regardless of why he got into difficulties, at the auction the house of 250 squares sells for a shameful 45 thousand euros and who, who report to such companies as they founded to scavenge around Croatia and earn money on the torture of a Croatian citizen. This country was close or fast. It's one great injustice and shame. And it's showing again that the state is strong to the weak then, but it's weak to the strong because that's what it wants to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49807	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49808	Well, it's not true, colleague Ingrid, that the budget rebalance was the only anti-recession measure of this government. This government has also brought two very important anti-recession measures. Harac introduced to further impoverish workers and collected as much money from their pockets as possible and increased the VAT rate. This is another important anti-recession measure to raise prices, introduce new excise duties. There, it is another anti-recession measure paid by citizens of this country by increasing poverty. That's how this government fights the recession. No, well, it doesn't occur to this government to accept this bill of ours to public enterprises and that the government itself pays its debts on time. So why would the government do that when they can bring in a hack and pick up from the citizens' wallets of that money. Well, that's their fight measures. You know, there's a terrible cynicism in this. Entrepreneurs must pay VAT to the state when they issue the invoice, and the government is concerned about getting their money from them immediately, immediately. But when they get the government's money that government won't accept such a solution to pay these money within 30 days, it's not and it's the cynicism of the elected government towards those who chose it. So it turns out that HDZ has been chosen to collect from citizens everything he can and to owe citizens as much as he wants. It's the politics of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49809	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49810	Comrade Stazic, you are asking yourself a question in your debate several times why the government does not want these measures to be taken. Well, the government doesn't want to take these measures because it claims it's not the only one to blame for this total indifference. However, I ask the question of who makes decisions in this country. Who but the government in this country makes decisions? Does anyone else have a third? It's very simple why, who is responsible for this overall situation and if you don't agree with me, perhaps that the reason why the government doesn't accept and this proposal of yours and does not allow this proposal to be discussed so that the story doesn't go according to this Lt. Andersen's "Car is naked".
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49811	The girl with the stamps. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49812	You're saying the government says the government isn't the only one to blame, so that's why we don't accept this. Well, the government actually shows that it does not know the nature or extent of its responsibility. The government is responsible for the overall situation in the country. It's her responsibility for macroeconomic policy. All about payments, especially state payments, is the government's responsibility. If the government says it is not her fault she clearly shows that she has no idea what the government's responsibility is to the citizens. And the citizens chose a government based on promises. Here, in this case, there have been completely false promises, fraud promises to make them feel better, and that's why they choose some power to make their citizens feel better. Well, not because this government would be better off than if they were better off with citizens, and that's where they were cheated. They have to admit that to the citizens themselves, don't they? They've been promised an improvement, and they've suffered job losses, unemployment, poverty, hunger. They have to break in, break into drugstores to steal food for children so their newborns don't starve. It's a state of affairs in this country after six years of government. But I'm not surprised the government just said it wasn't her fault. It's completely understandable to this government. I'm surprised she didn't say it was Racan's government's fault. She still couldn't say that, because after Racan's government she didn't inherit indifference. She inherited a neat payment, but it doesn't bother this government, you know. I'm surprised that so far in the debate no one has or at least in replicas pointed out that argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49813	Mr. Representative Luke Denon, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49814	My colleague, it seems to me that you are not quite right when you are alphabetically stringed if A is due B, then B is due C, then C is obliged so where it all goes and that in this way you talk about how indifference extends to Z. You know, the one on Z Zivko still has to be liquid, because when this Z Zivko goes to the store then either solarly to the sun or the card has to pay for what he took in that store. If it's on the card, then there's an extended payment schedule for sure they go to that interest. Without further ado. There's no way he's gonna make it without it. So, the one on Z when he gave that Z, he didn't pay his salary because A didn't come to him and didn't pay him. So it's still being paid in this country. Don't, I kind of got the impression when you guys were alphabetically starting to pay no one anything. The smallest must pay as much as it costs, and for him there is no mercy in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49815	The answer to the line, please, Mr. Stazic. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49816	If I understand you correctly, you're talking about ordinary little citizens, people who come into the store, who have to pay for the real money. I can't pay him with government promises. I can't come to the store, look for a kilo of circle and tell the government that I'll be able to pay for it, so when I can, I'll pay for it for you. He won't give them bread, he'll be hungry. The result of this government's work is 314000 unemployed, 317000 unemployed. That's 317000 hungry families plus 70,000 working people who don't get paid. So they don't have any income again and that's another 70,000 hungry families. The SDP is trying, trying, offering legislative proposals one by one to help these people. The government rejects all these proposals, and HDZ comes out of the assembly, they won't even listen to it. They don't care about that at all. They want to know how many of their friends, Barba Luka, are going to write a letter and get a job in a public company, so they're going to steal it. That's what they're interested in, not 317 thousand hungry, who don't work, and another 70 thousand who work and are hungry because they don't get paid. And the proposals SDP offers here to break the chain, that's rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49817	And Mrs. Tatjana Shimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49818	You told your colleague that the government doesn't care, that it works better in a mess. That's right. She didn't predict who might be responsible. In fact, we know a variety of examples of these days when workers are not paid salaries for work done, but not only are salaries not paid, but neither are legally prescribed contributions nor pensions nor health benefits paid for them, nor are income tax paid for them. Of course, when we file a tax return, our citizens couldn't make a tax return, we're wondering who's responsible for the non-payments, is anyone responsible? We're wondering why all our proposals are being rejected and they don't have a solution to that? But indifference doesn't happen overnight. It is also not the same bankruptcy when it occurs, when a net salary cannot be paid, but at the previous stage when bankruptcy can still go into bankruptcy, or in a restructured bankruptcy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49819	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49820	Look, it's becoming clear that one-sided indifference leads to non-payment of contributions. They suffer from funds, health and pension funds. As much as the funds suffer, it has to be compensated from where? From the budget. There's nowhere else to go. It is also true that indifference leads to bankruptcy. Any bankruptcy again means less payment to the budget, but all that is not enough, that simple knowledge is not enough for the government to accept this SDP bill. They will also prefer to suffer funds, so let them suffer the state budget, all of which is more acceptable to them than to clear the water. For if the water were cleared, then it would be seen who was doing it. And like this, when the water's cloudy, then you can do whatever you want, and that's, that's, that's hunting in that blurry water, that's hunting big fish, and carrying them into their own pools. So that interest to stay dark, to keep the water blurry, that motive is far stronger than to help both pension and health and state budget funds by adopting this law. The government and HDZ count on everything to fail, no matter what the funds fail, no matter what the budget suffers, the main thing is that we in that mutation can calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49821	Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49822	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So let's just say a harmless bill on the resolution of something that clearly proved that since last year when the law was released in the procedure, a harmless bill of law, even here's a partial bill on how it was named here, it's done that the government is now once and for all, but the Secretary of State on behalf of the Government is appalled that since the 6th month of last year at all, so to this day when we're discussing such an innocent bill that clearly says something that you have to pay within 30 days, something that you promised to pay in 60 days, is causing this kind of live debate and with disgust they refuse. He would say that the law, the SDP bill, is subversive, that it is catastrophic and that the government is trying not to understand it, but to put it in the process for a year at all, is going to have an expensive blow if such a single bill is discussed. It is obvious that the recognition of both the State Secretary and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the recognition and the opposition which claims that individence has reached an unprecedented scale of 29 billion, the recognition, or statistics of the FINA, if I am well counting which says indifference is so large, it is obvious that indifference then exists. Yes, if it exists from any serious government, from any serious government that would face such a single problem such a huge indifference that, of course, it affects the one who influences the way one can make ends meet, then one serious government would have such a problem that is great and admits that the problem really wanted and had to and could in some way solve it. I agree that this may be a partial solution, but we're with such a partial, I'm not sure that that solution from 2000 to 2003 was something very, very big. The same can be said to have been a partial solution, so this partial miracle solution produced some sort of result, and then the indifference that everyone admits fell to the lowest branches. The question now arises why does one serious government think that only with a package of anti-recession measures that will address the problems of indifference has solved the problem among other things. Or with the future of these two measures which, I hope, will partially relieve that indifference of something to do, and in any case a harmless proposal that is very precise, very short can also not respect it and try it then, even if a partial solution to that great problem of indifference. So if she didn't want to take the whole of our law, when she had already characterised it as a bill, when she characterised it as a partial proposal, maybe she took only one article in that bill as a partial solution, and that article is no. 8. which says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would already be a good indicator that it is willing to discuss this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to report all three months to the Croatian Parliament on the state of liquidity of state and public enterprises, the state budget and other state institutions and their outstanding liabilities. I doubt that it has been accepted in such a partial way that this article, which is bound by the Government, would be committed even in front of this Parliament that every three months we discuss indifference, we argue that it is something very subversive, so it cannot be accepted. Of course I agree with Mr. Maric, who says it should be well analyzed by the causes, but also by the consequences and analysis of why the indifference has taken place today. However, while this analysis, which I hope they understand, is when this bill was proposed last year, you have already started to analyze the causes of indifference, or I guess you'll start now, while it is edified by who knows where this general indifference will lead us. And then finally we heard today in response to the Prime Minister in the current clock that again, I repeat, they're going to try to re-introduce order in the ministries, order in the state, of course I assume that order in payment among those who are in charge of those who have done some work, who have done some work. Now, I'm asking how is that still at the appeal level, so we're going to re-introduce something? It seems to me that somewhere at nine months we also appealed, so we've introduced some sort of order of two billion of some kind of savings. Then why can't such a order be accepted and why can't such order be established by law? It seems to me, then, that it is the law that would lead to such order that respect or disrespect of the law. At least that law was partial. Because then those big ones that my colleague Maric is talking about, who have a market position, wouldn't be left behind so they have that market position so that they can do whatever they want. I suppose then the law would apply to them as it does to others, but the law is then, then the law should be respected. And then maybe all these days would come out, all the big ones who use opportunities and interest, and I don't know what, and they don't pay their dues. Finally, if it is recognised somewhere in some other countries as a colleague in New Zealand and in other European countries, yet they have tried and solved the problem of indifference in such a way as to enable him to succeed, I do not see why they would only resort to appeals in Croatia, and not to some legal solutions. Even if it's partial. You know, big problems can be solved in two ways. Systemically, one-timely, as solved by Alexander the Macedonian, but also partially, problems are solved step by step. And I think it would be welcome and I don't see why the parliamentary majority with so much fear and reluctance is looking for one hand to help, when that hand is provided then they reject it with arguments that are not partial but complete because here we have dared to point out this great bauk of indifference that will cost us all and the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49823	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49824	You're talking to your colleague Denon about a partial solution, and I think the debate so far has made it very clear. This was also seen as taking the positions of the HDZ club and colleagues, Maric, who admit that this one, Maric, admitted it, is a solution, but a partial one. The HDZ and the government are not even eligible for a partial solution. Imagine how nervously they would react if they had received a complete solution, when it is not even partially acceptable to them. Individence has doubled during President Kosor's rule or chairmanship, in the last nine months. Any partial solution could reduce that indifference, and then what does the government do? What, then, does the minister whose ministry is due to someone, and the minister chooses which one of them will be paid for. And you know when I decide who I'm going to pay with government money for what position I'm in for that believer. What if that writer of Barba Luka's epistoll were to do if this were to be resolved at least partially? And this is how this writer of the epistoll barbie decided who he was going to pay from a public firm, and probably how much he was going to take for it, not someone else. And that's why this government and HDZ are not acceptable to a partial solution, about not speaking entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49825	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49826	The laws, some laws, some bill proposals are really complicated, incomprehensible. So if you had the opportunity of course then in the introductory page to see one 3 pages of explanations which the term individual means. This is a very simple law, which says within 30 days, the budgetary user must settle its obligation, i.e. a debt that has and within 60 days, companies owned by a state must also settle their debts. I don't see why there's so much fear that something, even if it's partial, is somehow trying to make that indifference less if anything else. Because we've established that she exists. My colleague Maric said she's about 27, 29, we can make a deal now that "fina" with some new 30 data comes, round to 30 billion. But a fellow state secretary said that on average state-owned companies, on average, hold those frameworks for 30 days and just over 60 days. Yeah, but if they stick to how that indifference grew to those enormous 29 billion? Then who doesn't pay in this country and who doesn't get paid? I think it should really be imagined that in this House, when we talk about data that are official we speak equally of the same data or we just use that data to protect the unhappiness which is and the unwillingness to have the problem that exists in any way, even if it's a partial trial and try to solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49827	Thank you. Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49828	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague of Denon when you're talking about the order, or the discipline of payment, and why the government doesn't answer that. So it doesn't answer for a simple reason, maybe because it won't and doesn't want to read the report of the State Audit, where, for example, one city owes on the basis of a bank guarantee of 6.5 million kuna in the state budget, finances, and the same city boasts with one savings from 15 million kuna and which it deposes at banks in business banks, and how it got that money back. Again from the state budget of unquality projects that he withdrew money and these money stands at the expense of a business bank. Normally, if the state would, or the Ministry of Finance, already in that section to launch at least those commitments signed together with the city, it would get 6 million kunas back into the state budget. And you're also probably Mr. Shucker then you'd have to boast less about borrowing from foreign banks of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49829	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49830	Dear fellow, if you have read this thin proposal of this law, it is very readable and it is very clear that in this case we are proposing it first reading, that it is not only directed at the Government of the Republic of Croatia which does not pay out of its budget, that it is not directed against public companies that do not carry out their obligations, but are ordering works and not paying, but also an attempt to then and local self-government units means all budgets must be responsible for their debts which they have and according to their obligations. So it's not very partial, but in one part there's both a head and a tail and one attempt to get in this mess and in this chaos that has ruled in paying or not paying what order it introduces and somewhere else to find out why that 29 billion is and who is actually the 29 billion to whom it owes. So, one such attempt by an unsubversive law as it seems to me to be experiencing it here, here's the government smoothly rejected it as she refused many other good proposals on the side of the opposition. But it remains not on the law, the government remains only on appeal. And today we've heard we're going to appeal to order in the ministries, we're going to appeal to order in the state, we're going to appeal to order. And this appeal to order is only a mess, and it seems to me that, after all, the order is due or the laws that should then be maintained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49831	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, the closing word of the representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49832	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for the discussion. And I feel the need to point out the problem one more time. Individence in Croatia is one of the most serious problems. And the question remains, when something in Croatia is a serious problem, a problem that threatens economic growth because of its seriousness, endangers economic activity and endangers employees. It's already the number of people at the Employment Service. That's the problem with liquidity. That is the problem that is then being put before us whether we should discuss this problem, whether we as a Croatian Parliament must also deal with it legally. And we say, yes, we need him. In the debate we had the biggest problem is a partial solution. Why? Because this is where the SDP Club proposes that we approach this problem in such a way that the state bodies are responsible for the budgetary resources, which are responsible for the resources and manage these resources, behave responsibly and do not cause the problem. That's how we got rid of him. The criticism we got from our HDZ colleagues is what we're going to do with those who don't pay each other in the real sector. Well, you see, that's settled. It is settled by the Law on Mandatory Relations. But the economy says it's not handled well. Why isn't it handled well? Because these problems are being solved by the judiciary. Now I'm asking, dear gentlemen, are we going to take over here for justice? No, I don't. We can't legally get involved in the problem of why the judiciary has been going on lawsuits for 10 years based on mutual debt. It's unacceptable. In six months, he can solve them. But as Parliamentarians, I don't believe we can do that anymore. The question remains of our minister of justice and the entire government that simply if this is a problem, try to make it very clear to the judiciary that we expect greater efficiency. Because it will happen to us that quality economic operators sink because they are threatened by irresponsible, undisciplined. Therefore, the truth is very much bothering us not to pay between legal entities that are not dependent on power. But that's where we expect the judiciary to work. So we're wondering if every segment of the government has to do its job? The Croatian Parliament must try to say that it is legal to regulate the discipline and responsibility of representatives of the authorities of those who correspond. But we can't replace the judiciary. They have to do their job. When you talk about partial solutions, yes. There's something else on our mind. Since the judiciary is also responsible for judicial relations, we too are to blame as a state if the businessmen suffer damage because of this inefficient judiciary. And when we wrote, it occurred to us, should we suggest that the judiciary doesn't work and that there's no charge between legal entities to say we're going with the VAT that we're going to pay for, so we're going to punish ourselves again and ruin our budgets, both state and local environments. Is if we're ruining the real sector, why don't we just take a part of the risk? Yeah, you can talk about what's crazy. We are aware that it is insane but calm to observe the ineffectiveness of the judiciary in the protection of the credentials, endangering the good but we do not want to endanger our VAT, we do not want to compromise our revenues in the budget. Therefore, when we talk about a comprehensive I would say solving the problem is this ineffectiveness of the judiciary and the questions whether or not we are taking part in this and giving up VAT charges until someone collects their invoice because it can simply be paid. And not like this, the state collects its own money and it doesn't matter if he collects what he pays for the state. That's why we think it's an alarming situation. The businessmen in this impotence, the impotence in courts, the impotence in relation to the state are trying to save and to ask you for a solution. And that is why in the Croatian Parliament we need to see if there are any solutions and how to try to fix these solutions anyway, regardless of the individual measures that will give some effect but we are afraid will not stop the trend, maybe it will slow down. The question is, what will be the next information on indivisibility, the question? And even when I remember the debate that you had here and you said it wasn't all, it's far bigger. Are we aware that it is simply a problem that we must not go through in the Croatian Parliament, we must not. If you're talking to the businessmen, he doesn't ask you anything but help me collect my claim. Responsible businessmen say I can't stand in front of my employees and say no pay. I'll kill myself sooner, I won't let that happen. That's what responsible businessmen say. And what we offer, and listen, we cannot help you. It is unacceptable for us in the Croatian Parliament to say we cannot help. That's an alarming problem. And if the government has one segment of resolution, mitigation, attempt to stop, let's try us in that part. The truth is, the good part of them doesn't pay in the budget, they don't pay taxes, they don't pay in invoices to HEP, but let's be aware that's where we have to force our own administrations, where we have to force our ministers. Here's your request to charge the state. They have to charge, they have to use every system to collect it, they have to seek discipline. We have to get rid of the ballasts we pull and pull once, and once we have to get rid of them, and that's the power of politics again. And in order for all of this to happen, we need to be disciplined, we need to show that discipline. That this is thus shown by a European Commission which makes it very clear to everyone in Europe in this crisis, in this problem of irresponsibility in payments should not be irresponsible to the foreign authorities, this is the European Commission's message. So let's not ask for an excuse that we can't introduce this measure because we don't... Unacceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And by doing so, we try to be responsible to the businessmen and try to help them in this fight against the irresponsible who do not have the responsibility to pay. Here's another SDP appeal. Try to understand how important that is. Until the second reading, there's got to be something to fix and solve. But be also aware, the complex solution that we are involved in the efficiency of the judiciary through legal measures I don't know how acceptable or justifiable it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49833	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49834	A colleague of Linic's, you said that between business entities on the market, non-payment is due to inefficient justice. I'm sorry, I was the only one who could, or I'd rather rephrase you than correct that quote, but that's the only way to say it. You said the Mandatory Relations Act regulated and that's enough. Unfortunately, the practice has shown that the judiciary is not guilty of non-payment, nor has the law regulated it well, this is the practice confirmed because the Law on Mandatory Relations of Articles 173 to 175 provides for the non-limited payment period and for those who have a position on the market to benefit from it and then create indifference. And those of you employers are asking for help to collect. So they're asking for help to collect employers from employers and that's the key reason why I said this is a partial solution because this is a huge problem indifference within each other within business entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49835	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49836	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are going to vote on the agenda points that we have concluded the debate. First – Proposal for a law on payment deadlines for state and public undertakings, the state budget and other state institutions. That was the first reading, P.Z.E. No. 374, Proposer: SDP representative club. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the conclusion that it is. The draft law on payment deadlines for state and public undertakings, the state budget and other state institutions is not adopted. Let's please get involved and vote on this bill. The result? This proposal by the government and the parliamentary committees was adopted by a majority of 72 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 31 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49837	We move to point 2, with the applicant and we think it would be good, we suggest that points 2, 3 and 4 be united and we conduct a joint discussion. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Then we're going to combine point 2, point 3 and point 4. 2. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 375, Proposer: Representative Dragutin Lesar 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 376, Proposer: Dragutin Lesar 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, first reading, P.Z. No. 377, Proposer: Dragutin Lesar Proposer Dragutin Lesar proposed these amendments to the law on the basis of Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative and Proposer Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49838	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In relation to the economic and economic situation in the country, this issue certainly does not fall under public or citizens' best interests, and I therefore recall that the proposal was sent to the procedure on 19 June last year. It is only now that the debate is open that the result is different circumstances, i.e. the power in parliament. It is a topic in the Croatian Parliament or in the Croatian public that we are trying to get into the country as a stone. But those who tried to do this know that the rocks in the ground you can't break because the more you beat him into the ground, the more he'll go out again. You can't push him. According to existing legal decisions, state officials who belong to us are representatives, members of the government and leaders of local and regional self-government under the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests have certain obligations to the public, morals and ethics. Since the adoption of this law, we have witnessed together in a number of cases that the commission established and placed in the power to determine the possible existence of a conflict of interest in a single official, whether it is a state, local or regional, not at the disposal of mechanisms that would be effective, has the possibility to impose sanctions in the form of money, fines and such sanctions may potentially be charged if it is an official who is at the time of the sanctions in office. However, the recent Commission measure, when fined 320 and some officials, of which 260 former officials, have been sanctioned after the term of office, and sanctioned because of something they did not respect, is inconclusive. Because if he doesn't pay and he doesn't make that commitment, we can't do anything except put salt on his tail. Another measure is that it must, on its own account, publish on its burden the decision that it is in conflict of interest in local media. If he doesn't do anything to anyone, too. In such a situation, it is almost irrefutable to claim that legislative solutions are good, and in particular that we have made sure that the merger of private and public interest is subject to serious sanctioning. I also remind you of the fact that the commission has the power to give the law in case it determines that an official in conflict of interest sets him a reasonable time limit and that the possibility of removing the reasons for which he entered the conflict of interest. It is expected that a person who deliberately enters into a conflict of interest and also a person who, after warning the commission, does not remove the reasons for the existence of a conflict of interest in himself, regardless of the political and moral aspects of such behaviour, will not impose any sanctions. Therefore, I believe that we must insist that there are legal mechanisms in such individuals, I repeat this, in such individuals, that the only meaningful sanctions that would give a logical sequence are to be applied, which is to distance from public duty. The elements of public opinion, and in the countries from which we have taken solutions set out in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, seem to function differently than in Croatia, and there are public media that are that very dimension of conflict with morals and ethics of the brander and force such officials to step down from public responsibilities themselves. In Croatia, unfortunately, there is still no such development and situation in the public. Furthermore, I believe that we can no longer and must not afford further declines in respect of the reputation of both persons and institutions performing public duties, especially in the Assembly, because it is not only personal integrity and the reputation of officials who do their job fairly and without entering a conflict of interest, but I believe that there is a danger to the parliamentary system in the Republic of Croatia and all pillars of the social authority. In addition, back in the year, this trust, the reputation of the system's son institutions, has been marred by numerous corruption affairs. It is clear to me that the conflict of interest in the existing legislative solution is not an offence or offence that would be sanctioned by the judicial authorities, nor do I propose it. What did I suggest? First, I have established that there are no provisions in this law that would prescribe the conditions for a member of the government to stop the term of office. This may happen because of such a provision in Article 5. The government law that a person is legally sentenced to prison for more than 6 months under the letter of the law may remain a member of the government, but a parliamentary representative cannot retain his term if he is sentenced legally to prison for more than 6 months. Therefore, there is one complete disproportionate to the law of the prescribed circumstances or conditions in which the term of office ceases to be 1) a member of the Government, 2) a representative in the Assembly and 3) the top people of local and regional self-government, so to the heads of municipalities, mayors and mayors. I repeat, there is no provision in the Government Act under which conditions and circumstances cease the term of office of a member of the Government unless the Prime Minister or Government resigns as a whole. I therefore proposed that this Article 5 be amended and to establish that the term of office ceases on the day of the resolution, on the day of the resignation, on the day of the judicial decision of power to take a business capacity, on the day of the power of a court sentence which has been sentenced to an unconditional sentence of imprisonment for a period of more than one month, on the day of the power of judgment which has been sentenced to commit a criminal offence against the freedom and right of man and of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and on the value of protected by international law on the day of finalisation of the decision of the authority to decide on a conflict of interest which is determined by the existence of a conflict of interest on the day of termination of Croatian citizenship and death. As regards the term of office of parliamentary deputies in Article 10 of the Law, only four conditions for the termination of the term of office are laid down by law. The first is if he resigns, the second is if he is legally deprived of his business capacity. Thirdly, if he is legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than six months and death. I propose that the same criteria and the same conditions for the end of the term of office be for both the members of the Government and the Parliament. And third, the youngest or freshest law is that of the mayors of municipalities, mayors and mayors. And now watch out, for them, in the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, we taxfully listed the conditions in which their mandate ends, and I quote the existing provision of the law: "On the day of resigning, on the day of the power to rule of law on the withdrawal of business, on the day of the power of judgment of the court of law which has been sentenced to an unconditional sentence of prison for a period of more than one month, on the day of power of judgment which has been sentenced for the purpose of committing a criminal offence against the freedom and right of man, the citizen of the Republic of Croatia and the values of protected international law, on the day of the declaration of residence from the territory of the unit, on the day of termination of Croatian citizenship and death." So, for mayors, mayors and municipalities, we listed eight conditions under which their mandate ceases under the law and the loss of citizenship, and if they change their place of residence, they leave that unit and loses their business ability. So, indeed, all the circumstances and conditions that lead to the termination of the mandate in the civilised state. However, there is not one in the Law on Government, and there are only four cases in the case of parliamentary representatives. Why should all these conditions not be present with officials, government members, parliamentary representatives and representatives, i.e. local and regional self-government leaders. Why do I believe that the decision of the committee to determine the existence of a conflict of interest should or may be an element of the end of the term of office. Because an official for whom the decision of the Commission has established the existence of a conflict of interest under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has the possibility to protect his rights in the administrative procedure of the Administrative Court. Therefore, the decision of the Commission itself is not final and is subject to questioning as part of the administrative procedure. It is also an argument for possible observations that such rigorous things could be misused by establishing a conflict of interest to remove someone from office. But forgive me, if the Administrative Court also finds that the whole procedure in the commission has been established in accordance with the law and that there is indeed a conflict of interest then these abuses could practically not be. Furthermore, the second essential reason is that the commission can, in accordance with the law, set a reasonable time limit for each official to remove the reasons for which it is in conflict of interest and thus at the time of the removal of those reasons, it is no longer in conflict of interest. If, even after the decision of the Commission, after obtaining a deadline for leaving the conflict of interest, after their decision and after the decision of the Administrative Court which has practically established the correctness of the procedure, the decision does not consider that it must leave its duty. Isn't it our obligation to have legal mechanisms that will simply put him out of office by law enforcement? We often complain that the media is in violation of Parliament's reputation. Some other arguments, though, are individually cited. But when we can create through legislative solutions the conditions in which those who do not know how to behave properly will have to leave office, then the Government considers in its opinion what I simply cannot believe is that such a solution should be introduced into the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Well, I didn't suggest that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests replaces or resolves someone by its decision, nor can we grant such powers. It is authorised to determine whether or not someone is in conflict of interest, and it is up to us in Parliament and in the Government to propose and adopt such laws that, at the end of this procedure, if the official does not resign himself, he will have to step down by force of the law. It seems to me that these three views of the government in three draft laws are written in three different resolutions, because in the government's statement of an amendment to the Law on the Selection of Representatives, it is practically pointed out that a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest should be amended and concluded that there is no legal protection of officials to the decision of the Commission, which would be contrary to Article 18. The Constitution. I cannot believe it because the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest clearly states that the official has the right to protect his rights in accordance with Croatian law, and probably also in the Government know that it is then the Administrative Court. Second. In the light of the Law on Regional and Regional Self-Government, the Government wrote as a first step, it is necessary to establish and regulate the relevant law governing the matter in question, this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, the conduct of public duties, and only after that is possible for the harmonisation of other laws. How come we turn the commission into a disciplinary committee that fires a member of the government, a parliamentary representative or a mayor? That's not the point of the proposal. The Commission shall have the power and sufficient to determine whether or not the conflict of interest. The official has the right to question that decision before the Administrative Court, the Administrative Court confirms or abolishs such a decision by the Commission and we all know where we stand. Very simple, transparent, clear and clear. Only now is the second thing, whether we want the conflict of interest established by the bodies that are authorised by law to be an element or not to be an element of the termination of office in the Government, the Parliament, the municipalities, the city or the county. And I will end up next, if this proposal on conflict of interest is not accepted because it is considered too rigorous, is it too rigorous to prevent one person who is on public duty from using it for private purposes. Is that too rigorous? Or there must be an affair of billions of kuna that has to be committed in order for someone to be away from duty, even with the reason that it is the wrong climate. But then what about the next fact that this same Parliament, when it comes to mayors and mayors and mayors, has written for them that their mandate ends, for example, if they lose their business capacity by a final verdict. So the mayor or mayor of the city of Zagreb ends his term if he loses his business capacity, but not to a member of the government, not to a parliamentary representative. The mayor's term of office ends if he is legally sentenced to prison for more than a month, if he is sentenced to a term of six months, but for a member of the government that is not the condition for his term of office. It's not. Neither is the loss of business ability. Nor is the loss of Croatian citizenship, because for the mayors, the loss of Croatian citizenship is a condition, i.e. by force of the law, the mandate ends, but the parliamentary representative and the member of the government does not. So why have we so much for the lower than ourselves clearly prescribed the circumstances of the end of the term of office, ourselves a little bit, and the members of the government nothing, except when the Prime Minister and the entire government have been abdicated. So let's ignore at this point the conflict of interest. Is it correct of us that local and regional self-government is increasingly strictly prescribed, even the question arises whether it is in accordance with the Charter, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, that the central government is making such rigorous measures, but when it comes to officials of the state rank, then such provisions obviously do not need anyone in the law. But I remain with the claim that, in order to restore the trust of the institution of this state, restoring citizens' trust in the Parliament to the members of the government, and especially after the direct election of the mayors, mayors and mayors, the introduction of the term of office due to conflicts of interest would be on the trail of trust, we would have really less problems, and more trust, and then the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest would probably get the reputation, the public's attention, and trust me that maybe only one example would be enough for someone to remain without a duty because of the law, and you would see or see that after that, especially after the election, the newly elected officials would know their commitment to hand over the property card, about the exact fulfillment of the property card, and that no one would ever have to ask whether or not to enter the money into the property card, whether they had to report changes during the term, and that the property card had to endure the term. We have a situation that officials whose commission has established a conflict of interest have been re-elected on duty, some to the same, some have advanced from regional ranks to state, although conflict of interest has been established. The application of this law would not cost the state budget anything, nor the taxpayers as a whole. There are no dangers of political revenge, because it is the last judicial body to determine the correctness of the commission's decision. This is only about whether there is a political will in this Chamber to strengthen ourselves and to introduce provisions into the law when we will have to leave this hall if we sin against legal norms, morals and ethics, and it seems to me that we promise such an oath to the Croatian public, with a call to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49839	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And we have one reported. This is Honorable Representative Miljenko Doric, on behalf of the HNS Club Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49840	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Lesar, I must say that in front of the HNS, we support your attempt to comply with these three laws because there is a very good basis for trying to do so. There are also reasons why you're here, and now you've explained them to us. There is a need to supplement these laws with elements that were unjustly omitted when we adopted them. And you will see that we will support your proposal in 80 to 90% of the elements that you propose and we believe that without further ado another reading is given after the debate to prepare a new proposal that would be acceptable to most of this House. Not knowing that there will be a united debate under these 3 points I have prepared a debate by one, second and third law. I'm going to try to make this as short as possible, but let me look back at those three laws separately at the beginning. So I'm going to start with the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We agree that a failure was made when the law was passed and that it did not prescribe cases in which the president and members of the government were suspended by law. You here state eight such conditions, or cases. We agree with 7 out of 8. We agree that it will be with the day of discharge, with the day of the resignation, with the day of the power of the court's judgment to take away your business ability. With the power of a court sentence sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than a month. With the day of power of judgment which was convicted of committing a criminal offence against the freedom and rights of man and of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the values protected by international law. We agree that it will also be with the day of the termination of Croatian citizenship and death, but when it comes to the day of finalisation of the decision of the body responsible for the conflict of interest, we are here after a longer debate, still in the belief that this should not be done here. Why, Comrade Lesar? In fact, your request must be politically justified. A person who takes care of the general good cannot and must not be dirty in any way. A person who deals with public affairs cannot put personal interests side by side, let alone in front of general interests, and we agree. But my colleague Lesar, we live in the Republic of Croatia, and this is the year 2010. If we consider the way we choose the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, if you take into account the way we choose our Investigative Commissions, we ask if the policy influence is possible and is it realistic? He is present, the parliamentary majority decides on the composition of these bodies, and then we can expect an impact on the decisions of the commission. ... I'll keep this quiet, this benching. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We are going to the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We believe that, in addition to the existing four conditions with full right, you added that the termination of the term of office by force of the law will be even when the citizenship of a representative in the Assembly ceases to be on the day of the power of a court ruling condemning a person for committing a criminal offence against the freedom and rights of man and of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the values protected by international law. What we suggest is that, possibly in your proposal until the second reading, you amend the current paragraph 3 where it states that the term of office of law ceases to apply to a person who has been sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than 6 months. A colleague, Lesar, because you are intended to comply with three laws and certainly there is no reason to stand here for 6 months, to stand with the Government Act for a month, and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government also stands for a month. It turns out that we in the Parliament can be bigger thieves than those in the government, and at local and regional level, which absolutely should not fall to you or anyone else. Therefore, we can also ask you for this correction until the next reading. However, once again, we are not in agreement with just one of your proposals, this is the day of the final decision of the body responsible for deciding on a conflict of interest also being one of the conditions for ending the term of office by force of the law. So we accept from 3 of your new proposals, i.e. indent 2, and one of the existing ones we propose to correct in the Law on selecting MPs. Finally, there is the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. We agree with this list we have, but we would also have an objection here on the same condition that on the day of termination, excuse me just a little, here clearly again the same objection when it comes to the day of final decision by the body responsible for deciding on a conflict of interest, but by analogy proposed by the Law on Government would suggest that as one of the additional conditions, I hope you listen to me, there are also positive results in the referendum on mistrust, mayor and mayor. Because there you have a solution, and here you should respect the results of the referendum when voting on mistrust, namely the citizens of the trust of the mayor, the mayor and the mayor. Here, however, I would like to warn you of something that will soon have to be changed in this law and we will have to return it to our benches in 3-4 months, it is said that the resignation of the head of the local and regional self-government ends on the day of the termination of Croatian citizenship. In fact, the legal documents of the Council of Europe are made possible, however, they argue that foreign citizens are also participating in local elections, that they can vote and be elected. Therefore, by amending the Constitution with our entry into the EU, we will probably have to make a turn there and will not be able to stand what we now have in the existing law and what you propose to remain. Here, therefore, these are our proposals regarding one, the other and the third law. I hope that, as a proposer to the second reading, some of them will be able to accept and, ultimately, to contribute to both law and law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49841	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So three findings just in the end. The government is my first fellow I would like to thank Doric for supporting partial amendments to these laws, and I did not expect any other debates, so it turns out next. Based on what the government has written about this opinion, I'm saying let it be recorded. Determination of conflicts of interest in the Republic of Croatia is only a means of political accounting of political parties. And therefore, the determination of conflicts of interest in Croatian laws must not be a condition of termination of the term of office. That's how it turns out. We must not accept this because the conflict of interest in Croatia is used as a means of inter-party political reckonings. Okay. We're taking notice. Second. In Croatia, a member of the government may remain if he is sentenced to prison for more than 6 months, if he loses his business ability by a final verdict, if he loses Croatian citizenship. It doesn't matter. He could be a member of the government. That's what the law says. A parliamentary representative can also remain on his duties. The head of the municipality with a thousand inhabitants, then his mandate ends under the law. That's very important. And finally, counterpart Doric, it is true that Croatia's entry into the European Union, in the local elections, the right to vote will be held by foreign citizens who have an approved permanent stay, but only for the election of representative bodies in the executive office. So they won't be able to run for mayors of municipalities, mayors and mayors. And this proposal of mine is just about them. Therefore, yes, foreign nationals with an approved permanent stay will have the right to an active and passive electoral right but only for representative bodies, not executive duties. That's why I didn't even mention them here, that's why I did go with the national representation, because here my proposal applies only to executives. So, the mayor, the mayor and the mayor. I am pleased that now I can finally publicly establish the basis of what I heard today, establishing conflicts of interest, the existence of a Commission to prevent conflicts of interest in Croatia, does not exist in order to remove the functions and duties of those who combine public and private interests, but rather in order for us to wage mutual wars. I'll take that into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49843	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on these points when the necessary conditions are met. That concludes today's session. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the 5th point, and this is the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Sales of Apartments with the Final Bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 517. Thank you, and I wish everyone a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-17-0.u49844	Second – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. First reading, P.Z.E. No. 375th, Proposer: Representative Dragutin Lesar. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the conclusion that: The draft law amending the Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament is not being adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was adopted by a majority of votes, 74 votes to, 16 abstentions and 4 against. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're going back to work. Before I start, I'd like to say one thought that I'd like to share with all of you because I've scheduled a five-week session of the Parliament. The proposed agenda shows that there are not enough points for five weeks but that it was counting on a possible amendment to the Constitution to arrive at this time so that it could be included in the debate. However, if for any reason the situation is such that there are not enough agenda points we could skip one week and so on. In any case, we're going to act flexiblely here because I say we might expect a final proposal to change the Constitution, then maybe we'll fill in or some other item of the agenda that would arrive in the meantime. There's so much information. I'm moving to the fifth item of the final agenda that was divided into benches yesterday. 5. Proposal for a law to encourage the sale of apartments, with a final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z. No. 517 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. The report by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government is under way, has not arrived yet, but will arrive very soon. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms Marina Matulović-Dropulić, Minister for Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
