ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52356	Chairman: Mr Ivan Jarnjak, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Ivan Jarnjak: We continue the session. The fifth item of the agenda and with it has been announced and we are starting for today's session. This is - a proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peace operation in Afghanistan (ISAF) is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 4 and Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Police, Civil Protection, civil servants and deputies in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Branko Vukelic, defence minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52357	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Lady and gentlemen of Parliament. You are presented with a proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peace operation in Afghanistan or on a short-term ISAF for 2010 and 2011. As you know, the peace operation in Afghanistan, which we are talking about today and about sending soldiers today, has been based on the Bonaan Agreement since 25 December 2001, according to which, with the assistance of the International Community, a transitional administration over the country has been established and the post-Taliban future of Afghanistan has been drawn up. And the operation was approved by the United Nations Security Council resolution of 2001. The ISAF peacekeeping mission's tasks include assistance to the government of Afghanistan in ensuring and maintaining the security environment, developing national security structures, supporting training and training the security forces of Afghanistan, restoring the country and establishing democratic structures, and expanding the central government's influence on the entire Afghanistan area. These tasks during 2009 and 2010 receive additional momentum through the new International Community and NATO strategy for the establishment of a functional and self-sustaining Afghan state and the construction of an Afghan national security portfolio. The proposal for a new Allied strategy foresees that, over 4 years, an Afghan national security force is being able to act independently and take full responsibility for the country's security. In the ISAF peace operation, forces from 44 countries, NATO members, members of the Partnership for Peace and other partner countries are currently participating. As you know, the Republic of Croatia has been involved in this operation since February 2003 with its soldiers. The government of Afghanistan has asked NATO and the International Community to assist in training and mentoring its police and military in order to establish an adequate level of capacity to assume responsibility for Afghanistan's security. At a NATO summit in April 2009, the allies agreed on the launch of a special training mission for Afghanistan whose task is to oversee the higher level of training of the Afghan army and mentoring the Afghan police. In accordance with the current training of the Croatian Parliament on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan in 2010, up to 300 members may be deployed in the operation with the possibility of rotation. Currently in the ISAF peace operation, a 15th Croatian national contingent consisting of 294 members was deployed. Following a new Allied strategy in February 2010, NATO called on members, and thereby the Republic of Croatia to contribute to NATO's training mission in Afghanistan as part of an ISAF operation of critical importance for success. The requirements addressed to the members of the Alliance shall be established in accordance with the assessments of the Supreme Command of Allied Forces for Europe and shall be linked to the contribution to each particular country to the ISAF Peace Operation participant. Following NATO calls from the Croatian Armed Forces, they carried out an analysis and established that there is the possibility of further involvement of trainers and mentors, so our instructors. The involvement of trainers and mentors, instructors, is scheduled in August 2010. The above-mentioned increase will also allow for the involvement of training police teams. Therefore, the Government proposes that the Croatian Parliament make this decision which increases the current approval of the size of our members' participation in the ISAF peace operation through an increase of up to 300 members of the current size for 20 new members. Which means that in 2010 and 2011, in Operation ISAF in Afghanistan, up to 320 members of our Armed Forces would be able to participate with the possibility of rotation. It is proposed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines the duration of rotation, number and organisational structure of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for each rotation. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to report every 6 months to the Croatian Parliament on the status of peace operation and the work of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan. The proposed decision proposes to put off the valid decision of the Croatian Parliament of December 2009 concerning the participation of up to 300 members during this year. The proposed increase in the number of members of the Armed Forces in the peace operation in Afghanistan is a direct contribution to further implementation of our share in the construction and stability of Afghanistan. The proposed increase concerns the contribution to a new Allied initiative aimed at creating a self-sustaining and effective system, as well as improving the internal structure of our existing forces in the framework of a peace operation in Afghanistan. The financial resources for the implementation of this Decision in 2010 were planned and secured in the state budget at the division of the Ministry of Defence, and in 2011 they will be secured in the state budget at the division of the Ministry of Defence in accordance with the planned projections of the Ministry of Defence's 2011 financial plan. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I propose on behalf of the Croatian Government that the Croatian Parliament make a new decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan for 2010 and 2011 as you received from the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52358	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, Honorable representative Ante Kotromanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52359	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary, gentlemen of the Assistant. It's good to see you today and the Secretary of Defense here as well as yesterday on the Defence Committee we had. However, this is an important mission and we are making an important decision to send our 20 members more than we had before. And that's, of course, the point. Each decision is as it is and can make good and bad things. Like so far, the SDP club will support the decision to send our members of the Croatian Army to Afghanistan and to increase from 300 to 320 people. We know that this is also what the minister in the introduction of a non-combat mission, a mission that will mainly deal with training and training of members of the security forces of the Afghan army and police. We know the state of this force and what kind of help it needs, they're now planned somewhere around 140,000 to be members of the Afghan security forces. We know what a security situation is up there in that space, we know that a space that is absolutely impossible to treat as a safe zone and that any going up in that context can cause trouble for members of all the countries up there in Afghanistan. We know that the security situation has deteriorated somewhat, since spring is coming, that every time the Taliban, worse forces that are contrary to this other side that during the spring they are slowly gathering, preparing that during the winter they have collected enough reserves, reserves in arms and food, and that now that it is most convenient to hit convoys, to command buildings, to do certain terrorist attacks, to ambush, and now I say the most convenient time and there until the 9, 10 months it will be a security situation such that it will require enormous effort from all members of the contingent Croatian Army... to keep the security maximum, to preserve its people for whom they are worse responsible. Before I say a few more words, I say this is a mission, which we don't have much to say about, we made before the decision, this is a decision by all of us, every decision we make to send members of the Croatian Army to any mission is a mission to keep the peace decisions of all of us, and no matter what happens in that space, and what's good or bad, it's the responsibility of all of us, we have to take responsibility for what's good and what's bad and in this context we have to be absolutely unique, because I don't want a bird of the villain, but unfortunately it's always the law of numbers, and there can always be something that can happen that's unpredictable and that can result in trouble for our members. I will refer to this and I will mention the case of Captain Pavkovic, you have heard of a young gentleman, a dear officer, a brilliant officer who came from a mission in Afghanistan who had a serious car accident when he lost two legs, showed great will and effort to stay in the Croatian Army, there I will thank the Ministry of Defence for finding him a place, and this is a good practice and example that these people are not being sent into retirement but are being implemented into the system, so he will be able to revive the additional strength and energy, a man who was great during the Homeland War, and now we need to guide everything he has done to create the Croatian Army and here to maintain peace in Afghanistan, and we need to support all of us here in the Assembly, but I will refer in a way that several ministers have been saying here that maybe the insurance system is not the best. We have done great work for members of the Croatian Army who were in the Homeland War, who remained 100% disabled, today is 100% disabled, with no two legs, amputated two legs and perhaps should seriously consider that for our members, God forbid something worse happens in Afghanistan, in... and other UN missions to provide those members, and we need as defenders from the Homeland War who are 100% disabled, 80% disabled and thus treat them in the course of retirement or when they are injured. I think this system is now what it is but that we should in this, we all hope there won't be such examples that we won't have a lot of cases where we might apply this law if we're going to solve it differently, but I think we have to ensure exactly everything that these people have a complete sense of protection when they go up and when they come back here. So I ask the Minister that we may consider seeing how we can handle this, simply start applying the Law on Defence to those soldiers, officers and police officers who go into dangerous missions and say the situation if we come to the worst that we can at least provide for people who are now also in one kind of war. The second thing I want to say is the same thing when these people come back here we already have a few generations of people who have been up, three times, members of the Military Police, members of the professional units have already been up twice, we can expect these people to have a certain health problem, problems with PTSD, and we need to do something to rehabilitate people when they get back here. We have many resorts within the Ministry of Defence or nearer inpleter which manages the property, such as the Baška Water Hotel... I think we should allow these people when they return from their mission to with their family such as the practice in other countries at a reasonable price, to cover the costs of allowing these people some rehabilitation, professional, health and health leave somewhere in those 7, 10 days depends on the conditions and opportunities of both the Ministry and these hotels and these people in the area such as Baska Water, Hotel... or any other space in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I think it would mean a lot that, in the context of that, maybe the ministries... these people psychologists, the psychiatrists who will deal with these people when they come back, who will prepare them for what is once again working in life when there are no more tensions, adrenaline, such that they have to be around every day and act like animals who are ready to bite and who are ready to get hit by the same thing. I think that in this context, we have Captain Pavkovic's case, and we will continue to send our members into various missions, we do not know what can be opened tomorrow, who can re-warn tomorrow, so we will need a few hundred people or a few dozen people again, and in that context, Mr. Minister, I will pray that these two things may be considered. A way to ensure people who get hurt or get hurt, and a way to rehabilitate people who will come back from space like Afghanistan, the Goranic highlands and other missions where our people live. We know that maybe it's not the best time when we've made a decision to send our members of the Croatian Army to Afghanistan, because we've all been affected by the crisis, we know that the Ministry of Defense has hit a crisis that has reduced considerable resources, and here I'm going to tell the representatives again what I told the Minister yesterday, we MPs have to fight that if we spoke, we've defined the Ministry of Defence's obligations if we're going to have 18 thousand soldiers, that we're going to have up to 500 soldiers on missions outside, these are international recognised obligations, we have to act and defend together, now it's more I'm talking now as a soldier of the Ministry of Defense who has a mission, and that's the work of the Ministry of Defence with living people. These people need to eat, these people need to train, these people need to get paid, it's not easy now for these people to get billions of kuna, and we have 18 thousand people who are not a big army, but in relation to the resources we have a large army, we'll probably have maintenance problems now and how to secure military life for all those people in Croatia and beyond. In that context, it's not the best year when we see that one soldier that we send out on a mission costs about 200 thousand dollars, which is a million kuna of ministers, and that's going to be an increase of about 20 million kuna. And yet on the other hand, we see how Croatian highways, for example. They cut benefits for defenders, 100% disabled and 80% disabled, where they want to save 20 million kunas. I just want to point out that we are completely diametrically opposed to how we function when we need to save when we need to spend something. And that's why I'm saying that we're going to specifically insist through the Defence Committee that the next financial year be better than this year because with these resources we simply... we can't... And I feel bad for the Department of Defense because I'm... I need to patch up a bunch of holes that are really serious and big. We are... and a strategic plan for the development of the Croatian Army and we must work on and do some things to correct it. I see this phase of going up to Afghanistan as a phase of the exit strategy. Now NATO's mission is in phase three. The stage 4 is being prepared, and phase 4 is an exit strategy. Now it's 20 of our instructor officers, which I think is a good decision in the sense that in due course we'll be able to withdraw a part of the soldier. And that's why I see it as an exit strategy. And I think it must be the Department of Defense's policy when we send up 50 officers and officers who can do security training and that we can pull the soldiers back. The coefficient of one soldier, officer and officer, instructor is ratio 1:10. So one officer is worth 10 soldiers up there. I think that this decision should be supported in this context and in this context should be supported by the Ministry of Defence and the President of the Republic. But we believe that we must see it as an exit strategy and a strategy for leaving the Croatian Army from Afghanistan when the time comes. To make the mission worse, four are important things and I will emphasize them. This is the training that the Croatian military must carry out here in the country, it is the leadership and command that must be provided at the highest level, so these commanders must be experienced, operational, near their army, responsible for conduct, for security, for discipline. The third element and the key thing is logistics, so you have to provide all the conditions, the best equipment for people who are up there so that they can successfully carry out their mission and not embarrass ourselves up there. Up there are members of several dozen countries who are also in conditions as well as we who are also asking their soldiers everything. And that's why it's very important that segment of logistics. And the fourth element is security. Security is the most important thing right now, security is important, and we secure security here through these three elements. And, of course, an assessment of the security and situation upstairs in Afghanistan itself and the behavior of our soldiers that must be absolutely appropriate in all respects of how it is seen and how it should be military. I don't have much more to say on this subject. We will support this decision and hope that this mission and the increase will contribute to the real security of the situation in Afghanistan. I hope that our people who are up there and going upstairs will come back alive and well. And I hope that this mission in Afghanistan will end successfully in a way that we will take experience from different armies above, and that we will contribute to the fact that the Croatian Army is shown in good light, and Croatian politics in good light in terms of preserving order and maintaining peace in Afghanistan. Mr. Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52360	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh, the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52361	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There is one in a series of decisions made by the Croatian Parliament under the Croatian Constitution, and this is about the engagement of Croatian military forces in international military missions. Let us remember Croatia was the scene of rough conquest work and the place where various international military missions worked, as part of preserving peace and separation, as part of implementing the peaceful reintegration of part of the country. In this sense, Croatia with its concrete experience probably has a completely different and more complex approach to this issue than some other countries participating in international military missions of the UN, or NATO alliance. And NATO membership commits us in a different way and through a different profile of participation in these international military missions. And it should be said that the Republic of Croatia participates in a dozen such missions based on Croatian Parliament decisions. And this ISAP mission, so the mission in Afghanistan is certainly the biggest, most demanding, most expensive, perhaps even most dangerous. Along with it is the mission to Golanska Visoravna, there are also missions in Kosovo, Chad, Somalia. However, this is certainly the most important, because of the total budget allocated for these purposes, almost 90% of all funds go to equipment and to the maintenance of our military mission in Afghanistan. When we look at what it looks like financially, then for this mission in 2007, the Republic of Croatia spent 160 million kuna in 2008, about 250 million kuna, 2009. 266.5 million kuna. Now in 2010 a total of peace missions in the Republic of Croatia budget envisioned around 333 million kuna and we should get an answer in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to provide sufficient financial resources for the proposed increase. In fact, the increase is about 10%, so we assume whether or not the quota would be worth increasing the funds allocated to this peacekeeping mission as part of the overall military presence of the Republic of Croatia and our Armed Forces in world peace missions. But we still don't know because neither the budget rebalance is announced, nor the additional funds are reported how much it's actually going to cost us. The only information we have available, and mostly from the media, is that the U.S. government has approved permanent financial assistance specifically for the purpose of increasing our contingent in Afghanistan. However, it should be said that this is not a technical decision. The Croatian Parliament has been regularly deciding on these issues since the 12th century. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia has never engaged its military forces to cross the border of the Republic of Croatia without the Croatian Parliament deciding on this. In this regard, we expect that constitutional changes will also go in this direction so as not to go along with the Government's proposal to reduce the powers of the Croatian Parliament, but to preserve them, to preserve these powers. In that sense, I hope that these powers will be exercised. When we talk about our mission in Afghanistan, it is impossible to realize only technical support or what is formally our part of the task in Afghanistan, which is training, training of Afghan police forces without insight into specific political circumstances, and even in the overall gauges of the international peace mission in Afghanistan, which many people call an occupation mission. And we need to be aware of that, because the political framework in which this mission is taking place is increasingly complicated. The mission's been going on for nine years, and the results are gone. We must be aware that one of the biggest, one of the biggest weights on the results of the peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan, or the military engagement of international forces in Afghanistan, is an incredible increase in the production of narcotics in Afghanistan. It is obvious that neither the Afghan government nor the international military forces found in the country have been able to do anything effective to curb the production and distribution of narcotics that are unfortunately highly esteemed, well-paid in this consumer world and form the basis for a black and therefore criminal market that eats thousands of lives in the world. It is one of the worrying facts as concerns that the International Community has had large reserves according to the results of the presidential elections recently held in Afghanistan where President Karzai was unable to form a government. And there are still difficulties in being in open conflict with, say, the leading force of international forces in Afghanistan. We saw that two weeks ago, it was completely unannounced in Afghanistan that President Obama of the United States and that President Karzai threatened to rebel in the mountains and leave with the Taliban. In such circumstances, 300 of our members of the Armed Forces resides in Afghanistan mainly in bases in Cavcaran, Mazar-i Sharif and Kabul. These are three zones or three cities that do not fall into a high risk area, given the intensity of military activities, but certainly are not places for picnics and excursions, but places where there is a very serious part of military tasks, or the mission of a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan. The increase that this is about has actually led Croatia to 14th place on the scale of participation in the Afghanistan mission more than 40 countries. The fact is that beneath us are some countries that are not only financially but also demographic, but also the capacity of their armed forces far greater and more capable than we can claim for ourselves. So our share of it is above average. We also need to get information on what the Ministry of Defence has done, what the Defence Ministry's Chiefs have done to eliminate the problems encountered in the functioning of the peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan. Let us remind ourselves that in September of last year, an incident broke out in which four members of the Military Police refused orders due to allegedly poor equipment, a lack of vests and parts of personal weapons and were withdrawn from the mission to the Republic of Croatia's home. At that time, we were also witnessing statements by the president of the union of military personnel and state services who warned that the Chief Staff and the Ministry did not care enough about the quality logistics support of our mission and that it felt the most through a poorly implemented public procurement system. So for example, our contingent through which nearly 590 soldiers went through last year alone, so they had a whole series of supply problems, and this banal supply, for example, with shirts, where on the lager there are reportedly 5,000 shirts, but all number 37 or some others that are completely unsuitable to our boys who are engaged there. Therefore, it is obvious that the public procurement system has not been so prepared from Zagreb that in time and effective monitoring of the needs of our forces and the fact is that in such circumstances our soldiers in Afghanistan are doing great. The fact is also that the result of our participation in the mission is several times commended, but I would not stress it especially because there is this awareness and a tendency that when they commend us then we think that we should engage or sacrifice even harder while others actually reduce the level of our engagement in our account. What concerns us is also a long-term concept of international forces in Afghanistan. Does the Republic of Croatia as a participant of this alliance have an exit strategy and are we aware that such an international mission does not actually give great, concrete, definitive results that will allow us to leave Afghanistan very soon? We are interested in whether, as an ally in this story, we are informed of a new exit strategy, that is, the four-year strategy that the United States as the leading force of that alliance has in Afghanistan. We would like to hear all of this on occasion when we have to make a decision on the engagement of 20 additional soldiers and, of course, under the circumstances in which the Ministry of Defence faces financial difficulties that have limited, for example, the number of recruits that the Croatian Army is receiving in its ranks. Here we had the opportunity in the media yesterday to hear the statement of Minister Vukelic, which confirms, that because of financial difficulties we cannot accept all interested recruits who voluntarily want to serve the Croatian Army. And on the other hand, the duration of this recruiting program is reduced from 14 weeks to 8 weeks. So, in these circumstances of our own financial difficulties, under the circumstances of the political framework in which our mission is taking place in Afghanistan, under the circumstances of not knowing the exit strategy of the allies who have already been engaged in Afghanistan, we have to make a decision. But I don't think we're well informed about it. I think it would be my turn that the motionor, and above all, that the Government who brings this proposal gives us additional information, and I hope that there will be opportunities in the final address and Minister Vukelic so that this House can mature within itself a decision on whether or not he wants to accept this mission. As for the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats, we will support the engagement of 20 additional soldiers in our International Mission in Afghanistan. But we are looking for these clarifications because I think we owe the least to the Croatian public, the taxpayers who finance our peacekeeping missions this year with over 333 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52362	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ club, distinguished representative Mato Biljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52363	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a new Allied strategy foresees that in the next 4 years you will train Afghan national forces to act independently and take full responsibility for the country's security. At the same time, the Allied forces should bridge the lack of security capacity by 2013 and provide sufficient resources for the training of Afghan national forces. In a peace operation, forces from 44 NATO countries and friends, or partners, are currently particulating. The total number of sizes is approximately 90,000, and it is expected to grow to 125,000 soldiers. One of the objectives is to train and equip Afghan soldiers and raise operational capabilities and engage in anti-rebel operations and train and equip the Afghan police for police work. Our members of the Armed Forces, since 12 December 2002, have been involved since 28 February 2003 in the ISAF operation with 150 soldiers. And currently in the peace operation, the 15th Croatian National Contingent has been deployed, consisting of 294 members. Following a new Allied strategy in February 2010, NATO urged its members, and thus the Republic of Croatia to contribute to NATO's training mission in Afghanistan. Following NATO's call, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia carried out an analysis and opportunity and responded positively to the possibility of further involvement of trainers and mentors to go in August 2010. It is therefore proposed to increase the currently approved size of the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF peacekeeping operation from 300 to 320 members in 2010 and 2011. This NATO call for the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces is a great recognition and it is not by any chance due to the need for 10, 15 or 20 soldiers, but has come to oversee NATO instructors, NATO experts who have been on our military polygons and have determined what Croatia has today on military polygons, which it has and has not asked us for pedestrians with rifles in hand but have sought intelligence, have sought people who will train. Let's remember, yesterday they were warriors, today they're mentors, they're trainers. Surely it is a great recognition because these new 20 girls and boys who go beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia will be proud of the Republic of Croatia. Although there is always a likelihood and a possibility that there are certain problems. The soldier is a soldier. As there is danger in the minefield as well as in traffic and in all other activities. All of our members have so far shown with little difficulty on the ground themselves that they have done their tasks professionally and have been proud of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And here at the end of my presentation to all our girls and boys who out of the Republic of Croatia are taking important tasks and responsibilities to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, I want them to be professional in their duties and to return happily to their homes and their families. I say once again that it is a great recognition for the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces because it is certain to choose in such a mission where hundreds more thousands of people should train to be able to guard their country, to look for instructors from the Republic of Croatia, our boys who were warriors until yesterday, from warriors with great experience, with the training they have survived and have helped us in the Homeland War another, I think it is honorable and correct that we send without distinction to all risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52364	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52365	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of our debate, we would like to say that the HSS supports the text in question of the draft decision because its implementation by the Republic of Croatia further strengthens integration into the peace mission in Afghanistan and thus supports the objectives and tasks of foreign policy. As regards the contribution to building and preserving peace and security in Afghanistan, we believe that some of the following facts are also needed in connection with this peacekeeping mission. Strengthening our capabilities in this peacekeeping mission confirms commitment to the objectives of the anti-terrorism coalition and thus strengthens the political and military credibility of Croatia as well as members of the NATO alliance. Croatia is harmonising its foreign and security policy with the positions and actions of the UN and NATO alliances offering it the strengthening of its capabilities and the strengthening of its forces, i.e. to 320 members. The increase in the number of our members in the mission will surely bring their problems, challenges and tasks to meet in Afghanistan as well as the tasks of the Ministry of Defence, especially the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the management and management structure as a whole. It is primarily because this mission is, by the scale and structure of the activities, the most demanding in relation to other missions around the world in which the Republic of Croatia is involved. This continues to make it easier for our members not to have a mandate, nor to declare their capacity to carry out offensive combat actions, to carry out counter-terrorism and anti-narcotic operations. Clear except in cases of direct threat to your own safety. Analyzing Croatia's contribution to the peace mission so far, we hope that this additional contingent of forces will be well prepared and will successfully represent Croatia and the Armed Forces and will be well adapted to the conditions on the ground, mode of operation and operation in the mission itself. Of course, we hope that the same will not have trouble filling up as well as restoring weapons, means of transport, communication opportunities and living and working conditions. We hope that the problems we have so far on this issue will be reduced to the greatest possible measure. In the further part of the debate, we want to highlight the problem of dislocating our forces in the mission, so we will have 320 members at some 5.6 locations in Afghanistan. We are therefore interested in what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing at national international level to round up our forces, we know that this would be of multiple benefit to our members and to us. Hypothetically, 320 members scattered in Afghanistan do not represent a more significant force, while clearly in one place would be an inevitable force. We hope that all learned and acquired experiences will be applied to a sufficient extent to successfully and fully accomplish these tasks that have been put before this mission and before our members. Finally, I would like to commend all members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, police and civilian personnel participating in peacekeeping missions around the world for the successful performance of all tasks in the missions in which the Republic of Croatia participates. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the proposed Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52366	Thank you. And the IDS Club's esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52367	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Croatia has nearly 300 soldiers in Afghanistan, or to be more precise today in Afghanistan, Croatia has 294 soldiers. With this Decision, what a lost mission to Afghanistan, we send another 20 soldiers or, say, two days before our first visit to Brussels and Strasbourg, President Josipovic mentioned or mentioned that Croatia could, even before this decision, send 26 more soldiers. My advice would be not to do so and to withdraw the army from this lost mission from Afghanistan. Why? Because it's our turn. There's gonna be our boys in those hills of Afghanistan thousands of miles away from their home clumps, and then they're gonna ask themselves a question about who and why? Who's going to express their condolences to their mothers the next day? Okay, I agree that they're volunteers, they're professionals, they've chosen such a military call themselves, they've applied themselves to go to Afghanistan, until now they're lucky they're hanging out and their training hasn't happened to anyone, but I'm afraid the worst thing can happen to some of them tomorrow. Finally, who is in or outside this Assembly today who believe that NATO, America, etc., can win a war in Afghanistan. In all countries that send their soldiers to Afghanistan, debates are being held openly in parliaments so that troops should withdraw to their homeland as soon as possible. And just before, Mr Biljic Mate, a representative of the HDZ Club, found that a huge recognition was issued to Croatia about sending 20 more soldiers to Afghanistan. You can imagine what kind of confession would be given to us if you sent another 1,000 or 2,000 soldiers to Afghanistan. If America is at a turning point to pull an army out of Iraq, where tomorrow it wouldn't be ready to do Croatia. The Americans mentioned a speech just before about the exit strategy within four years. It is true that Croatia is a NATO member, a mission led by NATO generals, it is clear that everything is subordinated, I would say on the other hand on some American interests, but it is actually in the next. In Afghanistan, the Russians or the Soviets have failed in time, I'm afraid neither these Americans nor NATO will succeed. Here, gentlemen on page 3 literally says that in a peace operation, I quote "ISOFA is currently participating forces from 44 NATO countries and other partner countries, the total numbering size is about 90,000 Allied forces on today, and according to the announced contributions, there are expected to be a rise in the numerical size of the ISOFA to 125,000 soldiers," a quote by page 3 of this Decision. This will say that the number of Croatian soldiers will increase relatively quickly, and let us be aware of that to at least 400, I fear it could soon be more than 400. If it's from these 90 grand to 125 grand it's a 30 percent increase, so let's count, 320 times 30% it's brother to brother, about 400 soldiers. How much is it now? On page 5, literally, financial resources for the implementation of this decision were planned and secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia at the level of the Ministry of Defence and in 2011 will be secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the division of the Ministry of Defence in line with the planned projections of the Ministry of Defence's 2011 financial plan. It's a done quote. The numbers are not listed here, but the figures have already been mentioned for this pay phone. I dare say or claim that one soldier in Afghanistan, with equipment, etc., per year costs taxpayers or the state budget of the circus 1 million kuna. So we're free to round up 300 soldiers somewhere equal to 300 million kuna. With 320 soldiers in Afghanistan plus an army in other missions, we're approaching somewhere at this point for these purposes we're detaching 7% of the military budget or the Ministry of Defence budget. And our allies must also keep that in mind. If I am not mistaken for the military budget of the Republic of Croatia for this year 2010, it is expressed by a figure of 4.7 billion kuna, slightly more. Between 4.7 and 4.8 billion kuna. So 333 million kuna for the 2010 missions is cca 7% military budget. It is more than the budget of the Ministry of Tourism, and we hope that tourism this year would save the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Just before, Mr. Kotromanović mentioned the suspension of disability, that transport, etc. Actually, that's just the price difference for a tunnel painting, but let's let it go now. However, after a new rebalancing, we will have to cut everything. We'll have to cut salaries, incentives, pensions, the welfare, but the costs for the boys on foreign missions, not that we won't, but we can't cut. We must even say I dare say these costs in some way and increase for their safety. And if we were going to have to cut all the costs, here's just one piece of information, I took it down today. We lost 100,000 jobs in the Republic of Croatia last year. So many employees decreased compared to 2009. He's part of the Bureau, part of it I don't know where, working on black probably, he's getting along. Part of it's retired. Is the war in Afghanistan our war now? I also have to admit, in 2000, I raised my hand to go to Afghanistan. We unanimously made that decision. But today, after ten years of not seeing the end of the war, but it is known that the war for NATO is lost, I dare say, it is indeed necessary to question the sending of troops to Afghanistan. Croatia opposed sending troops to Iraq in 2000. For five, six years now, I may not know the only one in this House who has voted against sending troops to Afghanistan because of the fear that this mission simply doesn't fail, and I'm not afraid I'm sure that anything useful will ultimately bring us nothing. That's what it would be. The war is in Afghanistan I dare to quote that I am not now citing some American generals, de facto lost. Until yesterday, our young men were situated relatively secure, now neither the country's north is safe nor what the foreign soldiers in that foreign country have witnessed. What happens if within three, four, five years the troops from Afghanistan retreat and we find that all of our engagement in that country has somehow gone to the wind like that Soviet when they were there since '78. I don't know until '90. Let's say years. I am clearly aware that Croatia was also a recipient of huge international assistance, under the patronage of the United Nations. If we hadn't been the recipients of that aid, if the United Nations hadn't given us that help, we'd probably have suffered far more of our young men in our defense. Bosnia, Kosovo, Macedonia and today are somehow recipients of this kind of international assistance. However, Croatia, Bosnia, Kosovo, I say are part of Europe, the values here are different, the mentality here is different, the circumstances were different, the historical context is significantly different and we are clearly obliged to all who have fought here with our soldiers under the umprofor hat or helmet to express gratitude, but once again I say maybe to question the return of our soldiers from Afghanistan. From the first day the first soldier entered under the blue helmet on the ground of the Republic of Croatia it was clear that the UMPROFOR mission would bear fruit, but the mission in Afghanistan would end as the Soviet one ended there in that period before the collapse of the Soviet now. So what now? What if the mission in Afghanistan fails? Will someone express their regret, whether someone will admit that we were wrong or that people's "Where all the Turks here and Little Mujo", so now we're going where the big brother simply shows us with his finger that we belong. I am personally against this decision, but I also have no doubt that in this House, that decision will again be given to the two-thirds majority. Now in four years, the Afghan government should take care of Afghanistan itself. I'm afraid that government won't last long after that. I'm afraid intervention in Iraq plus failure in Afghanistan radicalises opportunities in the world, radicalises a part of the Islamic world. To be clear, I don't think Islam is radical, so someone doesn't misquote me. But these wars of America against Iraq plus Afghanistan radicalized a part of that population and the world is today I'm afraid more insecure than it was 10 years ago yesterday. I agree that the attack that took place on September 11th on America, New York to Washington deserved an answer but that America plus NATO response was not an adequate team anymore that Iraq has in no way been involved in all those events in America since 11 September 2009, for Afghanistan is something else. But today you need to be careful with each other. What I particularly appreciate is that Mr. Kotromanovic mentioned Captain Pavkovic, the injured traffic officer on Croatian roads after returning from Afghanistan. The size of that man shows that he forgave the woman who made him unhappy. It's the size of a small number of people. That's more I'd say harder than just participating in the Homeland War or Afghanistan. To forgive today is the hardest, most honorable, bravest. There is a human size and therefore thanks to both the Croatian military and the ministry and the minister for allowing the officer to remain in the Croatian Army until his retirement. Mr. Beus also mentioned the election deficit of the current president in Afghanistan. The war is financed by opium instead of reducing it is more and more, and probably on our streets. And I agree Croatia is over represented in Afghanistan, but the point is that this mission is somehow missed. And in my court, the army should pull home. It's not easy, but we really need to start thinking about this strategy, the exit strategy. Because that's what Americans are open-minded about, and I think we should beat them to it, and we should just pull the army out of America before they do. And that's all I'm convinced is that this decision is going to get the required majority almost unanimously, but I'm still going to stick to what I've been doing for the last five, six, seven years and I'm going to be against this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52368	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52369	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's a good thing a colleague of mine is here, that he didn't run away after his exposure. Namely, I said it was a great recognition for the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces because we were invited to send military instructors, trainers. So the ability, the equipment, the expertise and the military's brains, not just the soldiers for the trench. That's what I said, and you said I said 20 soldiers. And in addition to everything we've sent, it means that we're sending in instructors, trainers, trained people, equipped, professional, there we're sending human people, and that's what our captain showed who was killed when he came back from Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52370	Thank you. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52371	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, you are not the only one voting against the departure of our troops to Afghanistan, but also the HDSSB club. And secondly, you said that the UNPROFOR mission quotes "made fruit" in the Republic of Croatia. I think she's only partially helped, and the flash and storm of military-redacted action have yielded fruit.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52372	It's a correction to an incorrect quote. We're going to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52373	Dear Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is a NATO member. As with every membership, so does our NATO membership create certain obligations for members. That's not controversial. Secondly, soldiers who go on missions, whether it's NATO or UN missions, decide on it in the Parliament. And thirdly, there are a large number of them when they make such a decision are motivated and able to make a solid profit, a great risk that is true, but also profit. I note this by removing the dilemmas under which conditions and circumstances soldiers who go on a mission go there. However, what concerns me, Mr. Minister, is that you have not described the NATO exit strategy from Afghanistan more clearly in the light of this proposal. Moreover, you write that the whole concept of surgery has five phases, that it is now in phase three, which would be called stabilisation, that the fourth phase of transition is only being prepared. And now I'm surprised by the fact that so far 90,000 Allied forces have been engaged from 44 states, and that an increase of 35,000 is planned. So the total contingent of foreign soldiers in Afghanistan would be 125,000. How many more Croatia besides these 320 will have to participate in this increase by 35,000? I'm sure Washington's request for these extra 20 isn't a final request. And I ask if you have data from other countries participating in a peacekeeping mission regarding the number of inhabitants and the economic strength of the participation of Croatia, proportionately or disproportionately? Take other countries with about 4 and a half million inhabitants, with a gross social product somewhere around 10,000 per capita, and whether Italy, France, Germany participates in the mission in proportion to those indicators. But not just in that one. I would ask you to give a list of participating countries in the future when you come with such arguments before the Parliament for each mission within NATO and the United Nations. So, not the number 44 that are countries and how many of them have hired mission members. How many Slovenias are there in Afghanistan? How many Hungarian soldiers are there in Afghanistan? How many Italian soldiers are there in Afghanistan? The cost of the mission, not only in Afghanistan, but all missions are covered by the Croatian state budget. I think that Croatia, like any other member, has the right to call for proportionate participation, economic strength and population. And it is not true that every request that is put before Croatia as a member of NATO or the United Nations must be implemented in order to get praise that we are a very cooperative partner. I have not heard from anyone in NATO that Slovenia has criticised for inoperableness that their participation in missions is relatively economical. They didn't get the pucks, they're not on the pillar of shame, they're not on the blacklist. But they set themselves up like that from the beginning. We boast and say it's an honor for the Republic of Croatia to say send another 20 soldiers. If the mission increases by another 35 thousand, it means that Croatia will belong to at least 100 additional ones, and that is why it would appeal, pray, that you, too, are also setting up those who decide in Croatia and that you are always giving us information not only of the total number, the total members of the countries participating in the mission but also of who has who. And in the end, you wrote that money is secured or envisaged in the state budget for this year and that it will be for the next year as well. How much? How much does this mission cost Croatia for 2010? And how much will it cost for 2011? How much does Croatia spend on all the missions that we participate in either within NATO or the UN? How much is that compared to other members? I am not asking these demands and questions to seek an alibi for why I will be against this proposal, but because I believe that every NATO member has the right to be asked in this way, that Croatia should not receive recognitions and honours by having some of its membership obligations above its capabilities so that the Minister, Prime Minister or the President of the State will be patted on the shoulders when they are in Washington or when someone from Washington comes to Croatia and therefore pats us on the shoulders that we are very good. Croatia is in crisis. The government has announced an economic recovery programme that contains a reduction in all costs, all expenditures for the benefit of the population. Is the programme also designed to reduce the costs of participating in missions? I didn't find it. What are these arguments that Croatia is facing demands beyond its economic potential? Were such demands on the Croatian side even put on the table to be criteria? I understand all those who want to get international praise for co-operation, for participating, that they get at the price as government members or prime ministers, heads of state, but ultimately the country's taxpayers pay for it. That's why no one pats them on the shoulder. Yes, Croatia has also used the peace mission to prevent a large number of victims, destruction and damage. That's right. And we invited them to come to Croatia. But when they came, it was precisely that criterion of proportionality that was very present, and they set certain conditions for Croatia as recipients of that assistance. As long as you do not explain such a proposal for a decision and economic indicators, comparing with other members participating in the mission, we can compare ourselves and see how far we are above, below, or this is an even schedule of burdens within NATO I will not. This will be the first time I will vote against increasing the Croatian contingent in Afghanistan because you have not given answers to key questions at the last such request. And that is why I will vote against for the first time and always vote against in the future if I do not get answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52374	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that it's in accordance with the law. Article 207(2) The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes in 10.38 minutes. And now it is up to individual debates, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52375	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. So here is a new proposal for approval and a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peace operation in Afghanistan. In fact, several proposals that have been passed over the past year are certainly this one on 20-member increase is not something special, but it has resulted in a new strategy for the Allied Party that envisions over the next 4 years training the Afghan national and security force for independent action. Taking full responsibility for the country's security, but the government of Afghanistan also asked NATO and the international community to help train and monitor their police as well as their security forces and military forces. And certainly, as we can see, the concept, the strategic concept of the operation in Afghanistan, is divided into phase 5 and that the immediate force of all 44 countries participating in NATO is in phase 3 or, as it is clear, unequivocally stems from the fact that it is a phase of stabilisation and transition to phase 4 when it is a transition. The 5th phase also envisions the withdrawal from Afghanistan from the peacekeeping mission, but only when local and state forces will function at least so that the state of Afghanistan can lead both politically and economically and when the results will be visible. But they need more intense efforts and an increase in strength that we now believe is not enough. Certainly 90,000 Allied forces expect this growth that has been launched, as well as the operations that have been done and the response to operations by the Taliban to be sure and ask for additional training of domestic forces that are best known to the field, which can knowingly and nationally and which want Afghanistan to become a state that will operate on laws, which will not allow terrorists, especially the Taliban, to do what is not good and what is illegal. So far we have had in the ISAF mission certainly good results and successes and all praises as visible. This does not mean the Prime Ministers, nor the Minister alone, but it means the presentation of the Croatian State and Croatian Armed Forces in the world, and especially with US officials who surely look at Croatia, realize that the financial support that has certainly come, which is envisaged, of which the minister will say something more will be good for Croatia and the Armed Forces. I hope that these 20 soldiers that are scheduled for the 10th and 12th years will contribute to that important goal, which is the training of the Afghan forces, the monitoring of the implementation and that it will certainly contribute to the stabilisation of the war wind that is in those areas. It is difficult not to look back at the politicisation or speculation that comes from those who came from the beginning of this law, and decisions on the participation of our forces today as a war is meaningless in Afghanistan, the action failed and such epithets they attach certainly do not have their place because it is certain that the increase in strength and operations that have been made certainly won results but also as in the training of domestic forces, I believe that this reference of 20 members who will certainly help in training and monitoring are welcome and that the Republic of Croatia will certainly get their reputation in the world with this new small contingent which does not mean too much but certainly is a good opportunity to further perfect our officers, officers and soldiers. And the experiences gained there are certainly good experiences that could not be gained many times in training in the Republic of Croatia but are well prepared to train all those who are there from the domestic contingent and who will have to carry out these tasks in their homeland, Afghanistan. I believe that not too much of the state budget will be with these 20 members made it difficult and that this all that is said that someone is against leaving and that against sending these 20 soldiers is a purely political decision of individuals who do not see the reality, place of the Republic of Croatia and its Armed Forces to the NATO Alliance. I believe that by the time you vote, you may change your opinion and that you will certainly make a two-thirds decision on a contingent of 20 ISAF members in Afghanistan. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52376	Thank you. There is a further individual debate, the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague and colleague in this House very often we discuss this mission in Afghanistan either through a report debate, whether through a decision to refer to a larger or smaller number of our troops, this time it's an increase of 20 soldiers compared to the current 300. Such debates are of course the government explains why our soldiers are there, and the opportunity for the opposition to show responsibility that the Croatian Army and everything that has to do with the Armed Forces and, in particular, with their international action does not treat them as a political issue. In that sense, since 2003, the first decision has been taken by the government's consensus on sending troops to Afghanistan by consensus of ruling and opposition even though then the opposition HDZ party was opposed to sending our forces to Afghanistan the morning before the vote, but during that Friday morning they showed little greater responsibility and that's good. In these 7 years of the stay of our soldiers in Afghanistan, we are fortunately not injured, however, it should be said that regardless of whether our soldiers are in the north where it is more secure, in Kabul where something medium safe or in the south where it is least safe, we should say and be aware that the same as in Croatia during the war there was absolutely no safe place so in that country, at this point there is absolutely no safe place. In that sense, there is even greater responsibility on us that, by our votes, by our decisions, we decide that our soldiers be, go or stay there. What kind of directs our debate, our action is that still when selecting soldiers who go to Afghanistan that still a large number of soldiers want to go on that peace mission than there is room for our decisions at this point. But the question is, what if it were the opposite? We can look ourselves in the eye and say to our colleagues and colleagues, that today's debates would not be more or less in agreement, but certainly debates would be very different, and in this case, public opinion would be very different, because we must say that there are no major organised or any other resistances and also this increase and participation, I am not talking about public resistance to political structures, the participation of our soldiers in this peace mission, regardless of all the controversy and dilemmas we have about the current situation in that country, the stability of the government and the president, the way they act, relations with the Taliban, etc. Probably our discussions would be different and therefore we can thank both Croatian soldiers and members of the Armed Forces for our discussions being somewhat peaceful and consistent. As a result, when asked which institution they trust most, the largest number corresponds most to trust in the Croatian Army. And indeed, the Republic of Croatia is currently participating among the countries participating in the largest number of peacekeeping missions, most of our peacekeeping missions contain a large number of our soldiers, a one-digit number of up to 10, but this is kind of an indicator, that medal has two sides. One is that the Republic of Croatia, that the Croatian Army is appreciated by allies by the international community, because they want to see us in areas where there is a need. It was also in some way a return to the moral debt of our moral debt to the international community, which in the 1990s engaged in the Republic of Croatia stopped the war, made it possible for such a truce and made it possible for a better organisation of the Croatian Army, which then freed Croatia in the actions of Bljesak, Storm. And in some ways, as counterpart Cain mentioned, that today we should be a NATO member and be at the threshold of the European Union. It was not quite easy for soldiers from Jordan, Argentina, the Czech Republic to come to Croatia, and probably since there were members of the UMPROFOR contingent, the UNKRO as they were already called during the war, there were people who were killed and it was certainly difficult for the governments of those countries to justify themselves in their own countries, in their parliaments and in front of their public, which is why they were engaged there. So, the fact that we're in a large number of missions has one side, and there's another side, and that's that we're still slowly looking for where we want to be and how we want to participate, and that we're still sort of spreading and accepting all the calls we've received. Now, whether this year, whether next year or in the coming years, when of course we have a little more experience in it, we should see as we talk about Afghanistan about concentrating forces so that we can see that the number of missions we participate in and that our participation is a little bit more serious and a little less symbolic, although of course every soldier who goes into the thorny area in the world can't be said that this participation is symbolic because his life is in one way or another in a greater or less danger, etc. To make a joint decision as to what our strategy will be for participation in peacekeeping missions. As far as the situation in Afghanistan is concerned, the best way to say is that both our NATO ally is the United States and NATO very often mention something called the exit strategy. It is up to politics to decide what strategy it will be and what will happen in Afghanistan. It is up to the soldiers to implement this political decision, and it is in the Republic of Croatia that as far as possible and as far as our state interests are concerned, it participates in the creation of such a policy as it can be. This is certainly what colleagues used to say in terms of size, population numbers, on the one hand, but also on the other hand, the fact that every NATO ally is equally valuable, especially as far as voting rights and veto rights are concerned. It is up to us to see how we will use our position in further discussions. In any case, it's not good to create an atmosphere, and I'd still have to look back on it, if we were willing to respond positively to every big brother's call. That's not true. We had a case that we didn't want to engage in Iraq even though it was calls and pressures to do it. We also had the case that we did not want to accept an amendment to the article that made it impossible for US citizens to be extradited to the international court, which is why we were suspended from military aid, but it is also the fact that we accepted certain requests because we consider the country an ally. In the coalition government's policy there is then Minister Picula, he once said that because of his importance that the United States has become a neighbour to every country in the world de facto and that we can agree on. So no doubt the U.S. influence is great. But we also have to admit that when the Republic of Croatia's admission to NATO in Slovenia had been slightly cooked, it also allowed silent diplomacy to ease the opposition of some forces there and that they helped us in this way. Therefore, Croatia's international policy and international position is in some ways not static, it is dynamic and there are various forces. And that's why I think this decision is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and that's why I'm voting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52378	Thank you. We have an announcement. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the I call the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament the 48th session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, which will be held on 29 April, today at 13:30 at Stjepan Radić's Hall (133). Agenda on amendments to the proposal for a decision on accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The chairman of the board, Vladimir Shex. Let's move on with the individual debate, it's up to the distinguished representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52379	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about a subject as complex as this one and it's not very simple given the responsibility of the decision we're making, and it's about sending our people to an apparent insecure area. But of course, since the Republic of Croatia is part of a family that struggles against as little uncertainty and terrorism as possible in the world and in some ways we have assumed our obligations to join NATO normally that we must approach this topic responsibly. I will also say at the beginning to support this decision, no matter how happy I am not, whenever we send more of our people anywhere in the world where something might happen to them, or where there is certain uncertainty. Why are we sending them? Something about it I said in this opening part, so we have made certain commitments and we have to participate, of course, in accordance with our opportunities in certain actions that these obligations involve throughout the world. Are they sure, colleague Bauk said something, and I think it's not good to discuss where it's less or more secure, where our soldiers are more or less exposed to whether in northern Afghanistan greater security, when we think of an incident where our soldiers were involved in the Kunduz province in 2007, where, fortunately, no one was killed, but they ran into an explosive device, and it was possible that someone in that incident was injured. So we are aware of all the risks this action poses, but we must, of course, ensure that our soldiers are as secure as possible, as equipped as possible, in some way and as ready as possible to carry out all their tasks in front of them. In this way, I was forced by one myself to tell me a picture, or one cartoon from that whole story about Afghanistan where I read and received information that the US military donated to Croatian transport vehicles which do not satisfy them during their actions, or when using their units, and that they are developing new vehicles that will use their troops in Afghanistan and thus decided to donate a large number of vehicles to different countries and between them and Croatia. I only hope that these vehicles will not be used unless they have met the standard of the American army or in the activities carried out by Croatian soldiers. What I want to point out normally is that the environment when we talk about these topics is much more favourable than if anyone had died in Afghanistan. And of course, feelings in public and that the pressure of the public would be much greater if it happened that some of our soldiers were killed in Afghanistan. And hopefully that's not going to happen in any way. But what I would point out and it is important in all activities, during all actions involving Croatian soldiers in the world I would like our negotiators or our people involved in this, in decisions how many soldiers Croatia should and where to send into consideration some relevant facts. I'll say Afghanistan. Germany has four and a half thousand soldiers. The German army in active composition is about 20, not quite 20, 17, 18 times more than the Croatian Army. So there's a certain disproportionateity in the number of soldiers we sent there compared to Germany. On the other hand, the allocation of GDP from Germany's budget is bigger than in Croatia. On the other hand, GDP per capita in Germany is three times bigger. What I am forced to conclude is that Croatia endures when it looks at the proportion of the greater burden of this activity in Afghanistan than any other NATO member of the alliance such as Germany. Or Italy that has 2800 soldiers in Afghanistan. So now it's going to turn out to be about 9 times more than Croatia, and yet it has an active army composition of 15 times more than Croatia. So, I would like, no matter what we are, a small country compared to these two that I have stated that our negotiators are trying to participate Croatian armies and Croatian soldiers anywhere in the world to a lower level than it is today, that is, what is the proportional size of the Croatian Army and the strength of the Croatian economy that ultimately must finance. Someone has already said today in the debate, each of these soldiers in some way and equipment and everything else, their security costs Croatian budget 320 million kuna, which will be allocated annually for this activity is not small. So I say first for security, but also for the country's economic strength, we should make sure that we do not participate in relations that are larger, but in which countries such as Germany and Italy are participated. That's why any increase I'd say and this of 20 instructors who will go more to Afghanistan in some way is unlikely to get a positive I'd say reviews in public. But trusting our people who are dealing in some way with these negotiations how much Croatia should be participated in NATO, I will raise my hand and support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52380	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative, Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52381	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although I didn't think it would be necessary to repeat it in this High House again as if someone had forgotten NATO is not a Swedish table and we can't take from the NATO system what is good, which is security under NATO's umbrella protection, and then also calculate and moralise in making these decisions whether to participate in an international peace mission. Be aware that also in recent history at the beginning of independent Croatia, some other peacemakers have put their lives at stake by coming to Croatia, which is also for the inhabitants of their countries from which they came was insecure, war-affected. So I'm going to say openly and express here a certain political or personal egoism. The peacemakers helped Croatia. The international peacekeeping forces gave Croatia the needed rest to consolidate the Croatian military and police when it was difficult and behind, and it is certainly an undivided view of all who know something about it and are participants in these events, that their arrival was good for Croatia. Also, another country needs the help of international peace forces and Croatian soldiers are not in any war. They are under conditions of war, but they do not implement or impose any aggressive policy. They are not involved, nor will they participate, for this is how we have defined ourselves by consensus in this High House. The increase in the number of soldiers from 300 to 320 is fully consistent with the numerical sizes, but also with the dynamics contained in the document that we adopted here in this House of Commons. The long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia says that Croatian Armed Forces will have about 8% of that component of the Land Army in action outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. It's about 700 soldiers somewhere. This is what we defined in 2006 when we adopted a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces. And now we're just making a decision according to that document. Functions, or tasks to be carried out by these additional members of the Armed Forces, are in line with the NATO concept. This means instructorial functions in line with NATO's strategy, help them dress, help them take over the role of military and police. It means their national components, their military and their police, that they can take responsibility for the situation in their country. They need help. They need help with their instructors. And they're completely incorrect data, and I'm listening here to them, about some kind of disproportionate involvement of ours. No, fellow Maras. Germany participates more financially. It's not the only parameter in terms of population and number of soldiers. Germany there also gives something that we can't take financially on ourselves, it's air transport. That's a hell of a cost. And when you put it in some kind of correlation the German contribution is financially larger than it is Croatian because Germany can afford it. We can't and we don't take responsibility. What's the point here, in security? The point is that Croatia has never taken over some function performed by soldiers in Afghanistan, and before that it was not the proposal of the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It's never politics, and hopefully it won't take over the functions of the armed forces that the waist is for, so the Chief Staff didn't give the grade yes, we're ready and we can do it. Also, the most complex is she... function. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our soldiers as mentors of the Armed Forces and that's the most demanding part of the risk. Unforeseeable and most securely demanding. And thank God nothing happened, thank God, except for some easy wounded soldiers we didn't have that most tragic event. And no one, a colleague of Lesar, nor the President of the Republic, nor the Prime Minister or Prime Minister, and thank God neither the minister nor the ministers are expecting a touchdown. Because the first thought every morning is whether something happened in Afghanistan last night. It's a terrible pressure, but that doesn't mean we won't take responsibility for making these political decisions. This is a good mission, she's not radicalizing Islam in any way like she said, or at least that's how I figured it out, Mr. Cain. Especially not the work of Croatian soldiers in Afghanistan. Because if you didn't know at least there used to be, and I hope today it is, as part of a months-long training of members who will be referred to it and training is part of a lecture on the foundations of Islamic religion and culture. Be assured Croatian soldiers know what country they are in, know the fundamental values of the people they are helping and do not play with someone's religious sanctities. And we can be proud of that. We can be proud of that. The decision to refer is in everything in line with the Croatian Constitution, with Croatian laws, with a long-term development plan. I personally support her as a parliamentary representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52382	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52383	A colleague of NATO Roncevic is not a Swedish table, you're right. But neither is Alcatraz, as far as I know. When you defended Croatia's decision to join NATO without a referendum, you said now we will be equal and sit at the table when it is decided. So if we're sitting at the table that's being decided on, then it's not true that we have to do something. Because every NATO member has the right to decide whether or not to participate in a mission. It is a quote about your arguments in the discussion of Croatia's entry into NATO. Each member shall have the right to decide which mission to participate in. But what matters is not the number of inhabitants is the only criterion, but GDP per capita is. The German participation in Afghanistan when you express it in money, of course, is bigger than Croatia, but is consistent with GDP per capita. Now I ask you what is Croatia's share in this mission if we ignore the number of inhabitants rather than recalculate 380 million kunas and compare GDP per capita of the other 44 countries participating in Afghanistan? Do not draw arguments that only suit you at a given time. Defend the decision, and a few months ago these same criteria served you to defend the second decision. So you claimed today that we must participate in every NATO mission. That's not true! You claimed that we didn't have to and that each member decided on its own when he wanted to and when he wouldn't participate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52384	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52385	Well, you said yourself we don't have to participate, we don't participate in those functions we can't accept. Croatia has no national restrictions, but has limitations on its ability. What our soldiers are not trained to do, what we financially cannot bear Croatia has not accepted. And among other things, if you remember correctly in Afghanistan, one other mission, mostly in the south, "Endury Freedom" seemed to have been called. They're combat functions. Croatia said, we do not want to and cannot participate. Our soldiers are not qualified for this, the risk is higher and Croatia will not participate. And no one, because of this, has expressed that attitude before Croatia was formally admitted to NATO and no one has thrown Croatia out for it. We sit at the table, make decisions and participate in proportion to our abilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52386	Mr. Representative Damir Kai's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52387	Once again, what matters to me is the one with Islam. I said this, that Islam is not a radical religion, but these American wars radicalize even a part of the Islamic population. It's kind of like I said, and God forbid I'm wrong. Second, did a whole series of countries pull an army out of Iraq? It is. Did some countries withdraw troops from Afghanistan? They did. Are there debates in all parliaments across Europe or globes about the return of the army from Afghanistan? I'm sure you do. And finally, what is most important here, what will happen when in three or four years, US or other NATO soldiers retreat? So in the first year after that, the current Afghan government will flee to America from which it came. To the side of their electoral deficit. God forbid I'm wrong, and it's just that our presence there has caused such a fruit, but I don't think I'm wrong. And second or third, no one here is any egotist so that he used to be in, that he was against it afterwards. That we simply don't know how to evaluate the presence of foreign troops in the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War. We absolutely appreciate that, but we also have to keep in mind the difference, one advance I would dare say to the missions and the one that is freely said to be lost, and ultimately I'm afraid that many of our youngsters will simply get killed there.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52388	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52389	What's going to happen in the future I can't say, I don't have these supernatural abilities, and I'm not going to visit the ladies' doormen so they can tell me any more about it. By the way, in Afghanistan today, several million Afghan children go to school to prove that the mission has succeeded. They didn't have what women kids go to school for, the mission worked. What will happen if security circumstances change then, on the basis of the assessment of the people who are qualified and competent to discuss and make appropriate decisions. Finally, the Croatian Constitution also knows the instrumentary that in the event of a major death of the armed forces, the President of the Republic may decide to withdraw. Therefore, there is an instrumentation, there is a constitutional framework at this time, we are discussing it today based on the knowledge we have today, there are no indications of an increased security threat especially at these functions where we further send these 20 soldiers and therefore this decision should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52390	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52391	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. For 12 years, the Soviet Union was present in Afghanistan and lost the war. The United States was in Vietnam for almost 20 years and lost the war. The mission to Afghanistan was established in 2001 by the United Nations Council decision, and it will be nearly 10 years from the international mission, the international military force in Afghanistan. In the assessment of the situation so far in the materials that we have received and then in the reasons and objectives of making the decision to instruct additional forces of the Republic of Croatia to Afghanistan and therefore exclusively instructors, in order for our number of soldiers to be in Afghanistan to be 320, I would say that this analysis or breakdown is much better than some domestic analysis and breakdown in the situation of economic, political or any other part of the Republic of Croatia. At the very beginning, we have the names of cities, places of the provinces, which, if read by an ordinary citizen of the Republic of Croatia, would really be asked why, if we are a member of the NATO Pact, and if the NATO Pact and the Armed Forces agreement of the Republic of Croatia is to expand this, if it is agreed by the President of the Republic, but clearly that the Croatian Parliament has the last word. However, Mazar-i-sharif, Meiman, Feizabadu, Badlana, Samanthagan, Sherbagan, Chacharan, Kuduz, Pol-e-kori, etc., believe me that sounds like Milanluga, Chaglin, Migalovac, Jahacina, Grisic, etc., for which many parliamentary representatives also have no idea where they are and what is happening there all together. Clearly, no war is being waged just to carry out some kind of ideology to humanize a country, but to be fought primarily for economic reasons. It is clear that Afghanistan is a place of production of opium and first transport, it is clear that Afghanistan is on the way when it is seen globally, oil road, from the Middle East, Central Asia, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, etc., oil gas and other fossil fuels and it is clear that it is a modified or modern colonization called after the latest globalisation. The Croatian Army actually joined the NATO Pact in this system, however, I would ask parliamentary representatives and all of us here, and the minister, does he know how many Croatian citizens are working in Afghanistan without being in the Croatian Army. How many citizens work for the KBR in Iraq, too. Clearly, going with the belly after the bread where it can be earned. So there is much more in Afghanistan than 294 of them in the Croatian army, which were sent there to the NATO Pact mission, or international forces. The stabilisation and transition of the Afghan state, the assistance of the Afghan People's Army, ANA, the job of police and military instructors, Afghanistan, is all well said but I also thought about our participation in relation to the gross and other indicators, clearly here in the material itself says that the Republic of Croatia according to the calculation of the contribution to the ISAF peace operation by applying the NATO formula is 16th place of 42 donor countries. So we are ahead of 26 other countries, and these 26 other countries are certainly not countries that are in such difficult recession conditions as the Republic of Croatia. Clearly, the separation for our soldiers must not be questionable, because that is why we are questioning their safety, clearly that these are our soldiers we are always proud of and proud of, but it is also clear that as it says in this material that so far there are no human victims in Afghanistan. The fight against, as someone here said, the Taliban, Afghanistan and their ideology, is not only a struggle in Afghanistan, this fight can easily spread beyond Afghanistan and has been extended beyond Afghanistan and God forbid Croatia is affected by certain segments or ways of fighting these people for its ideas, so that we have in our backyard a problem that we would not want, that there is no railway in Madrid, railways in Zagreb, etc. Because of this and because it is unsaid here by fellow Caine that the budget or part of the budget that takes place for the peace forces is greater than the budget of the tourism ministry in this situation and for a number of other things not only the tourism ministry we need as much as you want right now, for some of the praises it receives does not matter who, so it gets all of Croatia's praises. What has Croatia gained in equipping the ability to place Croatian products for the NATO Pact? Mr. Minister, who offered this product to Croatia, and which NATO has accepted that we can also participate in this kind of separation of NATO countries' pact with monetary separation so that Croatia may have part in this globalisation war or safeguarding security in Afghanistan? We can't even place our socks for an army not only for ours, but for a NATO pact army that has 90 thousand now in Afghanistan. So I wonder if we take all this as facts, which is why I would vote for the departure of Croatian soldiers to Afghanistan. And that's why I conclude that I can't raise my hand for a motion like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52392	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52393	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will correct the incorrect allegation of a distinguished fellow representative who said Croatia is neither capable nor able to produce a sock for the NATO alliance. That's not true. It is true that in Croatia there is a product there is an economy that can certainly follow the needs of both NATO alliance or similar range primarily in arms and also from the equipment of a type of helmet, clothes which are partly known to all of us, so Mr. counterpart you have wrongly said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52394	Mr. Agent Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52395	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister and Secretary of State. By listening to this debate about Afghanistan that we are having in the short run for the second or third time, it should certainly be said that this country is at least a triple hostage. And that hostage above all the successful Taliban who have become a synonym of sustainable extremism in some way vandals of our day. However, Afghanistan is a hostage of a completely corrupt government that even the election cycle does not legitimise otherwise. Finally, Afghanistan is unfortunately also a hostage to the international community's wandering in search of an effective strategy. It should be recalled that NATO has been here today a lot of words about it today have more than 86 thousand soldiers as part of the mandate of the United Nations ISAF. These forces account for more than 40 countries but all NATO members mean 28 of them as well. Many say the most difficult task of ISAF is the fight against rebels in southern Afghanistan where the Taliban is the most present. But I wouldn't agree with that. In addition to the Taliban, the plighted institution of Afghan authorities is a bait for crime of every kind, according to some credible data, more than 60% of the economy there seems to be the Afghan drug industry. Although opium production flourished after the Taliban came to power after the Soviet withdrawal, 90% of the world's heroin needs still meet with the production of opium in Afghanistan. Furthermore, according to the latest data, the illiteracy rate in Afghanistan is 64%. A Pakistani journalist who is well aware of the situation in Afghanistan found that illiteracy is precisely the most pronounced among the money recruited by Afghan police. And he wonders how this one cop can stand up to a misdemeanor or even write a report if he himself is illiterate. Although security remains a key issue, a new United Nations report suggests that corruption in Afghanistan is an even more serious obstacle than the Taliban. Corruption is the biggest problem facing Afghans is even from rebels and poverty. The estimates say that corrupt duties primarily... governments turn around in their pockets about a quarter of their country's total product, and that's somewhere in Afghanistan about 2.5 billion dollars. Things are going so far that Nancy Pelosi, president of the House of Presidents, claims that the Afghan president is not a credible partner of the United States. And the U.S. Secretary of Defense Gates is here, you know, I'd like to ask a comment, recently approved the money for the small allies to be partners of the United States. It's about $50 million that will spend six or seven countries. Because not only do Croatian soldiers complain about insufficient equipment for their mission in Afghanistan. So, the United States is looking for a decent partner in Afghanistan, but they also want their allies to be adequately equipped for the fight. I'll be back later. As far as Hamid Karzai is concerned, he's quite good at it, because he's one of the most corrupt politicians in the world right now. The weakness of his country and the constant search of the West for a successful strategy has certainly turned it into a tangible benefit for itself and its clan. But to return to the American commander in Afghanistan Stanley McCristal who said very clearly, "This war cannot be won in military terms, but without enough military force, it can be lost." The biggest problem is that the Afghan population has lost confidence in its own politicians, and does not see the benefit of the presence of ISAF forces. How's that? The West is trying to make what seemed impossible until yesterday, which is to include Taliban rebels in the government. I quote British Foreign Minister Mr. Miliband as saying that the key is to ensure the reintegration of the rebels who are willing to live in accordance with the Afghan Constitution, defend the people rather than attack. Against such an attitude, of course, it is difficult to have anything against, but it only says that 10 years have practically lost. There's something else that's really bordering on bizarreness. Analysts say NATO's commanders are obstructing the restrictions of individual countries' governments on what their majors are allowed to do and can't do in Afghanistan. Michael Williams, a NATO expert at the London University, describes some of these restrictions, saying that one of the restrictions is that soldiers should not act at night. Then you must not go into action outside a particular area. Third, they must not be sent to combat operations. Fourthly, they can only shoot when they are fired at, of course, by such restrictions leading to very strange circumstances. He says, say, if you're in action together with the British soldiers you're shooting at, you can't answer because you're not being shot at. Therefore, such restrictions make it difficult to adopt an effective strategy even though it is completely understandable given the position of most of the states that have represented soldiers in the ISAF mission not to expose its soldiers to the risks of suffering in combat missions. In the end, I'd like to say something about an exit strategy that has been repeated here many times. Croatia has software, it has a knowledge of how, how to restore war-torn country. We ourselves have been exposed to war suffering and in many ways we are still a post-conflict society with signs acquired in war. I would also like to see and strengthen Croatia's international credibility precisely in proposals which I believe will expand in Afghanistan, that it will turn into areas of development, non-discrimination and tolerance, which are of course the assumptions of democracy. We can make our contribution. But when it comes to the exit strategy, it should be said that other countries are already working very hard on it. The Canadians have 3,000 soldiers in Afghanistan and are starting to withdraw those troops next year, and in July 2011. The Americans intend to withdraw their first contingent. The question arises if other NATO member states see it as a trigger, as a time when indeed troops should withdraw who will remain in Afghanistan? How long and with what many compositions? One news went relatively unnoticed in our media, referring to Montenegro. On March 8th, last year, Montenegrins first sent a small contingent of their troops to Afghanistan. Whether the withdrawal of soldiers from large NATO members will be compensated by increasing the sending of troops from conditional or unconditionally speaking to small NATO members, and whether the very funds that Mr Gates allocates to these allies outline some future strategies, the military presence of the International Community in Afghanistan. This should really be discussed, and I think we will be returning to this topic in the Croatian Parliament. Unlike the Dutch government, the Croatian government will not fall because of a mission in Afghanistan. It will fall due to its failed mission in Croatia, but it is not the subject of this debate. In the end, I would just like to say that security and good governance are the key to sustainable development. This is unfortunately the goal that is as far away in Afghanistan as at the time of the 2001 intervention mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52396	Thank you. And Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic, House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52397	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today, a number of arguments have been presented here during the debate, some for, and some against the stay of the Croatian mission in Afghanistan. I won't repeat them. I will support this decision because I believe that it is rational, that it is logical, that it is in the political interest of the Republic of Croatia that it is sustainable in every respect financially, securely, politically viewed as being involved in international associations, in the NATO alliance and in the overall international policy. I just want to give a brief warning today about one aspect of which, at least in the way I'm going to say it today, there was no speech at all. I mean, even though it was a long time ago, I still remember very much. I was in the position of Minister Vukelic when the first contingent of our boys and girls went to Afghanistan and then it was a very logical and very politically based decision. There were other conditions, but everything was about the same politically. And today I remember here very vividly how I sent them off on this journey of uncertainty and I remember actually crying here about as much as I am right now. I want to tell you, Mr. Minister, that you have to bear in mind first that our boys and girls there are equipped as much as necessary, to be protected, that no one, no one, no restrictions, no Prime Ministers, no ministers, no obstacle needs should be and that will deprive sufficient resources that they have maximum security. They represent Croatia there. We've been represented for years in an absolutely excellent way. If athletes are as our best ambassadors say, I think this one serious security and political world is exactly our boys and girls in the contingents in Afghanistan. For you, their safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52398	Thank you. Defence Minister Branko Vukelic's final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I thank you for a very constructive debate. I thank all those who support this decision. I am indeed holding as the vice president here has now said as the last speaker logically in the interest of Croatian politics and clearly in the spirit of that policy that Croatia has been leading for many years, not since the date of NATO membership. We became a NATO member last year, and politics, responsible policy when it comes to peacekeeping missions, about Croatia as a responsible member of the International Community we spend many years. It's based on the experience we have in the not so long ago. When we were also the recipient country of the International Peace Corps, when we went through a severe Homeland War. Like a country that knows exactly what war means, which means peace and how much peace is necessary for every country, for every nation, for all people wherever they live. And we, I repeat, are on peacekeeping missions around the world not only in Afghanistan, but for many years. And before we became a member of the NATO alliance. The decision on this operation, the participation in the operation in Afghanistan, was taken by the Croatian Parliament in December 2002. In 2003, our soldiers first went on that peace mission. And what should also be said is that we were the only non-NATO country that had instructors in the peace mission, so mentor teams that trained the Afghan army. All that was happening in those years in this peace mission, other peacekeeping missions testifying to both motivation and experience, good preparation, training, the equipment of our soldiers, whatever mission they are present in. That is also why we can be happy and satisfied that there is no loss of our people in this peace mission. And it is certain that both the Croatian government and the Ministry of Defence and I at the head of the ministry will continue to work on doing everything to ensure that our soldiers are well prepared, well-trained, well equipped when they go to peace missions and that they can clearly do their tasks and carry out their tasks, but that they are clearly and fully protected in those areas where real dangers exist. No matter what they're not in combat action. There were stories here about what the reasons were, why did we get that call to give the instructors, to increase the number of our troops in this ISAF peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan? I have already spoken and I will repeat, it is about the International Community strategy, not just the NATO alliance, because 44 countries are involved in this operation, therefore, and non-members of the NATO alliance. So it is a strategy that says it is necessary to speed up the training of the Afghan army and police. To do that, you need to increase the number of instructors. And that's where the NATO Commandant's request for Europe came from for 65 of our instructors. It's about artillery instructors, training instructors on helicopters, police specialities, logistics, etc. Our Armed Forces have well analyzed this request and determined that our ability to give 37 instructors is for this peace operation. In order for us to do this, we need this 20 increase that we are talking about today, and we will need to restructure our forces on the ground as we support it, because you know that we are now in the positions of the north, west and in the capital city of Kabul with our forces. Now, we're going to be restructured to only 2 spaces, that's the north and the capital of Kabul, and from the west we're going to pull our forces, and so we're going to replace the forces that we have with the instructors that will be in schools for these specialities that I've been talking about. So we're thinking about exactly that we're going to have a bit easier to do in a logistics way because we're going to have our people at a smaller location in Afghanistan. And there's no word, there's no basis for anyone now saying it's just the beginning, we're going to get to over 400 and based on some math that's talking about the current 90,000 members of the Armed Forces of all countries up to 125 because believe in all the conversations I've had and that we've had at the Ministry of Defense with our partners in the NATO Alliance, and we appreciate the contribution of the Republic to this operation in Afghanistan. And it's really hard to talk about, let's count how many of us have army members, which country, so how many of us are in there? How much GDP, how rich it is, etc., it's very hard to work that way because you'll find a lot of calculations that will then be absurd. Every time a request is made by a member of the NATO Alliance or one participating in the operation, but so does Croatia, it makes a decision which, in what way, by which means, by which number of people can participate in the operation. And here we have also analyzed our abilities and opportunities and financial opportunities when there has been a proposal for this decision that we hold possible and financially and professionally and that it is sustainable and that this increase of 20 soldiers will not endanger either the financial or any other situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. And also, there were questions and debates about finance. In the budget for this year the amount for peace missions is somewhere around 334 million kuna, all the peace missions we have. We have, you know, last year we were on 12 UN peacekeeping missions, 2 under the leadership of the EU, 2 under the auspices of the NATO Alliance. Therefore, all costs for all missions are 334 million. When it comes to ISAF Afghanistan, somewhere there's a cost of about 262 million kuna. It should also be said that we have begun to implement a rationalise the participation of our forces in peacekeeping missions. So since last year's 12 UN-led missions, we've now remained on seven peacekeeping missions. So, in the five UN-led peacekeeping missions, we are no longer involved because they cost us and we have estimated that our presence in these peacekeeping missions is no longer necessary. The cost we have for peacekeeping missions has not been reduced nor will it experience a reduction precisely for security reasons and because of the need for our soldiers to be well equipped, we train well and for the next year the budget also provides for funds and increased funds primarily aimed at equipment in terms of the security of members of our Armed Forces when participating in peacekeeping missions from Afghanistan and beyond in those in which they participate. When it comes to this year's finances, these 20 additional troops will cost somewhere between 4 and 5 million kuna and these are the funds provided at the position of the Ministry of Defence's budget. For next year, clearly, it will be foreseen in the budget for next year. There are no problems with the purchase of goods and equipment for members of our forces who go on peacekeeping missions. So there's no talking about thousands of shirts standing around, and our members of the Armed Forces who go into peace missions don't have shirts, it's simply incorrect, you know that we have special uniforms when it comes to a peace mission in Afghanistan, the desert variant of these uniforms, and they're specially acquired, so they're always, not just uniforms everything else is fully prepared for our soldiers when they go on a peace mission. There's no problem with people, so she's talking about what was and here mentioned last year with four members of the armed forces who didn't perform the task, justifying that they didn't have the equipment, etc., she showed through the report and the analysis that was done, and we really asked for the analysis, from the preparation of soldiers to the situation and to the organisation on the ground in Afghanistan itself, it was a mistake to keep these people in a tight procedure, because they were not ordered to do something that was out of the spirit of something that was done so far, nor were they without the equipment only that this investigation showed that they would need to be more careful in the selection process, when people who wanted to go on missions to be people who really meet the criteria that they should meet with all their characteristics. And I will end up with one more thought that has been said here and I don't want to comment too much, but I want to make it clear and loud that our members of the armed forces are not going to the peace mission in Afghanistan or any other cause for the glory of any Minister, or the Prime Minister, or the Prime Minister, or the praise they receive, or for trade, so that they can sell goods, go because of our foreign policy established by this House, the Croatian Parliament, to be the responsible member of the International Community who will be responsible for such missions as they aim for peace, perspective, the development of these countries and the security of those citizens who live in those countries, therefore we are not going to go for the praise we get, we each time clearly assess what we can't do, and when it comes to trade and those opportunities within NATO, then I should say that we have successful businesses, mentioned here, I will say how not. So Shestanbush, just doing a helmet for one of NATO's members of the Italian Union, in a tender won in strong competition. If he succeeds in developing a helmet protective of the Kalashnikov that no one else in the world is, then believe me, everyone in Afghanistan will wear that helmet because it's very good to protect themselves from it. Therefore, let us separate the story and the special business that the Ministry is doing and running, not only the Ministry and Government is aimed at the market offered in NATO countries but today we are not talking about the market, we are talking about the responsibility of our policy and the increase of the number of members of the Armed Forces in Afghanistan to get as soon as possible not to the Croatian exit strategy, someone here mentioned whether Croatia has an exit strategy. No Croatia has its exit strategy, there is a strategy of the International Community for exiting Afghanistan, but in order to do so, it is necessary to train the Afghan police and the military to take responsibility for the peace in their country, which is why more instructors are needed, which is why the request came to Croatia, which is why we have assessed that our real possibilities are those of which I have spoken and therefore I call on this Croatian Parliament to give support and to make this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52400	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52401	We move to a proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peace operation in Afghanistan. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm stressing that it's consistent with the article. 227. The rules of procedure for making this decision require a two-thirds majority of all MPs, so at least 102 votes. I am voting on a proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan ISAF. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for this decision. The result? The decision to participate members of the RS Armed Forces in a peacekeeping operation in Afghanistan was adopted by 123 votes to, 3 abstentions and nothing against. Thank you very much, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52402	We move to the next point - Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the list of companies of special national interest is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government has proposed this decision on the basis of Article 11. Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties and Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52403	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. Just a few sentences, therefore, according to the Decision on the list of companies of special state interest adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 30 October 2009. The government of the Republic of Croatia shall submit to the Croatian Parliament by the end of August of the current year for the previous year a report on the business of companies according to the list that was with the decision itself. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Act amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Companies adopted at the end of 2009 must be held in the first 8 months of the financial year, i.e. by 31 August at the latest. In any case, it is an objective factor in which we went with a proposal to amend this Decision on the list of companies of special national interest, according to which the deadline for the delivery of reports would actually be revised, those final relevant data that you could discuss here would be the end of September of the current year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52404	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Gordan Maras' club, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52405	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. During the debate on the amendment of this Act, where, as the Secretary of State said, only the provision of a month later to report the Croatian Assembly on the results is changed, it is necessary to mention some of the things that we believe the Croatian public and Croatian citizens must know and it is related to public companies. Normally, the results as soon as possible as a Parliament, as the highest body, are interested in seeing public enterprises and state-owned enterprises owned by the state of Croatia, which are of state interest as they operate, we want to know and look forward to seeing what this report will be for 2009. Unfortunately, I don't think that this joy is going to be too much of a show, because the results are weaker than they were a year before, and those since 2008 are weaker than those of 2007 but what's more important is to see how the state applies, how the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards public enterprises, according to companies of state interest, and companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, and whether it has anything that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is headed with Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, 6. 11th placed in public in 2009 when she said she was considering moving politics from public businesses. Is there at all in this shred of anything that has happened and whether politics today has a less impact than it was at the beginning of Prime Minister Kosor's term and whether anything has changed at all than what happened a year ago two, when I said that the results from year to year are getting worse and more intransparency that every day pops up to the surface and many people who participated in these non-transparentities spend days in Remetinc. So six. 11. In 2009, Prime Minister Kosor said she is considering that the company's supervisory committees will no longer be politicians, that politics should be removed from public enterprises and that it should bring in capable people who will lead these companies and sit in the administrations of these companies. It's 12 already. The 11th cabinet meeting in a secret part of one that was not available to the Croatian public was appointed as opposed to that statement 6 days earlier by three ministers to the INA Supervisory Board, Minister Suker, Minister Pankretic and Minister Ivic. So much for that. After that we had o.k. might be a little slower rispose transactionay exists between what the prime minister says and what happens in practice. Maybe we should wait for a certain time for something to happen. And then in Parliament, two months later, we received three laws in February 2010, which had a united discussion of the Law on Changes on State officials, on enterprises of state interest and on the transfer of power, where this should be translated into practice. Of course, we said at the time what we think and now, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HDZ is treating this problem with a fig in their pocket, that it creates an impression in the public that they want to do something, and in fact that they are doing nothing but continue to behave in the way they are divided by the HDZ, this company, to you from HSS, that company, to you from the third party in the coalition, that company. We said what makes us think that, because that law was not clearly defined until when the changes would take place, in what way the changes would happen, and it was simply written in one provision, the membership of the supervisory committees takes place until the end of the term of office, which can then theoretically be two, three years since the law was passed. The HDZ convinced us not to, we really mean it, we're going to change politicians, we're not going to be state officials on the supervisory boards anymore, this practice is going to be abandoned. And then what happened to 20? 2. About 17 days after the debate was held in the Croatian Parliament? The FINA Supervisory Board appointed Martina Banic as spokeswoman to Mrs Kosor, who, according to our assessment, has neither the life experience nor the professional experience to control such a complex system as FINA. And then what did the government spokesman explain when the media asked him why it was such a designation where it was evident that there were no professional references for this person to oversee such an important company as FINA? Mr Mehun said he was not giving up the government's appointments according to professional criteria, but since a former member of the Supervisory Board went to another post, that those in the government were still thinking and that they decided to join the FINA Supervisory Board from the Prime Minister's office. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I hope it doesn't become a practice. These companies in Croatia have a lot. I don't know if it's big enough for the Prime Minister's office to replace someone from the Prime Minister's office every time someone leaves with their presence to the Supervisory Board. I, of course, am here on purpose and speaking in such a way that I hope that it is not too much of the Office of the Prime Minister, because I am aware that these people do not have the competence to oversee such institutions and that it is not good to do this, that it is not a good thing that one reference for someone to come to the INA Supervisory Board now after the other person has left that it is from the Office of the Prime Minister. So it is not possible that this is only important and it is not possible for HDZ to propose in this way and the government wants to propose members of the board of directors of public companies. And again, I speak with so much consistency, given that only two weeks earlier, a law was passed in the Croatian Parliament that said politics was leaving the supervisory boards. But here's the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent her spokeswoman to a member of her cabinet to the FINA Supervisory Board, regardless of what she proposed that law and probably the lady who went there has no professional reference to do such complex work. And how complex a job it is also says exactly the paradox that in FINA where the plan is to reduce the number of employees from 4.5 to 3,000 and where in 2007 was the loss of 22 million, 2008. 34 just in such a troubled business, sending someone who is without any experience to oversee the course of that business. Of course, it all says that neither will nor desire to change the way we've been distributed to us this, to you. Another example. I read HEP from a press union conference in HEP where workers are desperate to speak, is it possible that of 2,000 200, 3. 11. 2009 Two thousand 200 VSS employees in HEP have no one to come for a member of the board, an internal competition, but two people outside the system must be hired. One reference from the HDZ chief in Yaska, while others say Mr. Rajkovic from the HSS quota. That's not what I'm saying. Hep employees say. Before that appointed member of the board who was never in that energy business, Mr. Begovic and we gave the company that has an annual income of 3.4 billion kuna to three people who have no experience with energy and who have exclusively come after the party key to run the company. And we expect that this company will give the next year cheaper electricity, that the heating will be cheaper. Well, of course not when the operation of HEP can only be covered by the standards of Croatian citizens and therefore we have an announcement of heating this year and electricity and everything that goes with it. Croatian citizens will pay such political appointments from their standard. And okay. It would be fair for HDZ to say that we will manage state-owned enterprises in this way. But no, HDZ speaks 6. The 11th Prime Minister Kosor, we want a profession, we're going to remove politics. In six days, he's talking and doing something else. Also in the parliament is proposed law in front of the government, we will remove politicians from the supervisory board, in two weeks, Prime Minister Kosor puts his spokeswoman on the FINA Supervisory Board. And then do we trust that anything is to be done as far as public companies are concerned, and then do we trust that every year as Croatian representatives, we will not have to vote on subsidies to these public enterprises as we have to pay Croatian railways 2 billion kuna and that Croatian citizens will not pay it in 2 ways again. I told one direct tax through the Croatian budget and two from their standard, because they pay, Croatian citizens pay incompetent administrations named politically through heating and electricity. A specific example of HEP. No man has anything to do with energy. The 2200 people were not satisfied with the system, but satisfied HDZ President Jaska, who came as a member of the administration. And of course we don't trust HDZ to really want to do something about it. If he wanted to, he would support the SDP's interpretation that was under discussion 29th pardon, 20th and another where we gave an exact way to manage companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and what the government should do to make these companies do more effectively. At that time, the interpretation was rejected with most votes because if it had been adopted then it would not be possible to appoint the FINA Supervisory Board as an employee of the Office of the Prime Minister, because then it should take care whether the person is professional or not for the job. And one more thing that matters. We asked that the case not happen to HEP, that public companies, that administrations go to a public tender, that people who are the best on the market be chosen. If they need to adjust and pay these companies to bring in the best people from the market. Because, of course, it's very difficult to find a quality manager from the private sector who will come in for 15, 16000 kunas to work as a director, let's say, a public firm. But it's much better to make it possible for these people to be adequately rewarded, to bring in the best people, and then not to pay a billion kuna more electricity than we should have in 2008. So normally everything that happens in Croatia and everything that the government does does does does does not give confidence that it has any seriousness to change anything. And I'm going to give you an example and a way to make a positive step. A new Supervisory Board of Zagreb Holding was appointed in Zagreb the other day. Of the five people on the Supervisory Board, there's not one in the SDP. The chairman of the Supervisory Board is a regular professor, that of a regular professor at the Faculty of Economics. Three doctors of science, two regular professors at the Zagreb University and by the end of the year all competitions of all branches of Zagreb Holding are on the public tender. So, what we should do in the country will show the gentlemen how it is done in Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52406	Thank you. Three corrections. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52407	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect for a colleague when you said that Mrs. Kosor didn't mean it when she said that professional people would be appointed to supervisory committees. It is also proof of the appointment of your colleague Mr. Jurcic as Chairman of the Podravka Supervisory Board as serious as possible. Secondly, it is incorrect that Mr. Begovic has nothing to do with energy. In fact, Mr. Begovic was the secretary of state who was in charge of the energy field. And how serious does SDP feel about holding, the Zagreb Holding. First of all, he's had a chance to show that he meant it. Secondly, according to Mr Bandic, your former member, a member of the SDP. At the administration of that holding company are relatives from a village like he said. That's how serious you think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52408	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52409	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's an incorrect quote from Mr. Maras when he says the government has a fig tree in its pocket. This is really incorrect, because the entire Croatian public knows very well that the Prime Minister has formed advice, so which has made a complete programme of economic recovery, supported by the Croatian National Bank, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Croatian Employers' Association, some trade unions and most of the professional public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52410	Mr. Representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect quote by Mr. Maras, which says when the price of energy in Croatia has increased because the government has appointed incompetent administrations and politically similar management members, for example in HEP. So, counterpart Matusic corrected when he said that Mr. Begovic had come to the post of president of the HEP administration as secretary of state in charge of energy. Therefore, he was highly expert in acting as director on the one hand. On the other hand, the increase in electricity prices in Croatia will also be due to the fact that the electricity price has not been increased for many years. The entry costs have increased on the one hand, and on the other hand the inflation rate itself is such that it can and can justify a certain price and an increase in electricity prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52412	IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52413	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, it was interesting what Mr. Maras was talking about. I don't mean holding, I mean HEP clearly. It'll be interesting, but I don't want to talk about holding. It's going to be interesting to see what the next day will be to these people who are in HEP, how much they're going to buy electricity, they're going to sell. Whether that situation will happen again since last year when I don't know it for a kilowatt hour or as it is already said bought for 83 euros or dollars, and then the same current for 22 or 23 euros was sold through Sibenik. And now we will have to transfer that normal loss through new accounts to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, first, to return to this decision on the list of companies of particular national interest. Thus, this decision concerns 66 state-owned companies in the predominantly or partially owned Republic of Croatia. For example, the Croatian state is clearly a 100 per cent owner of one HEP now mentioned earlier, and 26 per cent shares in one Podravka for example and not to analyse all that data now. So, what do I want to say? Of everything the Republic of Croatia owned, there were 66 companies left in its portfolio in 1990. Some of these 66 companies are not 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia. So this is one of the remains, what Croatia had in 1990. These 66 companies also speak symbolically of Croatian privatisation sin. Nothing clearer, nothing more decent about the privatizing sin that has occurred in this country since the '90s, than this list of companies than the special state, clearly, interest. The point of this law is next, it's this famous art. 2nd or better put it on the page. 2. this argument, "until that time-limit of society will not be subject to a decision on the distribution of the profits achieved. Decisions on the distribution of profits made to the Ministry of Finance provide information on the expected amount of payments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the profits achieved and on the basis of the share of the State in the company's ownership structure of particular state interest. It is important data, in addition to the fact that the State Audit takes the view that the data in question is one of the most important segments of the report." It's done, so it's a quote. It then lists all those companies that I mentioned which are in some way in dominant or less expressed state ownership. What's the state doing with these companies? We'll see about that soon, but what doesn't make sense is from this data that, for example, The basic capital of Brodosplita or Vicora Lenca is greater than that of the "Uljanika" which, in 3 months 2010, had a revenue of 700 million kuna, never again in 3 months, some 7 million kuna, whether it will be so and in 2011 remains to be seen. So far, this has been a great business for both last year and for the first three months of this year. The biggest revenue ever recorded was made in 2009, but how long will that take? That's what we'll see. But in fact, I have reported that in some way I would draw attention to the state's need to resolve the situation in TES, the oil tool. These are normally privatised companies, but which up to a few years ago were part of the "Oliniks" that employ around 200 people on this day. For one "Olinik" that wouldn't be a problem if we didn't solve this problem in due course, and then, under quotes, we'll "seal fate" and the former "Olinik" toolmaker and this Oil Electric Machine Factory. Now, what I'm far more interested in may well be what it means, on the other hand, the government's programme and the formulation of an exit strategy for a non-competitive industry with the support of care, etc.", finished quote. I'm afraid that actually when it comes to shipbuilding means bankruptcy, it means the liquidation of several Croatian shipyards. But also interesting is the following. While already open in government programmes, talk about privatising certain economic systems. Since the privatisation of the economic system in 2006, we have achieved revenue of 2.67 billion kuna. 2007 2.93 billion kuna, 2008 out of 0, or 680 thousand kuna, last year nothing was privatized, the 2010 plan was also nothing. We'll see what these new measures mean. However, while we're in debt last year for 20 billion kuna, this year we should be in debt for 28 billion kuna, while last year we paid off loans of $11.14 billion, this year we should repay loans of at least 20 billion. So, by listing this material, man asks himself whether after the government's programme, there is now a comprehensive privatisation of the remaining Croatian portfolio? Will the shipyards be privatized? We see that there's this plan B or whatever it is, it goes "Podravka", it goes "Postal Bank", at least Skegro mentions it. He is likely to have more influence in the government today than the ministers. There's privatisation, I don't know, Liburnia Hotel from Opatija. The hotel complex "Life", "Podgora", "Medena" etc. is mentioned. But it's all nothing against the possible privatisation of HEP or one JANAF or one of the Rijeka ports. Yesterday I read that some Chinese are mentioned for entering the area with about 10 billion, whether the euro, dollars, I don't know, doesn't really matter, etc. All these companies are in some way of vital national interest, but what's also interesting for the vast majority of these companies in this material is that they are also some social foundations. For example, you can't fire a worker, almost, in these companies, for example. I'm now reading Croatian Railways to pay for the severances from 180 to 200 thousand kuna. That's why the interest in retirement from about 400 grew to over 1,000 in the Croatian Railways. Working in these companies can be said that at this point it is almost a privilege. Clearly, I don't think it's a privilege to work in Hotels "Living", "Medeni", "Orebić", "Adriatic" from Crikvenica and not at "Boatyard", but in some systems, large public enterprises certainly do. Just before our colleague, otherwise the HDZ secretary, mentioned the fact that the power had not been collected for several years. But, gentlemen, the gas gathered 35% two years ago, and in 2008, it collected 20%, and now it's going up 13.7%. Or within 2 years, the power will be collected by 36%, that's not what the secretary of state said just now that she hadn't collected for a long time or what the Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, was saying. Well, if the power was collected every year by 2.3%, it wouldn't be a problem. However, the current is, look at it yourself in the last two years, picking up de facto by 3% every month. 20% two years ago and now 13.7%. These 13.7% go to those 20, that's 36.7%. Or in 2 years means every month the current is, by that calculation, by that logic, my logic goes up 3% per month. Heating, heat, we should be going up 15 to 20% soon, etc. What is also interesting is on the back of this material, and otherwise it states what the state portfolio contains and here I quote "contains the portfolio of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, DABA is this State Agency for Rehabilitation of Banks, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, HUC, INA, Croatian Railways, HEP etc". I suppose, or rather, I'm asking myself a question, wouldn't it be wise to have all that portfolio, all those companies conscious in some way under one hat? So, all these institutions are state-owned, and they again hold state packages of certain state-owned companies and I don't think it's reasonable that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute or the Croatian Health Insurance Office or HUC or Croatia Insurance, etc., rather than simply having to come under one hat, it would be more rational, it would be simpler, it would be less of a political trade if it were to approach that problem. But what's certainly most important when we talk about these companies, is there some kind of privatisation plan. How many people in this country can leave without a job. By the way, according to me, today I read these data last year the Republic of Croatia recorded or today we have 100,000 and 200 workers less than we had in early 2009. He's part of the Bureau, part of the pension, etc., but today, 100 grand 200 makes less money than it did at the beginning of last year, and a man asks himself the question of where it's going. We're talking privatisation, I'm paraphrasing the government's program, whether then this constitutional provision that is about to be incorporated into the Constitution on non-depreciation of conversion will concern any irregularities of these new privatisations or sales. What would also be fair to compare means that the Croatian state has the state property today, which was 90 years old. Who all in these privatisations or conversions participated, what these people had that participated in the conversion of the 90th what they have today, why they have and heaven is gone, a paradise hack and their national treasure. Of course, in the revision of conversion, at least I don't believe, I'm not so naive, clearly I would like it to happen, but I know from that it's not going to be anything because that wanted something could have been done by now. Point 2 of this Decision that I am not quoting it now, if it is not before the elections, it will be seen that these companies will be overruled in business 2010 even though we already need to get some information for 2009 it would be good to get the data for 2010 for the first 6 months of this year. Gro of these companies clearly listed here with a 66 figure would be much more romantic if they were at least 69 but well, so the gro of these companies are gentlemen monopolies they are not small companies but I have the impression that many of these companies have been knowingly destroyed so that they could be privatized through various ways, for example one Liburnia, etc. All in all, what is tragic is that the entire portfolio of Croatian assets, industries, banks, factories, refineries, from the 1990s was reduced to the number of 66 companies the state currently has in its possession, in large part, not 100%, and this particular privatisation was supposed to be that stopper of the Republic of Croatia. We'll see what that's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52414	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must correct the incorrect allegations of fellow Caine, who spoke of politics towards state-owned companies, mentioning the term social bassion. It's an incorrect claim, so it's about political foundations, and because of some government representatives' actions in some public enterprises and their committees, these committees deserve to be called destructive and not supervisory, and their policy reminds me there of a party's shortcut and it would say let's grab it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52416	A very successful poet's failure. The first part was weak, the second part you gave in. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52417	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the Club of the Croatian People's Party will support this proposal to amend the Decision on the list of companies of special national interest because it is simply necessary to say loudly that we are today discussing a law that is purely technical in nature, we are correcting something that missed 5 months ago, namely, in October we discussed amendments to the list of companies of special state interest and during this debate and adoption was also adopted by the amendment of the proposed decision, which is that the Croatian government referred to the Council of Information on business of a particular state interest. But at the same session, even the same day that the vote was passed, the Law on Commercial Companies which simply led to the situation that we had not been able to implement the obligation at the point before, here is 6.7 months to understand the trap and these amendments of the Law are now being resolved, we are actually allowing the report on the business of companies of particular state interest to come to the Parliament. That's the essence of the whole story. 7 months were to be understood by one illogicality, which I repeat voted by the majority of the same day and discussed at the same session, but in any case it should be given experience, given the knowledge, given the practice in any case it should be commended and we can certainly call it one positive shift. And when we talk about a positive shift, then simply we at the HNS Club have a need to mention that at the beginning of 2009 we sent a decision to the Croatian Parliament which was discussed in the 4th and 3rd months. 4. is the will of the majority rejected where we have referred a proposal for a conclusion relating to companies of particular national interest, which is precisely on this trail, which is that once a year, the Government reports to the Croatian Parliament on the business of companies of special state interest, with the fact that we have specifically concentrated on 20 companies or public companies, companies that, to a considerable extent, determine the conditions, possibility, social moment and ultimately the future of our citizens with their business. However, this proposal has been rejected by the parliamentary majority's will. I'm glad the majority of them accepted the same story seven months later. But here are these changes today that fix the discrepancy between the left and right hand, and to make the story possible. Anyway, it needs to be supported. However, two things that we especially want to open up as a discussion. In fact, companies of particular national interest have this proposal 66 and it is clear that Croatian highways, Elektroprivreda, Croatian forests, are entering these companies of particular national interest, that I am not listing them now. However, there are a whole range of other companies, and to this day we have not received an answer which is precisely the substantive state interest in state-owned enterprises except that it is owned by the state. However, there are a whole range of companies that do not have that status of special state interest and owned by the Croatian Fund, so again owned by the state. There's a whole series. What criterion? If the criterion is to open the possibility for state officials to be allowed to join the Supervisory Board, then that should be made clear and loud. And I think that, as part of the announced economic recovery measures that are in several segments covering or by their proposal measures are solving this area, then we at the HNS Club believe that this list of companies of special state interest should also experience changes. There are 12 hotels in this list. Did they want the developmental levers of Croatian tourism, are they in that position? If so, it should be said very clearly or asked why some other sequence. But what is the purpose of the list of companies of particular state interest are hotels that we know of for a long time that their exit from the crisis, because they are mostly hotels that are in serious trouble, in business problems, their exit from the crisis just allows them not to be on this list or rather to get the state out of the ownership structure. Therefore, what are the motives for these companies to talk specifically about hotel companies, to include them in the list or in the list of companies of particular state interest and simply block their exit from the crisis? Or do I repeat again, are these perhaps in some future one of the levers of the development of Croatian tourism? Here are a whole series of questions that I don't go back to what my predecessors said, but I certainly think and think that they should be accepted to public enterprises that are of particular national interest. The debate in this Croatian Parliament has been extremely much so far. Something has also been announced by the recovery programme of the Croatian economy. However, the Government's opinion on our initiative is precisely the kind of nature that has been rejected, it was not to accept the proposal for the conclusion of trade societies of particular national interest, the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party because the monitoring of the business of public enterprises and companies of particular state interest in the Ministry of Finance, because the company's business of special state interest is being monitored and the resolution of the Ministry, depending on the activities of the company that have been allocated to the relevant portfolios. The Ministry of Finance draws up an annual report on the business of public enterprises. How are we doing with the business of public companies? It's familiar. That management or the top of some public companies ended up in Remetinco is known. That almost all public companies of particular national interest really think about those who greatly determine our terms of everyday standard, that USKOK is in all these public enterprises, is well known. Thus, the question arises, how did the Ministry of Finance monitor the business of public companies of companies of particular state interest? In what way so far? And whether something will change with this decision. It's hard to say. Therefore, we are all aware of the very good overall situation, that politics must have an impact on certain companies, it is clear to all, that politics must have its representatives in certain companies not populistally, but on the basis of the profession because of responsibility by nature of things it is clear to all. But the key is whether we are willing to do this job in a transparent manner, keeping the general interest, taxpayers' money, or not. I think that's the key. Whether the next reports will tell us it's hard to expect. It's hard to expect, and I can, I can already make a bet today that they certainly won't already have this first report. One of the future certainly will. And the first checkpoint is very close to us, extremely close to the beginning of the sixth month. By announcing or one of the key measures that we all or almost all welcome, one who does not welcome this measure does not understand the basics, the government's measure, I am talking about government measures provided for by the recovery programme of the Croatian economy, which is the payment of all the necessary and not the paid liabilities of public enterprises. The announcement is 1.6. Therefore, at the beginning of the sixth month, we all have the opportunity to check the seriousness at that checkpoint or rather to check the ability of those who will implement the announced economic recovery measures, the recovery programme of the Croatian economy, which definitely in all the key things everyone supports and thinks that consensus is not at all questionable. But let's say for example our initiative of the Croatian People's Party to talk about these public enterprises in the Croatian Parliament, so it was rejected, so in six months it was accepted. I think it's one practice that's not good, which is definitely harmful, but certainly one in a series that gives all of us in opposition cause to doubt whether what's announced will and will be carried out. Therefore, regarding this bill of law, the Croatian People's Party club will repeat once again support this proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52418	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52419	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club supports the proposal for a decision to amend a decision on the list of companies of particular national interest. In fact, it is only a prolongation of the deadline prescribed by the Government that all reports on the business of companies should be submitted on 30 August, which is impossible for objective reasons, and now this change moves the deadline within a month. We've heard here many criticisms on the account of the management and work of companies and that the government has done nothing in this field. However, it must be said that this government has actually made a step in that part. For the first time last year, the government began to reduce the number of members of the Supervisory Board. It reduced the number of companies from special state interest from 210 to 66. It reduced fees to members of the Supervisory Board, reduced salaries and managers, and also committed to delivering for the first time in the history of the Croatian State business reports to this Assembly here, which is indeed a step in relation to current policy, in relation to companies in the majority, or companies of particular state interest. We can't possibly be satisfied with the business of these companies over the past 20 years. But it's also a visible step, which is the result of the measures I've been saying, which is that in the first three months of this year, only 11 companies have increased profits by 105%. Obligations for suppliers were reduced by 33%. It's all the result of these measures I've been saying. But there's room for progress. However, this progress will not happen if we remove policy from the supervisory boards as counterpart Maras here said. In fact, politics doesn't mean intricacies either. Did one lawyer stop being a lawyer if he was a politician? Did he lose knowledge of the law if he's a politician? Doesn't a doctor know her by entering politics and losing her knowledge and training medically? Does a professor of economics stop being an economist because he's a politician? So, no policy from companies of particular national interest, but profession yes. Are we going to leave these societies to those who, in 20 days' time, have been trained to work on boards? Well, it's a mockery of schooling. That can't happen at all. But for a step in governance, there's a special way of managing companies. For companies to be managed, they need to be truly aware, but they also have experience. It is necessary to know both the micro-economics and the macro-economics, to know the legal environment, the social, political environment, to know the planning process, the process of organising, the process of managing human potential, the control of functions, the decision-making methods, the decision-making process, and not to list what needs to be known, and with experience. It is therefore necessary to pay more attention to the competences of those who manage companies. There have been cases of them being promoted to the level of their incompetence, and in that case there are more mistakes, there are more and more mistakes, and the consequences are growing. It should be pointed out that very often managers make mistakes, that their common mistakes are because they are not able to use the power given to them by this manager function. They also share that they do not know enough about governance, but they also need to know that the error structure is not the same with older managers and younger ones. Older managers are more familiar with business processes, and this is very important because they manage both property and processes and human potential, but they because of their mentality built in the former socialist system because of their habits acquired late always with decisions and are poorly organised, but they know better business processes. They also make an intuitive decision, and today, in market economy conditions, it is called for by intuitive decision. And how do young people work? How they manage to think they know everything. They want to show everyone their power, they want to show everyone they're in charge. They want to change everything and show everyone that nothing was right before them, and none of it is true. They take over the powers offered to them by function, and they take no responsibility. They're taking too many risks, and they don't like responsibility. They suffer from modern management diseases, pride and pride, and their motive becomes the most common of money and careers. And all of this then affects the reduction of effective governance. I'm not saying this to make our managers look worse than foreign managers now, but ours are better. It's just a matter of selection and selection criteria. And the education system for managers isn't right for us. The proper programs are missing, and the structure of professors at universities is not very desirable. On the contrary, in the lack of programs, they can even learn that they should be willing to take over everything, that they are willing to take any responsibility, and that is not true. However, there are also justified circumstances for inefficient management, which is an environment that has been created in recent times. The ambience of one where we prejudge every manager that he is prone to illegal actions and then all that happens around us affects that even lately they don't make decisions. Individuals are in fear because of what happened to others and also because of objective circumstances because today everyone is able to file criminal charges against everyone and condemn them in advance. Anonymous criminal charges have flooded a number of managers. In such circumstances, when someone, unfounded, unfoundedly accuses managers of affecting their efficiency, influences the efficiency of entire companies and affects creativity, and that is not good. And imagine managing 53.6 billion kuna worth of property. Well, that's one responsibility. And we have to make a step there. The choice of real, objective, good and professional can certainly result in good results. As you can see in some companies, better results than they were. But you also need to worry about increased loss in the first three months. in the Croatian Post Office or the Croat Airlines. But it is to praise the reduction of losses in other businesses or even the achievement of profits in some. Those who know and act properly should not be concerned about what criminal anonymous reports are being filed against them because often they are the consequences of those who do not like to work, the consequences of those who do not like justice or professionalism, but perhaps because some stakeholders because of certain business moves have been denied their interests and are then trying to discredit the manager who works properly and for the benefit of society and for the benefit of our country. Such ones must endure and must not be discouraged by such actions. They must distinguish right from wrong and do good no matter what they have to hear wrong about themselves. And those who stumbled need to know that they tripped solely because of their haughtiness. And that those who professionally respond to their task is that they have a good future ahead of them. This government has made, I say, a step towards companies, a positive one. But there's so much progress possible that we really need to work on it in the future. If one... The Central American Bank has seven members of the Supervisory Board then there is no need for a single supervisory board in Croatia to sit more than that number. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HDZ Club supports this decision as much as possible and will support any future decisions aimed at a more successful and efficient management of state-owned enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52420	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52421	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us, a technical proposal on the extension of the deadline for submission of the Report on the state of trade in companies of special national interest, so at the end of August 2010, is changing and it becomes the end of September 2010. It is also clear that according to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, the session of the Assembly was held from 15 July to 15 September, and thus it is somewhat harmonised, so the Report on the state of trade in companies of special state interest with the work of the Croatian Parliament. So, one technical question we have already passed on in the clubs in the debates so far into an interesting topic which was on the agenda in October 2009 when the list of companies, to tell the company or company, however we will, was on the agenda of the session of the Croatian Parliament. When it comes to these measures taken by the Government in connection with companies owned by the majority or part of the Republic of Croatia, either the Croatian Privatisation Fund, or the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, except for the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and others, then it cannot be noticed that this number is reduced from 210 to 66. I don't want to say two-letter burns, but that's 66, and of those 66 companies in Slavonia and Baranja, there are 7 on that list. When looking at the core capital of these societies, then we see that this is the share of companies of special state interest in Slavonia and Baranja even less than the number of so 66 to 7. So to name, it's about Borov, it's about Vupik, Luci Vukovar, in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. In the area of Osijek-Baranja County it is the IPK Osijek and Bizovac spa, then Đuro Đaković holding in Slavonski Brod and spa in Lipik in Požeko-Slavon County. I wish there was one on this list, such as Vupik or IPK Osijek, so the companies that are significant in the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia, that once again a very successful company, such as Jasinje in Slavonski Brod, is unfortunately not there anymore, is this 20-year policy and what happened in criminal privatisation and conversion led to such successful companies as Jasinje in Slavonski Brod, simply disappearing, to wipe out the economic operators of the Republic of Croatia. There was talk of hotel complexes and hotels which are also companies of special state interest, and then from the HNS Club came some suggestion whether it was better to privatise it than to stay on the part of the Croatian state in therefore in these hotel houses, but we are aware and we are witnessing that we have very ugly and sad examples like Sunny Hvar and others where it was done and that today the problem is multiple, and that both Hvar and the employees of Sunny Hvar and also the citizens of the Republic of Croatia really hurt the head of those problems that happened in this regard. There have also been conversations about the salaries of managers who are really if we do not have that data, and I would like to have in these companies in these 66 but also those who are not on this list to see how much pay there really is in relation to salaries in the Republic of Croatia was average, or minimal, I know that responsibility is probably great, but I think that a large number of managers who do not share equal liability have very high salaries in these companies, but also those who are not on this list, the list. I received information that in one of our semiprivitated companies over 200 managers has a salary of more than 40 thousand kuna, I will not deliberately speak the name of that company. Now, Mr. Maric said that there are places for progress, and he cited examples of 11 companies that have made a move in terms of positive business already this year, and thanks to government measures, a different relationship, a reduction in the number of members of the Supervisory Board, etc. There have been Mr. Maricu before, places before for good business. Not just 2010 or the first three months 2010. For 20 years, the companies are therefore the Croatian portfolio of the Croatian State, or the Croatian Privatisation Fund, meaning only this year, which was why there was no movement before. How can we now record some shifts, although in Croatia the post office and as you said in Croatia, we record losses in that part. Podravka. So a sublevel with a classic or typical example of how everyone swears that no one knew anything, and Croatia has a state, has its share in Podravka. We know who the participants are, and who's being processed who's in the process hasn't been processed yet, who's in the process of these actions that happened in Podravka. And do you think, or do we, that the Deputy Prime Minister is the former Deputy Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, and the other Deputy Prime Minister who were, so I'm talking directly about Mr. Sanader, and today's Prime Minister didn't know anything about what was going on in Podravka, although the sub-level has a good share of the Croatian state in that company. I didn't know anything, I didn't know anything, please. We know where the director of the hospital or home of health will be appointed in any municipality in the Republic of Croatia but we knew nothing about Podravka. The exact composition of the supervisory boards in hospitals is known by name, each Prime Minister knows exactly, or his minister in charge of healthcare knows exactly who his hospital director will be. The competence that Mr. Maric spoke of and with which I agree should be the main criterion of putting people on boards as well as the management of all the companies and companies that are listed here and not only them but also others. Competence does not mean that all politicians are not as competent as suggested on this left. Competence stems from the expertise of proven honesty and proven expertise, not from political belongings, nor do I know what and political action, even honesty stems from political action. But clearly there are people in this country who are in a position or place of politicians, and they can be expert in positions on boards and boards of directors. However, I have procedured myself in the way in which some cases are set, completely disabling such a desired practice. He's listed Mr. Maras cases like this and there's really no room for this kind of thing if we want to go forward. And not only are those 11 companies that Mr. Maric spoke of progressed, but everyone else did. It's a little 11 companies out of 66. Class for the board of directors, so please be nice. So a well-informed professor at the university remembers to take a course for members of the supervisory board and charges 18 thousand kuna a five-day course for a board member. 30 certificates of gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, gold, So look the people of Slavonski Brod is such a course was conducted for 30 students times 18 thousand kuna, there went 540 thousand kuna or half a million kuna for teachers who passed that course. Do you think they're smarter now? You think they can manage companies that are not qualified at all, which are not from that profession at all, and are not from the profession that is close to the job or the activity that the company is carrying out. I'm not going to name names, but they're here amongst us, there are MPs. Competence, it's just a desired formulation, Mr. Maric and I would love it very much, and I agree with you, is that this is how it's done and that's how it works. Unfortunately, here we are witnessing that both the government itself and the prime minister who set up as Mr. Maras said his spokeswoman to the FINA Supervisory Board doesn't quite work that way. They say fish from the head of death not from the tail. Casualty, pride of money and career qualities of some managers in our society. What contributed to that? Can't we have different managers? Are we in this so as not to be angry with the secretary of state, to say to pre-debt slavery, in fact, become moral slaves of the West and those who are so happy to lend us loans by going to New York or anywhere else, and then we act in these regulations and see their way of life, which is not currently going to the Republic of Croatia. Clearly, the supervisory boards and administrations in these companies have precisely distributed power, party power and influence. And out of this way, the concept of members of the Supervisory Board and their functions results in both nepotism and clientelism, which is at work in the Republic of Croatia. Until I figure it out, I don't know if we're gonna go right ahead. It's what someone called a birth policy, but this name that may have been hidden in these two sides of the word nepotism, clientelism is all more than clear. After all, at the end of September, we will have the opportunity to see these results and the results audited by the State Audit. I wouldn't like this verb to be revised by being in some kind of negative connotation. Because reviewing to know a lot of things. Both according to proper and orderly business and accounting but according to a report that can be audited in terms of hiding something. Anyway, we'll accept this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52422	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52423	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic would rather replicate with you, but I must correct one of your allegations. You said that the appointment of managers is done in agreement between parties and coalition partners. That's not exactly true, because it has credible information about several managers who survived and changed power, just a few. And those who do bad business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52424	At 12.52, it was time to report a ten-minute debate on this subject. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52425	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The change of this decision contains only one fact that the deadline for the Government to come before the Parliament must be extended with a report on business of general special state interest. This list also includes not only a list of companies of particular national interest but also a list of supervisory committees or bodies in which public officials or those entitled to a clientele under a coalition ruling agreement may be appointed. However, the move, and with counterpart Maric of HDZ, agrees, is done in the very fact that the report on the business of these companies will end in the parliament and not only in the government. And we welcome that. However, with two documents produced in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and both of them from this year, not earlier, I will try to illustrate the importance of the arrival of such a report before the Parliament may have within itself, that is, how these reports work, and I would say even falsify. The first example is Croatian forests. In fact, in the report of the State Audit of the Forest Advisory Service, I found that in 2007, out of 89 million kunas collected from the title of the contribution to the general usefulness of the forest function, only 6.8% were spent. While the rest of the money was spent on purpose. That's what the State Audit report says. Looking at the Law on the Forests, I found that every year the Croatian Forests must submit a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the collected contribution and the way it is used. And for this reason, I sent a written parliamentary question to the resolution minister, and he answered me on February 12th of this year in a way that he forwarded me the answer he received from the Administration of the Croatian Forests. So, he did not write the answer, but he sent me a reply, so Minister Pankretic, in response to the parliamentary question, sent me a reply from the Administration of the Croatian Forests signed by Darko Vukelić, which reads: "The State Secretary" quotes: "Croatian forests supply annual financial reports to the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Resord Ministry, Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy." The second sentence "Croatian forests have so far not received feedback on whether this material was the subject of discussion at one of the meetings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia." I reviewed the government's agenda for two years and at no meeting of the government was the item Report of the Croatian Forests on the spending of funds collected at 0,07%. I requested this report from the Croatian Forests and received for 2007 and the eighth in which it is really visible that the 2007 report of the State Audit on only 6.9% of dedicated use is confirmed. But what's even more catastrophic. The 2008 report also shows that only 32 million were spent instead of around 105 million to be spent under the Forest Law. And I get that in response to the parliamentary question without any comment and signature of the Minister and the fact that this report of the Croatian Forests has not been considered at any session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And the woods claim to have passed it through the Resorving Ministry. And I end up with the fact that the 2009 plan was also put together by law. If the government had considered this report of the Croatian Forests for at least one year before the State Audit, they would have found that 80 million kunas were spent outside the law. And perhaps not before the crisis has proposed what the government is proposing, that this contribution be reduced or abolished, because it is clearly not needed, because Croatian forests spend it beyond the law for some other functions. That's the first proof. It's a public company. Second. Are these listed companies used to finance humanitarian actions, sports, technical culture, culture or science? There's no money. Social rights should be reduced. I asked a representative question and got an answer on March 4th of this year, not last year, from which it is evident that companies on this list, and I only took the one in which the state owns more than 50% in last year for to God's humanitarian purposes have distributed and distributed 11 million and 136000, and for sport, technical culture, culture and science of incredible 80 million and 642000. When you add that up, it's about 94 million kunas of money that's supposed to end up in the state budget. But that's not all! No, I don't. Croatia's insurance for sports and technical culture last year has set out to imagine 43 million 452000 according to a former administration report. ... the information that this is a false information, and the answer to the parliamentary question was signed by Prime Minister Kosor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That, in fact, more than 80 million were singled out for sport and that the former administration faked data when it gave data at the request of the prime minister. Croatia's electricity industry was so generous that it singled out as much as 23 million kunas for sport last year. Croatian forests 2 and a half million. If these 94 million kunas were to end up in the state budget, and not for these companies to act as benefactors, sponsors for different purposes, with a reminder that on the supervisory boards of these companies they are officials and these are government officials. The question arises as to what kind of reports have come before the government, and even before the supervisory committees, if possible, that false data comes from these companies at the request of the Prime Minister. If the Croatian Forests are sent through the Minister or Ministry a report in the anti-zacon use of funds, and for three years no one reacts to what will the report in the Parliament be worth in September for the last year? To re-establish illegal spending, irresponsibility, insubordination, and I would dare say that these 94 million sponsorships for different purposes have mostly gone as I have had the opportunity to hear when talking or negotiating the question of the president of a administration, if I give you a donation of what use do I have? That question of what use I have meant was that it expected at least 10% to return to him, but not the company, but to him personally. 94 million of these companies faked charities, sponsorships and these data were delivered to the government. I expected when you see these figures in the government, and among them are a large number of losers, losers who ask for help from the state, hotel houses, companies, that at least you will propose or the government will bring the regulation to companies with largely state-owned lists of social interest are forbidden to donate funds for sport, culture, technical culture and for humanitarian purposes, because it is not their job. It's possibly the job of the state, and the extra funds that they've been pampering with so far belongs to the state budget. It's not too late for a regulation like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52426	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52427	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, you told your colleague, Lesar, what good would it be to have the reports done by the end of September, and not until the end of August, because that's the only thing that changes in this list? However, I think the question really matters what benefit it will be, but I think it would be much more important, because it probably won't be any special benefit because things will happen as they do in August or September, but what happens at this point, which is that these state-owned companies, i.e. companies that are directly influenced by the state, are creating an enormous debt that is going towards creating a huge indifference, because precisely by not paying state-owned companies, are coming into a difficult situation to become inequitable, that companies that are not state-owned companies are paying off certain jobs for them are becoming insolvent companies. So, they come into a situation of one-and-a-half indifference, which results in normal and loss of jobs, or people who work in these companies don't get paid. So I think it's much more important than whether it's August or September for us to be in the process of happening and preventing certain problems that arise because these state-owned companies are not fulfilling the obligations they should have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52428	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52429	My colleague Bodakoš is now actually wondering if there should be a report before the Parliament on the business of these state-owned companies or the report on the work of the supervisory committees? I want to believe that nothing can happen in that company without the Supervisory Board knowing about it. Wouldn't we get more quality data if we were getting a monitoring board report? However, the subject of discussion is the power and competence of the supervisory boards. Because if such things could happen to give incorrect information at the request of the Prime Minister, that the reports that must by law be held at the cabinet's session, the resolution minister does not allow the government's session, such as the Croatian Forests, would be a case for me far more than a report from those people who, on behalf of the State, oversee the work of the corporate administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52430	Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52431	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here is the decision, practically as soon as it comes to the Parliament for acceptance, it is already experiencing changes, i.e. a deadline is being shifted for the submission of reports to this Chamber on the business of companies of particular national interest. We have also warned of a number of problems that exist in trading societies, and not only then, but also a comprehensive and comprehensive interpretation from which the government, the ruling majority, has rejected important conclusions. The essential conclusions that have been rejected are the non-substantiation of business plans in these companies, state-owned companies, for the next 3 years, which is an essential and necessary prerequisite for any future functioning of a serious company. Also, what was also rejected, it was our proposal to make an analysis of the work of the supervisory committees. And the question arises how can we believe that the intentions are really to be done in the government, i.e. in state-owned enterprises, they're honest and they're real. We simply can't, especially after the Prime Minister's decision has been made and has expressed her desire for the government's board of directors to have experts sitting on boards, a week later she just violated the same decision and appointed people on the political line to the Supervisory Board. And that's what creates mistrust not only with us opposition, because we're used to it, but mistrust in the system and mistrust in the citizens. How can it happen in which country a chairman of a supervisory board who has cared and controlled the operations of HEP, a state-owned company, one of the key companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, become after controlling the business and after the administration has been removed, becoming president of the administration? So this is what we want to warn you, that it cannot be managed in this way by state-owned enterprises that receive donations of 2.9 billion kuna per year from the state budget and which last year achieved 2 billion kunas less business results compared to the previous year. 2 billion kuna is not small, 2 billion kuna is one Peljek bridge, which unfortunately is not made. The point of the story of everything we put emphasis on is that there is no strategy in the management of companies, and therefore it is no wonder that you rejected our plan to subscribe to the Parliament a report on the business of each of the state-owned companies for a period of three years. And when there is no strategy then it is no wonder that indifference in the system is growing, and I will remind you that according to some data from the 5 largest companies, these are HEP, HAC, Croatian roads, Croatian railways and INA have over 11 billion kunas of outstanding liabilities. This puts all state-owned companies, not to mention the central state and the Republic of Croatia's budget, in a position to owe almost half the total amount of debt. And then we can't talk about internal indifference being blamed for business immorality, or irregularities. It's just that there's been a riot in state-owned enterprises and they've become the i.e. They're the main generator, one of the main indifference generators. When we proposed measures a year and a half ago through all bill proposals many of which did not even come to the agenda, much of them were rejected. At the same time, it was done by the United States, at the same time by the European Commission, and then the crisis in this House was denied by the ruling. And then it's no wonder that this is the first concrete measure, and that's what the guarantee fund has experienced a complete debacle. From this fund, practically by releasing the liquidity reserve from the CNB of nearly 4 billion kuna, the economy has not gotten away with anything, and that is the basic problem, why, because it was supposed to be done a year and a half ago. That was supposed to happen the day before yesterday, and especially not today, not tomorrow. And that's why 120,000 people are out of work, people who are in some way due to negligence, because of an inadequate reaction sacrificed. 120 thousand people who have lost their jobs, their families who cannot afford even about the same things that Croatia could afford in a deep structural crisis without exiting and perception of leaving the crisis. When we talk about it, then we need to look back at the total revenue of 70 billion kuna generated by state-owned companies. It's huge money, it's more than half the state budget, and when it's actually all summed up by the state, that is. Politics manages more than 70% of that in this country. And it is therefore extremely important and as these money is spent, we keep saying it, it is extremely important who sits in administrations and that administrations should be appointed on the basis of a public tender. It is extremely important that expert and competent people sit on the supervisory boards, not on the political line, because that is the way political corruption is done and that is how things don't work out. 70 billion kuna in these companies, they can be added to the companies under which the share of state ownership is below 25% and recently presented a programme of government measures to save the economy, which comes after 11 months, 10 months after Prime Minister Kosor took over the government presidency, again a very long period and again very late, and again, unfortunately only on a slide show and not on concrete proposals that come into this House. These measures are not aimed at creating a new value but at tax redistribution, certain savings, but we lack a measure aimed at creating a new value. Because if the Croatian economy doesn't grow we won't have anything to tax. We eat our own tissue, and that's what worries us, with these measures aimed at tax redistribution being done the day before yesterday, not even yesterday, especially today or tomorrow. So we have reason to worry, we have no reason for either euphoria nor optimism when it comes to these measures, and in particular we have no reason for euphoria and optimism when it comes to the sale of state stakes in enterprises whose share is less than 25%. When you sell with one such measure a government stake in companies then you need to know what you're going to point that money at, you have to have a concrete plan to direct the money from selling the state stake in that company. However, this is not indicated in this plan, where this should be directed, or simply to the state budget only programmed to service current obligations or to patch up the holes that are there and grow. And that's the difference in concept, the difference in what we want to do and what we want to be responsible for is governance in state-owned enterprises, and I must remind you once again that you refused not to accept the conclusions of the interpretation, and these are the conclusions that call for decency, they are not radical, they are simply a desire for state-owned companies to substitute their business plans for the next 3 years as responsible companies, and to see from them an analysis of the work of the supervisory boards and that you refused and we at the SDP Club do not see any valid reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52432	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52433	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of a colleague who has found that the Fund for Economic Development is a failed project. I think it's absolutely unprofessional, incompetent to claim measures that only a few days ago went to the third round of competitions, which are also aimed at liquid liquidity and debt reprogramme and new investments and expect some effects overnight. So it can't simply be ignored that the minimum 60 billion kuna is injected into the economy and this second part that you said that the economic recovery programme doesn't bring anything to the economy. So look you have at least two subtitles, which is finance, economy and one can also tell science where 10 very concrete measures are prescribed to enable the development of the economy but also create a more quality framework for business of economic operators.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52434	Thank you. Now we're going to interrupt the debate, because television transmission's been cut off as well. We will continue at 3 p.m. with a debate on the presentation of Mr. Davor Hushka's representative on this subject. After 15 hours, after the end of this debate, there is a debate on the proposal for candidates to elect a member of the State Judicial Council from the order of university professors of science, so the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, etc. It may still be possible to conclude today with item 12 of the revised agenda and tomorrow we would only have a vote at 11 o'clock on the debated agenda points. 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52435	My colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we continue our afternoon work. An individual debate is under way. Davor Huška was announced, he gave up the debate, there are no other applications. I therefore conclude an individual debate. Proposer representatives nothing. So I'm also concluding a debate at this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52436	We move on to the proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the list of companies of special national interest. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the list of companies of special national interest. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that this decision has been made by majority vote, 124 votes in favour, nothing against and one abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52437	And we move to item 7 of the agenda, which is - Proposed candidate for election of a member of the State Judicial Council of the University of Legal Sciences Professors is the Proposer of the Committee on Justice. The Committee on Justice has submitted a proposal on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 34. The State Judicial Council Act. You received the materials by mail. Proposer's representative, further explanation? There isn't. There's no record of the hearing? If there's no record of a hearing, then I'm also closing this agenda. Since more candidates have been proposed, a secret vote will be held in accordance with Article. 231. Rules of Procedure. This article determines that a secret vote shall be held as a rule in the election, i.e. a designation in the case where the number of candidates proposed is greater than the number to be elected, i.e. nominate. They'll vote tomorrow as announced, so around 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52438	And we move on to a proposal for candidates to elect a member of the State Judiciary Council from the order of university professors of legal science. The Proposer of the Committee on Justice, as more candidates have been proposed, will be implemented in accordance with Article 231. The Rules of Procedure are a secret vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that three MPs help me with the implementation and I propose Emil Tomljanovic, Sonja Simunovic and Marijana Petir. I'm opening a debate. There's no argument. Do we agree? We agree, okay. I'm setting a break of 45 minutes, that means 12 and 50, maybe before. So 12 and 45. Okay, here's the result of the vote for a member of the State Judicial Council of the Order of the University of Legal Sciences Professors. I declare that out of the 153 MPs of the ballot, 111 MPs for a member of the State Judicial Council in the order of university professors of legal science voted 111 MPs, invalids... how is this 111 and another one? Yeah, the invalids of these 111 were 1. Professor Dr. Boris Bukljas received 98 votes, Professor Alan Seljec 10, Professor Dr. Petar Veic 2. I declare that a member of the State Judicial Council of the University of Legal Sciences has been elected Professor Boris Bukljas. I congratulate the new member of the State Judiciary Council on his election and wish him success in his work. This report was written by Mrs Sonja Šimunović, Mrs Marijana Petir and Mr Emil Tomljanovic. I am closing the session, and the next session will be notified on time. I want you to feel comfortable and spend this time in active rest. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52440	We then move on to the 8th point of the agenda, that is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 530 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an emergency procedure in accordance with Article. 159. Rules of Procedure, emergency procedure, first and second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(2). 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Reports from the board's session were received at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and by the Committee on Law. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. State Secretary Josip Kraljičković. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52441	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected parliamentary MPs, allow me to briefly explain the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development. Due to the economic situation whose negative effects have been significantly reflected in the agriculture sector, but also in fisheries, we have approached the creation of amendments and additions to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development. The most important amendment in this law concerns the increase in the amount of direct payments received above which family holding holdings are required to be entered in the Register of Obligors of Income Taxes. A single threshold of 24 thousand kuna received from direct payments is proposed above which a registration of taxpayers is required. This threshold will apply from this year 2010. In the current law, there were 2 thresholds, unlike 2010 and 2011, we believe that this is a much more acceptable proposal from the point of view of implementation and from the point of view of the farmers themselves. The second change relates to the area of fishing incentives. In order to separate structural support in fisheries from other agricultural aids, it was necessary to clearly determine what would happen to the current fishing incentives? It is our intention that these support be completed by the time we enter the EU, which we have made clear in the amendments to this law. Therefore, production incentives in marine and freshwater fisheries will be used at least this year and next 2011. At the same time, a system of structural support will be developed gradually, which is the main way in which this sector is encouraged when we join the EU. We already adopted the framework for these support by adopting the Structural Support Act in Fisheries in December last year. Maintaining an existing model of production incentives in fisheries will contribute to the sustainability of business entities in our fishing sector that have been making more exports than imports for years and thus confirm their importance. In fact, these producers were also not spared the effects of the global economic crisis and the early abolition of these incentives was not an option we would accept. However, we have made sure that production incentives in fisheries must also be subject to financial discipline provisions, similar to that of agriculture incentives. In this respect, it is more precise that the means of production incentives in fisheries should also be aligned with the available incentives in the budget. This means that the amounts that we continue to keep in the law on all paragraphs are actually the highest amounts that can be paid in accordance with the budget available. Of the other changes, I point out they're technical, mostly. That allows the allocation of funds collected by modulation to all types of state aid in agriculture and rural development. It is also clearer to sign the method of calculating the right to direct payments as well as to align the conditions for the exercise of the right to direct payments in organic production with the organic production law of agricultural products. I can also say immediately in the introduction that, as a proposaler on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we accept the proposed amendments from the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52442	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Honey? colleague Zgrebec, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its meeting on 21st and 23rd April, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development discussed the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development as a parent working body. The debate was attended by representatives of HGK, HOK, Croatian Agricultural Chamber and HUP. It was assessed by a positive proposal to keep fishing incentives in the present form until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full EU membership. In order to preserve the stability of small family farms, it is also supported by the proposal that the obligation to enrol in the Register of Obligors of Income Taxes be prescribed for those family holdings which in the previous year achieved 24 thousand kunas of direct investment receipts. In the current provisions of the Law, this amount was supposed to be 12 thousand for 2010, followed by 7200 kuna. The good ones also assessed the increase in the threshold for the calculation of modulation from 36 to 100 thousand, which was covered by previous amendments and additions to the Law. The debate contains concrete comments. Article 2(2) of the fifth subparagraph of Article 10(2) considers that it is necessary to define more clearly incentives for the commercial and organic production of fish products from the 4th group and to intervene in the text of the draft law in this respect. It is expressed of dissatisfaction that Article 5 is amended in Article 18, as regards Article 18(4) of the current Act, that the funds collected by modulation will no longer be used to finance rural development measures but can be used to finance state aid in agriculture in the current year. Given the need for continued improvement in the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, the best results achieved so far by only large companies have been given the opinion that the modulation system should not be at their expense. The proposaler's representative recalled that so far only 5% of the total number of support users has received more than 57% of the total support based on direct payments. In view of the importance of absorption capacity, in line with this ability to use the European Union's financial resources in an appropriate manner as part of the implementation of pre-accession funds, in particular the SAPARD programme, the opinion was expressed that the Republic of Croatia had significantly less time to prepare the SAPARD programme than other transition countries and after the discussion was carried out, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development, together with the following amendment: ‘In Article 2 of the additional paragraph 5 of the fifth subparagraph, the words are also amended as follows: Fish products of the 4th group, frozen fish products in packaging with the required declaration, according to the product type of packaging in individual packagings up to a maximum of 10 kg for domestic market or for exports of unlimited quantities intended human nutrition, as well as the text of discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52444	Thank you very much, dear colleague Zgrebec. The Legislative Committee? There isn't. Then we're going to a club debate. The first came from a respected counterpart, Zlatko Koračević, on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52445	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The theme of support for agriculture and rural development has already been in recent times we had a basic law last year at 6 months, so changes at 12 months, so changes now at 4 months, it is obvious that we are trying quickly to do what we haven't done long ago. It is certain that all these activities and not only on the subject of support but the whole set of laws relating to agricultural production and fisheries are for the purposes of accelerated coordination, accelerated because in time we have lost quite a lot of time, not to return to the total damage and state of agriculture, spent resources of the state budget, the impact of these funds, which has also been spent a lot of words, however, for all our citizens who are resident for all our citizens who are engaged in agricultural production, remains the situation to be corrected more precisely for most of it is still a critical situation, unlike some who are engaged in agricultural production or are engaged in agricultural production as an additional activity, this story is precisely thanks to the aids and the unsettled support system is extremely profitable, it is practically possible to say bread without distraction. However, I repeat a lot of words about it spent, and I have no intention of repeating it because speaking has not had a more powerful influence and a more significant impact on changing things in this area. The reform of state aid in agriculture itself is not important to us, even if it is necessary, it is not so important for us to coordinate with the European Union, it is far more important for us because of the survival and progress of Croatian agriculture and the preparation of Croatian agriculture for all that awaits them very soon, which is waiting for them to join the European Union, and whether and how much we have prepared them is the fact that in practically 7 months one and the same topic, we are constantly adapting with a few amendments to the articles. In particular, these amendments and additions to the Law on State support for agriculture and rural development change two key things. And this is the first thing that small family agricultural holdings have to object very clearly to one transitional period in the income tax system and something that we at the 12th month very clearly objected to that 7 thousand kuna limit, will create an additional cost to small farmers and that this should be raised to the amount that is now verified by this law. This is what we suggested, we prayed at 12 months very elegantly to solve with one amendment, and surely in these 4 months, all of our agricultural producers would not be in the situation they are in today, and today we provide them with something that we have objected to. It's probably because we've seen this problem in opposition, so that's why that story didn't go away, which is generally not good. Next, normal fishing sector. The very fact that we recently passed the Marine Fisheries Act and because of the discrepancies with these amendments to the State Support Act in Agriculture and Rural Development, we need to coordinate these things. And now we come, in my opinion one very important thing to say, which is namely the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that is Article 27a. It is prescribed that when proposing laws and other acts that are in the government's control, that the impact assessment of this legislative proposal should be made, and the impact assessment decision, not only financially, we get this regularly in all proposals from the Government that come to us in the parliamentary debate, we get an impact assessment on the budget, on finances. But in the 2007 Workbook, the government says that the government has to make an impact assessment on the economy that it has to make an assessment of social impacts, that it has to make an assessment of environmental impacts. I'm asking you, in one law so far other than assessing the financial effects, have we had an impact assessment on the economy in any law so far? Proposal for a law relating to the area of agriculture. Have we had since the government an impact assessment on agricultural production by means of a legislative proposal addressed to the parliamentary procedure? We didn't have one. I think that this very fact speaks a lot about the government's work, about the government's assessment when it comes to certain legislative proposals, legislative proposals specifically in this case and this law, to a significant extent, define the possibility and opportunity of agricultural producers. And that this impact assessment was made by the Government in the basic law on state aid that we discussed in the 6th month last year, which was in the function of preparing the framework for agricultural production until the entry into the European Union in the preparation function that was missed in coordination with the common European agricultural policy, that we had no doubt today would not have discussed this proposal of the law. Perhaps, but certainly what has created a problem with our agricultural production's current legal proposals, regardless of what created them one situation, that no matter how hard they worked on their agricultural production with that agricultural production, they are at a disadvantage, unsustainable. And there's now our responsibility. We take that responsibility out of opposition, for example whether 7,000 or 24 thousand things we talked about in the 12th month. And finally, we at the Croatian People's Party club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the State Support Act in agricultural and rural development with the Final Bill of Law. However, we are also warning whether this implementation of the announced government measures will ensure adequate responsibility for agricultural producers? We want to believe. But the time before us will soon show. And we want to warn of another thing that we think is space, that the possibility is especially for small agricultural economies, that's the area of rural development. Do I have a rural development strategy, is it consistent with European policy, is it consistent with the potential opened in European funds at the moment we enter the European Union? Funds from the so-called modulations were foreseen for rural development. We are now taking from rural development and directing the entire register to cover those minuses that were created by irresponsible promises to agricultural producers, in order to calm down their completely justified revolt. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, I think this Croatian Parliament should be given information when there will be a strategy on rural development, where are we in rural development? If we do not have that information in the Croatian Parliament, I ask you what information our citizens have, especially in rural areas, and especially regarding the possibility of financing rural development in the time ahead? Or are we still tied to large systems and systems and large consumers, so far consumers of all support in agricultural production? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52446	Thank you very much, colleagues. We have sociology students from the Faculty of Philosophy with us. And our colleague is their teacher and proud to be here. I greet them. And we continue the debate. On behalf of the SDSS Club, dear colleague Mile Horvat. Here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52447	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the secretary of state with my associate. So, the proposal to amend and supplement the Agricultural Support Act is obviously an inexhaustible topic because we open this topic every 6 months, and every 6 months we try to regulate something that is obviously going to be more difficult for us in the future, increasingly difficult and difficult to regulate to some general satisfaction. I am proposing to amend this law which you have proposed here, which concerns the fisheries and incentives sector in fisheries and fisheries, which we fully support because we are fully satisfied and we consider the logical explanation that you have given in the opening part. I would love it if all these measures that the ministry is investing in both this sector and other sectors, and now we're talking about fishing contributed to at least returning to fishing for that amount of production that we had before the war, so I guess today in Baranja, if I wanted to eat a good fisch, I wouldn't have to do that from carps imported from Hungary. It's one practical thing, and it's definitely so that we don't have some quality freshwater fish farm in that space. However, this debate moved me to do something else. I was moved by the question and the answer we received yesterday on our representative benches, and the question was asked by a colleague named Petyr. It also relates to the category of incentives in agriculture, and it asked the fact that support from the state budget is also received by the importers of agricultural products. So, the importers of agricultural products so there are food products there, and then it finds out, and I quote "that Croatia encourages imports to its own expense". Of course this opens, this finding opens up a number of questions about the overall state of the agrarian and opens up a number of issues related to the category of incentives. In her reply, the government responded competently, and she said among other things that the abolition or reduction of the right to support the importers of agricultural products would be a complex issue first. Second, in order to limit this, this restriction on support would exclude importers of agricultural and food products and could be interpreted as a measure that violates the principle of equal treatment, freedom of competition, non-discrimination, etc. etc. In the second part of the answer, the government says that last year, agricultural products worth 984m euros were exported in absolute amounts and imports of a billion and 600m euros were imported. So there is one imbalance to the damage of imports of 633m euros. Any comment on this topic would in some way be made up, but it has in any case opened the space to discuss and the incentives, the effectiveness of the incentives of all kinds. So, about everything the state has invested and transferred into the development of agrarians over the past 10 years. First of all, I'm going to say some kind of my vision of that problem, so let me put it this way. First, we think that the state has done a good job by now with a system of incentives and such a type of policy towards manufacturers, because hundreds and hundreds of acres of land have been raised in that area of Eastern Slavonia and Baranja, so let's say that my county of Osijek-Baranja County has become the most squishy county. The highest hectare of plums has been raised in the Republic of Croatia in just the last five years in the Republic of Croatia. Hundreds of vineyards were erected, plastics. We also have raised in a private arrangement, so smaller owners, lots of milk cows in some of the last European technologies. It's unfortunate that these people had to mortgage their entire assets to raise those farms. The truth is also there that we could have had a little more control in the sortiment. So, mostly, something that is not like that climate and something that could have problems in market placement tomorrow. But the fact is that when people entered this business and believed in some kind of stability that the legal provision on sustainability of incentives guaranteed them, they guaranteed some real income each year by category of incentives, and they therefore entered into major responsibilities, perhaps by someone's assessment, maybe this mechanism is both overpriced and uneconomic, etc. But the fact is that it was done believing in a legal provision that she said and guaranteed, so not as some government decision that could be changed or some administrative authority, but as the highest act of this state, that is, this House is defined by a system of incentives and support. And that was one of the key reasons why people decided to go into some of their own risks and get into such high credits. That's how it was created, as we once did, somewhere around 170,000 O.P.G.s. If we take that every OPG or average OPG has three family members, maybe four, and one more. So, some average four we see that the activity of the agrarians is about half a million inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. This is one large number of people, and if what is well done, then it was done that the establishment of these OPGs absorbed a very large number of unemployed people who had lost their jobs due to the transformation, i.e. the privatisation of former social enterprises due to the abolition of cooperatives, ransom cells, etc. Therefore, if what is well done has been done with such a policy of incentives so far, the rise in hectares of nada, which we have formed a solid cadastre for entry into the European Union even though we could extend it even these two years and increase it more quality. But I don't know why we didn't. And what people have been engaged in in the OPG system, they've learned, they've entered the VAT system, they've become sort of small businessmen. Today we have a situation that is not a bit promising. So, starting from that, we find that incentives for basic categories are reduced, which are fundamental to primary producers. And the less question is how it's going to pay off. They remain to support the redeemers, which in some cases I find rather illogical. In particular, I said and I will say once again if there are only two fruit-buying coolers throughout Slavonia according to some ULO standards, ULO coolers according to European standards, then it is perfectly normal that they are monopolies and that they choose from whom they will buy, from whom they will not buy, from whose goods they will store, whose goods they will not. And such monopolies still get some 80-pound-a-pound grant from the state. So the apple is guaranteed a price of 2 and a half kuna. Of those two-and-a-half states, they give them 80 lips for ransom, and then they classify that stuff, and usually, in most cases, they pay it as a second class under the kuna and a half. So there's open a room for manipulation by these buyers for the simple reason they're monopolies because they're the only ones. And it's happening and it's very detimulative. And in the space where I come from, a lot of people are disappointed with this kind of one policy and being questioned more, many are in the dilemma of whether to deal with this production or not. Today we have, as we have said, as the Government has recognised and the category of incentives to the importers. That doesn't make much sense to me either, not too clear. If we have enough of our own production of neoliberalism and the neoliberal market does not assume the promotion of imports. That's some weird incentive. But the fact that the result is that domestic goods are not bought out, that we have Chilean wine on the shelves, that we have Chinese onions, that we have, I don't know what we don't have. We all know that well. And at the same time, we're throwing fruit, we're losing it, people are having trouble buying cattle. The only thing that works in some way is buying milk. In that entire segment of that agricultural production. So, I'm saying some kind of experience from the space I come from. So, all together, there is some conclusion that such a single production in which the state has invested a tremendous amount of living resources over the past 10 years has become, in some way, a hostage of import lobbying or some monopolies, both the concession monopolies and the imports of such a monopolies in the sale. And the third thing I would say is a category of land concessions we didn't talk about. It doesn't have much to do with this, but in the context of all these events I think it should be commented because it happens that in the space of Eastern Slavonia and Baranja the concession was given for 30 years and that the price of concession per hectare today is 260 kuna. It is mostly a agricultural area and municipalities, not to list which, the revenue from the concession is their basic income. And if you are now paying as an individual farmer, an individual, you are forced to pay 120 or 150 euros a hectare per year, and the concessionaire was given the right to take 17,000 hectares in one municipality per hectare per 30 years. I'm asking a mathematical question, how many funds have the community budget been cut off over the years? Or how many infrastructure things could be done in that municipality? How much quality of life could be improved if the price of the concession was adjusted in accordance with all the costs as are the costs of our lives corrected? And then tomorrow we're going to talk about incompetence, insolvency of some units of local self-government, and we're going to say because you don't have income, you don't make income, we're going to shut you down. And to be even more tragic and this little concession income is not paid up-to-date but carried even in the second year, so they show themselves in the final accounts problems etc. Therefore, if we now have the fact that we have such low concessions, cheap concessions, if we have the fact that we have incentives to produce, incentives to buy, incentives to import, so for a time we have had capital investments up to 40% capital return on large investments, and we know who could use large investments. It is not certain that a farmer who is over-indebted because of some basic things could enter major investments and return large capital investments but has done so large systems, and we have a negative stock balance, then we can simply ask the question of which position and in what context is our village present before entering the EU and even more stringent rules and European markets and the sale of goods, the purchase of goods and even more severe treatment regarding what we are doing today, and these are incentives, etc. So this is something that I needed to say because I thought it was a cross-section of the state and a way of existentiality or the non-existentity of our peasants. I'm afraid the village is coming to an ever-increasing crisis and we're going to have this problem as a much bigger problem tomorrow. I totally agree with the predecessor that we should have defined as strategic documents by now and regional development and rural development, and I don't know, we'll probably do it by the end of the year. Maybe then some of the dilemmas from this whole thing and some of the anomalies from this whole thing will be rectified. In any case, we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52448	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished counterpart Kreso Filipovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52449	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development adopted by this House 10 months ago or more precisely on 3 July 2009. Of course, it should also be said that, in the meantime, in the first half of December 2009, one amendment and addition of this law were already passed. At the beginning of this debate, I would like to say that we from the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, as we did in particular in July of last year when we passed a completely new law, i.e. basic law, but also in December when its first amendments and additions were made. For the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, as was the case with the first amendments and additions, the fact that it does not foresee any significant changes that would lead to further adaptation of our system of support to the EU rather than several amendments and additions which, I would say, are primarily trying to adapt to the current and still difficult economic situation in our society. Therefore, the basic objective of one and the other amendments and additions can be taken into account in the attempt to mitigate the consequences of the current difficulties which could most easily be affected by small, mostly family, agricultural and fisheries economies and the more precise, clearer and quality of the provisions of the basic law itself. But about that a little bit later. Given the fact that I was just saying that it is not about some fundamental changes and additions to the legislation that means further reform and adaptation to the EU support system, and given that the reform of the RS support system did not start yesterday, I think it takes a number of years to say a few sentences about the development of the RS support system. Namely, the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Fisheries and Forestry, which preceded the Agriculture Act, was passed in 2002. These laws were then a significant shift in the agricultural policy of the Republic of Croatia and, not long thereafter, the established system of support which was practically applied by the middle of last year was significantly more transparent and financially substantial year by year compared to all previous systems. From that moment of support, they are indeed becoming one of the key mechanisms of agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia, since the position already taken at the time is that it is necessary to fully separate these commercial support, means those which are intended to increase the production and structure of the economy from those non-commercial and non-income support intended for those non-income agricultural economies. At the same time, the assumption was also created for the start of structural reforms of Croatia's agriculture through the model of capital support, and for support for rural development that was eventually improved both in quantitative and qualitative terms. In particular, we would like to highlight here in 2004 when operational programmes for the development of bovine production and operational programmes for the rise of multi-annual plantations were adopted. I think my colleague Mile said something about the fact that in the process of these operational programmes in recent years, significant results have been achieved when it comes to Croatian agriculture. So, this approach in recent years, when much more money went into the equipment and technical technological improvement of production, and through operational programmes to increase the volume of agricultural production, certainly contributed significantly to the structural reforms of Croatian agriculture, thus raising the overall competitiveness of Croatian farmers. Therefore, this clearly explains that the position of the Croatian Democratic Community, unlike some colleagues, is that, in recent years, the overall system of support that has functioned has nevertheless obtained significant results in Croatia's agriculture and on the scale of production, as well as on the quality structure of agricultural economies. We consider it a particularly prominent problem when it comes to the agricultural support policy with which the Republic of Croatia has faced all the countries of the former accession to the European Union, which relate to the one divide in which they were in the Union's accession. In particular, while the European Union has a major problem with the surplus in agricultural production, it aims through the reform of the system to reduce production and production support for the introduction of a single economy payment scheme while at the same time preserving the sustainability of agricultural production and achieving the highest standards in terms of product quality, the welfare of life, human health and environmental protection. On the other hand, accessions mainly as we today have had problems with the deficit, and have therefore sought to increase their production, in order to reach the European Union level and thus secure significant better negotiating positions. In order to achieve this objective, the key support policy towards raising the level of production and strengthening the competitiveness of agricultural producers and towards the gradual adoption of European standards through legislative and institutional adaptation. It is the new Act on State Support and Agriculture and Rural Development, which we adopted last summer that represents a gradual adjustment of the national support system in the area of price and rural development market measures with the common political policy of the European Union. It also offers a transitional period for preparing our farmers for a competitive performance on the demanding European market. Therefore, the support policy governed by the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development is still at a certain pace with the support policy in the European Union, i.e. it recognises the compromise of full harmonisation and our current needs. Of course, the Law accepts certain standards without which direct payments will not be possible by entering the European Union, we are primarily referring to the obligation to meet multiple compliance, the establishment of an integrated administrative and control system and the establishment of a paying agency in agriculture. Finally, the amendments to the Law from the end of last year, as introduced in respect of the difficult economic and financial situation in the country, have raised the threshold for the calculation of bodulation from 36,000 kuna to 100 thousand kuna, and the intensity of support for the income of agricultural holdings from 12 thousand to 24 thousand kuna. So it went towards the protection of small farms whose income is already so modest and which in these difficult times are certainly the most vulnerable and vulnerable. When it comes to the proposed amendments and additions to the Law currently under discussion, the most important changes concern the increase in the amount of direct payments in the previous year above which family holding holdings are subject to registration in the register of income taxpayers. Therefore, a single threshold of 24,000 kuna is proposed to be applied by the current year 2010 as opposed to the currently prescribed thresholds of 12 thousand and 7200 kuna for 2010 and 2011. It is expected that this will contribute to the survival of small and very vulnerable agricultural economies mainly under conditions of the economic crisis. The second, but also important change, or better said addition of the Law, concerns the fisheries sector which is of paramount importance for the Republic of Croatia both from the economic aspect of joining the European Union. In fact, a few months ago, we adopted the Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market, which will develop a system of structural support intended for the fisheries sector as the only possible form of support for this sector after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Act on State support for agriculture and rural development under the transitional and final provisions has been put out of force until then, except for the part relating to the fishing incentive, which means that fishing incentives are currently used in accordance with the provisions of the Law, which has been put out of force in its largest part. Given that this situation is in a certain way confusing, it is proposed to define more clearly the fate of the production incentives intended for the fisheries sector, and in the context of the applicable law, noting that it will remain in force until the entry into full membership of the European Union. Furthermore, the proposed provisions supplementing the law took into account that the financial discipline provisions are similar to those applicable to other direct payments in agriculture also apply to production incentives in fisheries. In this context, it is specified more precisely that the means of production incentives in fisheries should also be brought into line with the total appropriations available for those purposes. The proposed law provides for a number of amendments that are purely technical and relate to the possibility of the allocation of funds collected by modulation to all types of state aid to agriculture. A clearer way of calculating the right to direct payments is laid down and the conditions for the exercise of the right to direct payments in organic production are finally harmonised with the organic production law of agricultural and food products. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the proposed Amendments and the addition of the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, primarily for the reason that it, in part, respecting the difficult economic situation, seeks to contribute to the most vulnerable groups of family farms and the fisheries sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52450	Thank you very much. Next up, there's a club debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative Zdravko Kelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52451	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So here's the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Fisheries put one item on the agenda that we discussed a few months ago, of course this is about certain amendments and additions to the law. In fact, it was already seen in the proposal of the ministry, which was put in place from 12,000 kunas, of which all those who have greater support must go into the VAT system, would ultimately not be good for agricultural production, and ultimately there would be certain disturbances. Why do I say that? I say for the simple reason that we in Croatia have already said that this is acceptable and that this is not good in the end and that this limit should be lifted up to at least 24 thousand kuna. Is between 12 and 24 thousand kuna is several tens of thousands of family economies. Thus, it is not a few of them but several tens of thousands of economies that would certainly be questionable in further production. Simply looking at how much money is available in that part, we can see that someone with 12.5 thousand kuna if they are to achieve support must enter the VAT system simply cannot be competitive tomorrow and can not simply be found by today's tax system can not be found in one serious production. I speak exclusively for those, and those are the ones who do the most warfare today. This would certainly mean a fall in our production, which would mean that a large number of family economies would come into an extremely difficult situation. Of course, the question is further functioning. This would mean certain disorders and deepening of such a severe crisis for the country itself and, of course, it would ultimately mean new non-employments, or certainly new people who would appear at the Employment Office. When we look at the structure in agriculture, then we can certainly see that most of the small family economies, too, and we call this a small family economy, and the realisation of support or incentives for small family economies, are much larger than the large ones, but they receive much less support. Or by looking at several percent of the large recipients, more than 50% of the support they are given in agriculture at all, then the impression is that in Croatia the problem is a small producer. It's not a small manufacturer's problem. I'm not gonna say the problem is a big manufacturer. But it's certainly a problem that we have to keep our jobs, that we need to train people who will be able to live from their work tomorrow and live qualityly from their work. That is easy to say and easy to say, but of course, there is a question of how to do it when, especially today, in Slavonia, we do not have any slaughterhouses. If you look at the processing industry, it's gone. And then a man asks the question of production there is, what is it, maybe it's not what he wants it to be, but we're going in the direction of making it as good as possible, to be competitive and tomorrow when we join the European Union. And then the question arises, can we, with such production, place our goods or our product? Of course we come to an extremely difficult situation and only one Slavonia has no slaughterhouse, no dairy, no processing industry, man asks who to sell his product to. And if this negative image of our imports is still attached, then certainly every one of us can say about our production is not good. What is also important to us, and that is to try to take advantage of these two years until we enter the European Union and try to form our family economies in a way that they can survive tomorrow. It's clear to us in the HSS that not everyone can survive it's a fact and we can't get away from it. But let's try to keep as many as possible. Because the story that's been going on for a long time that's been in our villages, here's what I'm going to say. There can be 4.5 family economies for the rest of us. It's not a story that drinks water, it's a story that suits someone. A story that only corresponds to those who would like to reach the largest surface of the country and who can come into a position that with large surfaces can also make a huge profit. That's not good. And the question is, what are we going to do with those who live here, what are we going to live on? Which is just hard to find an answer to that question. I also believe that this initiative that came from our side as this limit rises to 24 kunas will only in one part help one good number of family economies to survive clean on one economic and market scene and try to prepare through these two years for that real match that is ahead of us. As for the land itself which was also here, here I will not talk about it much, but I must say for sure that certain individuals, in the competitions, came in a position to get a part of the state agricultural land, whether concession, lease or even through purchase are certainly in a much better position than those who today and take a large amount of land to rent from natural persons. That's what a big difference is, the difference is that the predecessor said 250 grand if it's a one-hectare lease and if it's one thousand 500 kuna, it's certainly not the same, it's in a much better position than the one that gives 250 kuna, but the one that gives a thousand 500 kuna. Because if he has a hectare per hectare in that difference, he doesn't need anything more if, of course, he handles a lot of land. And there's a lot of them. And we have one of these today, especially in Slavonia, where there are large areas where individuals or subjects have certain surfaces. From these surfaces they can make a very good living. And today, they're comfortable with the situation where there's an elemental accident every year to be declared, that you don't have to make that reference contribution that needs to be shown, and that way they can achieve support and incentives. In that direction we should go and try all those who want to function in this way to prevent them anyway, and at the same time try to say motivate those who don't want to today, they want to, but they simply have no other choice but to live on the land of life and on their work. So far, a thesis has also been withdrawn, and people have to deal exclusively with agriculture if they want to. However, if we look at the situation today and within the European Union, if we look at what agriculture is, some countries have gone from year to year that this family economy must increase and it has increased. And when it came to one limit, then they said wait, whether it's good or not, and it turns out it's not good. Today we have a well mixed system where you have people living in the country, maybe in a retail chain, there's a salary of 2 and a half thousand kuna, and at home there's a certain property where a wife deals, whether the children are on their own time and that's his extra income. That's what's very important for these little ones, because today there's a big part of us who are family economies in this part of the world. We can say that this is not the future of Croatia, that it is the future for people to go into one more serious production. But this is a social component that we especially need to talk about today when the difficult economic and social picture is with us and in Croatia and around the world. It is therefore very important that we can overcome this difficult crisis and this way that we are talking about here today. As far as fishing is concerned, of course we support in Croatia a peasant party to remain the model that has been in existence for two more years, as it has proved that the change of this model would certainly lead the fish producers to an extremely difficult situation. If we look at that covered over three and a half thousand different entities, then we can see that there is certainly one serious topic and certainly what is important to us is that exports are much larger than imports. And that is what gives us the right to believe that by entering the European Union our fishermen will be more ready, more ready than they are today and that they will have a safe space one from which they will be able to draw their energy and, of course, to draw one extra profit and to live on this work. At the end of all this, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party welcomes once again what our club's initiative has been included and today has come on the agenda. Therefore, we will also support this proposal to amend and supplement this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52452	Thank you, colleagues, Kelly. It's on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52453	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We do not often discuss agriculture in the Croatian Parliament, and therefore this is an opportunity to say something more widely about the situation in Croatian agriculture, something broader than the amendments and additions to this Law on State aid and rural development. In fact, there is one vain I would say the need for us in Parliament to discuss what the situation is today in agriculture and how we are prepared for a new system of agricultural support and support for rural development when we will have to implement European legislation in a very short period of time, i.e. so on. the common agricultural policy applied by the Member States of the European Union and which have passed different stages of support for their national farms. They crossed something that we had in one part, so maybe they left a little bit, so they took a step back. So they went through that phase when production increased and everything was focused on increasing production, so when they reached that level they went to quality, that is, structure. So when they had too much production and good quality and good structure, then they directed most of the funds into rural development, that is, maintaining these rural areas and retaining the population in these areas. And now in two years, we'd have to do all that. So, and increase production that is missing and change structure, increase quality, competitiveness and enable in fact our rural areas and for life then and for one good agricultural production. When assessing what we have done over the past period, it can be said that we have not made the necessary shifts in the restructuring of agricultural production despite the constant increase in budgetary resources for these purposes. If we look at our agricultural part of the budget only over a period of 10 years, we'll see that the funds have increased year by year. Unfortunately, they were most often a substitute for high production prices. The inputs in agricultural production grew far faster. They had these jumps far higher than the prices of agricultural products already in the longer term or at the same level, and they are often in decline. At least the most priced by the farmer. When a new aid law was adopted in 2002, with the promotion of production that we are today talking about as direct or direct incentives and support for income and capital investment and support for rural development as the beginning of rural development, it has meant some progress and we have on several occasions here in Parliament and said it. However, too long has remained that our primary incentive to produce is. The time wasted can hardly be compensated and there really is real concern about what problems we will face with part of the farmers in 2011 when we will have to apply the new system of support in agriculture, or when we will become a member of the European Union. Croatia's agriculture has not recovered from the transition shock, privatisation of large agricultural combinations, which have also been linked to the farm economy at the time, but also to the transition to the market economy. I often say here that agriculture in no country is missed by pure market legality. So it is also seen that every country encourages its national agricultural economy and treats it as a strategic one. It was once said that food, that food must have the same protection as that of a country. The aim of each agricultural production is to ensure the quality and security of the supply of its own population, and only when you have it then you go to export if you are competitive, but it is very important or must not be forgotten that those who deal with such production should also ensure the stability of income, and then this is the measure when I say that agriculture should not be left behind or should not be left to clean market legality, that it is oscillating. Because she has other laws in production than she does, for example. Industry. It happens to us often that industry actually transfers part of the cost to farmers, doesn't buy agricultural products in the season, doesn't pay them off in some normal time frames, and in fact all the costs of supplies, the interest of storage are transferred to that primary producer. And here we are estimating at the club that we haven't actually achieved any of these two important goals yet. Croatia is a net importer and agricultural and food products despite our real production resources that should ensure domestic consumption. The increase in funding from the state support budget therefore did not result in a change in structure or in a level of production. I'll remind you here of only a few years for which the data has been published. For example, the share of support for agriculture in the state budget increased from 2% in 2005 to 3% in 2008. Now he's got a tendency to fall. But at the same time, with some objective reasons, such as natural disasters, we also recorded a decline in the volume of total agricultural production in those years. We don't even have visible shifts in competitiveness, security of income and sufficientness. Competitiveness is low for a number of reasons, here's just a few. We have a dry property that actually increases fixed costs, low technological equipment, an unfavourable age and educational structure of the manufacturer, a high price of reproductive material. And while at the same time state monopolies provide part of reproductive material such as mineral fertilisers, so-called mineral fertilisers. Blue diesel has a significant impact on the production prices of agricultural products, but there are also high taxes. A large part of the producers of agricultural producers are not in the value added tax system and this is, in fact, for those 22, or at the moment, 23% collects all the input material that they cannot refuse when selling their products. Competitiveness is also affected by developed economic infrastructure, primarily marketable but also communal in rural areas from accessibility to certain municipal facilities. The structure of production is unfavourable because grains dominate, we primarily have too high production of corn and wheat, which then means significant pressure on the country from the point of view of sales, but also from the point of view of prices that are too high to pay in an open economy such as the Croatian processing industry could pay such a price. We don't have efficient land mining projects that should mostly take over the state as a state-owned infrastructure investment where through the project... as a complex arrangement of space and space, but also land books as one of the major problems. Not to say that you should make adjustments in the education system and build an education structure. According to some data below 1% of employees in the OPGs have professional equipment lower than, therefore, there is not even 1% of them with high professional equipment. And when we talk about rural development, we've been talking about it more seriously for the last two, three years. Croatia is an extremely rural area. 92% of the territory, almost 50% of the population, and when it comes to development, it is said that balanced development has only 5% of rural areas or settlements, and only about 8% have been developed. Our advantages concern the preservation and fertility of land, quality water resources, coastal belts. So we also have significant advantages that unfortunately we do not use. And when it comes to amendments to a concrete law, then what are we really changing? Something that we thought was no longer necessary, and then it proved to be a huge shortage of producers, or if several tens of thousands of agricultural holdings could not benefit from support. So the most important thing is 4 or 5 things. They're returning direct fishing payments that will be able to exist for, say, two more years. The colleagues who spoke before me have already said that in this situation, if there are funds, it's a good thing. We will provide a more favourable situation for fishermen, but this is also the only part of the production, that is, part of agriculture and fisheries that provides or has surpluses between imports and exports. The use of funds collected by modulation in such a way that they can be used in the current year for direct payments while under the existing law it should go to support rural development. I've already said that as far as rural development is concerned, we have a very low absorption capacity of the OPG, and then here we can support that in some transitional period. A clearer definition is the final calculation of the right to pay direct payments and the deadlines for the calculation are established, this would be a technical matter. But it's not just a technical matter. The user of the support must know the exact time, i.e. he must have some deadlines and be able to plan when he has the right to such support. However, this fourth amendment also refers to the achievement of direct payments, or when it is necessary to go to the income tax system. We've changed that a few times already, personally I don't think it's good, we don't prepare people, there's going to be a moment when they're going to have to do this, then they're going to have a large number of support users that's going to fall out of that support system. It is also not good when under pressure promises are made, as was the case after the last protests of farmers, and here I want to warn because I have been asked by farmers joined in agricultural cooperatives that this last decision by the Government to grant funds for spring sowing only to those who have below 300 hectares of agricultural land, just those small producers who have joined in agricultural cooperatives, which have small areas, but have therefore joined together to be able to support them now because they are in the framework of cooperatives with more than 300 hectares, so-called farmers and agricultural areas and could not use this benefit as regards spring crops. And they also sent state secretaries to the Ministry one such request and I think it would be good and realistic to consider and include them in the users of this part of the spring seed fund. The SDP club will accept these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52454	Thank you very much. On behalf of and before the Club of Representatives of the National Minorities, distinguished colleague Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52455	Honorable Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Club will surely support these amendments and the addition of the State Support Act in agriculture because at the time of recession, economic downturns, the growth of unemployment who would not support changes that say they have a fundamental task of maintaining the stability of small family farms' business. What is a newspaper is, in fact, raising the rates for entering the income tax system and I wonder if it's good, whether it's a good service, or if it's just a delay in telling them the truth and waiting for a time when they'll enter the European Union and face all the problems previously spoken of by their colleague Zgrebec, because it might be better if we left them to enter the income tax system to finally get a pen, to start counting what is worth it, which is not worth it, or what is their productivity and how to get to the competitiveness to deal with the problems that the European Union has brought them. Because I have to say that all 10 years ago, we have invested huge resources in incentives, unfortunately we have not fully exploited what the European Union has done to raise both the quantity and the quality of agricultural products so that we can really say today that we will only encourage total income because we would really have the basis for doing so because that is exactly what the European Union has been doing, but we are always taking only the one final from the European Union, we do not combine the positions in which our agriculture is currently located. The best picture of where our agriculture is is when we track our imports that last year were $2.2 billion, that exports were only 1 billion and 300 million, or that our negative balance was almost $900 million. This tells us that Croatia still lacks self-sufficiency in many products, i.e. if it had self-sufficiency, there is no competitiveness that can be worn on the markets of the European Union. We're being followed by another problem all 10 years ago, which is that even though we've only had 20% of the land, so on. The social sector, which at some point is a state-owned business, we in these 10 years, I know that there are objective circumstances, starting normally from land-based books, we have managed to solve up to today depending on the county to the county, somewhere between 30 and 40% of what I sell by concession. Most of this land is given to us on a one-year lease with certificates, which, unfortunately, can neither be registered to the land of the owners today, because right now in the booklet of all land particles by users, Arcot simply does not accept such elements, or that the confirmation with one year of use can be entered into the family economy so that incentives can be used on the basis of it. Likewise, we can't even talk about the serious education of our farmers, which is how we haven't tried to solve all these 10 years. I don't think winter seminars are enough, but that we should be more serious about education. In this law, we are talking about certain incentives related to organic production where there is no longer sufficient confirmation that someone is organic, but that someone will have to have a certificate. The certificate behind which the profession can stand, behind which is an analyst that is indeed an organic product. On the one hand, however, although we have achieved about 1.5% of these surfaces somewhere, roughly around 15,000 hectares that include both self-integration and, together with confirmation, I fear that although we all say that the future of this production is large, I fear that this production will be very difficult to place on the market because it is far, far more expensive than European production. I recently read a survey where 70% of tourists opted for organically produced food, and 20% to 30% higher. But our conventional production is more expensive 20, 30%, which means that organic production is far above that, or prices must be above that, because production is normally smaller, production is complex and requires more knowledge, but requires far more work, because there is no use of pesticides, because there is no use of mineral fertilisers etc. Which means we'll fall back to the competitiveness test and we won't be able to deal with that kind of production. We also cannot speak today that we have succeeded in resolving market infrastructure. And what little cooperatives we've created we've seen that with a slight move that now happened when we said big over 300 acres, they can no longer apply to certain incentives, and just some cooperatives and some larger companies have re-engaged to solve the market for small producers for these small economies. And what it's going to look like I think we'll see best in two months when we harvest, when the big ones already announced they have enough of their own production and that because of the detimulation measures they're taking, they just don't want to deal with small producers. So we're going to have to have tractors on the streets again, but certainly big headaches first and foremost, the Ministry of Agriculture. I also support the extension of direct incentives, i.e. per kilogram in fisheries, because maybe fishing is the one that suffered the most damage, because when we started to privatise we first started privatising only the building. We didn't want to talk about the concession either, nor did we want to solve the question of area under the ponds is it better to say the land where the ponds were until the last procedure when we finally defined that these areas were going to the concession and when we finally solved it. And indeed these ponds deserve to be encouraged by a kilo to return production to the '90s. when we exported 70% of the fish, when we had a safe market. And following that we still have grain production today at the highest level since it is the easiest to produce it, and the incentives are relatively high. So we have enough food and therefore we need to give fishing a chance to take this time to join the European Union to return to the old branches. But one little warning. I've been warned from the field that within certain ponds, a car to resell fish and withdraw each of them encourages, so please the ministry to make sure that in a year, two of us would not have a nice affair this time not to withdraw because of the country's reselling within the family, but because of the reselling of fish within certain fish farms. I was talking about organic production, so let's support that segment. I think the ministry will have a lot of problems here, because I said she's expensive, the certificate will be very difficult. Perhaps there is a need for parallel investment in knowledge and sustainable development where there is a possibility of both pesticides and high technologies. But quality controlled pesticides, selective ones that can deliver good results without major negative effects on agriculture. And therefore, both have a chance to produce in Croatia but I say without this segment of impact on productivity itself. It would be good to compare how many hours a European wheat producer needs to produce a ton or how much it takes in Croatia, how much work is being spent and we would immediately see that we still need to work hard on the application of knowledge, on technologies because it is not enough just to buy a large tractor and thus be sure that we will produce, but I think that indeed agriculture lacks knowledge. I say we will support these changes although I think they are just as palitative, that they are not enough, because we are certainly talking more seriously about the agriculture strategy at this time, and someone has already mentioned the rural development strategy today. It is through these two strategies that we could give a better vision of the village, a vision of agriculture, and thus provide income for our farmers. So here we support all the changes, but we expect more engagements from the Ministry of Agriculture itself to save by the time we enter the European Union and do what can be done as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52456	Thank you, colleague Chuhnil. And the last application on behalf of the clubs. Club HDSSB colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52457	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. As history is taught, it could be said that it is the impression that every country is pushing and pushing the peasants to the point of silence. Considering that a peasant producing up to the grain to the treasure, when I say treasure in terms of the stock, he can always find himself a crust of bread and ensure the nutrition of himself and his family. In an independent free Croatian state, we expected to change all together. Our Slavonia, which is above all to say to the rural agricultural environment with the most family economies with the largest surfaces, which has endured the greatest burden of war, is free to say and which has contributed most to the Republic of Croatia for its independence and freedom, whose good share was occupied both in the east and west, so western Slavonia, Eastern Slavonia and Srijem and Branja, is experiencing black moments and not only related to these financial amounts of support, incentives, capital investments, etc. but what is worst is one depopulation trend with a complete extinction of the village which is clearly closely related to all of this. I can list to you what I know, which is in the County of the Ship-Posavina that some villages are no more and it is not near Slavonski Brod like the Black Stream in the municipality of Podkkallje and some others in the municipality of Okucani etc. Or villages where five, six old women or an old woman live. The outcome and future of such villages are known. Why is that? Why wouldn't the village also be a nice one, without saying the perfect place to live, for a man's life. Well, he's been from forever, and he's been in Turkish times when he's been an evil, a tenth, and I don't know what or a hack as they say on the left. Did we impose a hack bigger than the Turkish Empire? How do we treat our peasant and our village? How do we even imagine Croatia? With importers, $2 billion and $200 million. Five million loaded pigs are the need of Croatia and its tourism and, in general, the citizens of Croatia for food, the million Republic of Croatia produce. Four million are tied up. It was not even when we harvested pigs in Slavonia, let alone today at the time of the possibility of modern pig production. They don't know what a cow looks like in Klocoček. They think it's purple like the Milk chocolate, and in the country, 20 km from Slavonski Brod. So what have we been through and what are we doing? And then this penitently I would say law or correction law after these protests, after the grace of the periods that the government in the negotiations gives itself, so in negotiations with the peasants. So then the 2008 incentives pay off 2011. It is with the grace period, as it is said, on the deadline of the delay, we can do it Croatianly. Term of suspension for the removal of harrassors for seven months. 1.11. or 31.10. as fixed afterwards. Everything's on hold now. Everything with grace period. And so the farmer with the grace period slowly disappears. They say the lease of agricultural land and Mr. Kelic himself mentions those who have hundreds of hectares of land. Well, Mr. Kelic, your President of the Agricultural Chamber has been doing this for years, which you've installed for the President of the Agricultural Chamber. What are you talking about? Your member. Well, don't, at least keep your mouth shut about it. Renting state agricultural land 250 kn. I am proud of my President of the Medical Chamber, who is the primary Dr. Egidio Cepulic. But I don't know as the Agricultural Chamber covers all the institutions of the Office for the Land, the Olivery, the Wine Institute, the Enology, for I don't know what everything and then set it up like this. A person who for years therefore enjoys the welfare of this country in the form of incentives and the compensation of damages from the elemental accidents along with tarmuring regularly. Those who are Slavons know what a tarp is. So, renting state agricultural land 250 kn, renting private agricultural land 1500 kn. Indeed, a difference is important, and indeed those who rent agricultural land privately in the hope that it will contribute to agricultural production, that they themselves will do something, are true enthusiasts unlike those who have, who have leased state agricultural land. For 10 years, one of the same ministers, whether a Minister of Agriculture, was a Minister of Rural Now Development and still, according to Mrs. Chuhnil 30, 40% of the state agricultural land failed, managed to distribute, resolve and the rest failed. Ten years? So why does it take centuries for us to figure it out? So what kind of politics is that? Where's the strategy? It is not a strategy, but where is the vision and concept of agriculture even the Republic of Croatia? And now what's concrete is what's here, which is to increase the amount of receipts from direct payments in the previous year for which they are, etc. It is normal and it is clear that anyone who is well-intentioned and who wishes well for this farmer at least until the entry into the European Union will not refuse such a bill that enables him not to introduce a VAT system up to 24000 kn. But I wonder who brought it before this, these 12000 kn provisions for 2010 and 7200 kn for 2011. We always fix the laws of some! It's like we didn't know that a peasant wouldn't be able to do it, that I would say it financially. And now we've remembered it should still be 24,000. Correction, we go to juvie all the time from some law firm. Hut on repair, golf courses at the correctional, 24000 state support in agriculture at the correctional. So what's this? Are we even thinking? Is the government thinking? Do the ministers think? Because they're always fixing something. And believe me, as Mrs. Chuhnil said, she's whispering very loudly that soon because of this kind of thing, because of the failure to pay off the promised war until April 15th, the peasants, because as the major producers already said, have no need to buy out wheat, corn that, believe me, I'm not saying, I'm not promising because that's not the goal of any civil disobedience or disorder is not the goal of any of us here. But in a situation like this, it wouldn't be a surprise if there were another protest of peasants at a very, very soon. The harvest goes, the seed is to say in complications, so the price of Petrokemia's fertilizer, the artificial fertiliser, you know how it went up there. We can talk about organic production as much as we want. It is one and a half percent of the total agricultural production of the Republic of Croatia. It's about irrigation that we don't even talk about because it's also about the same rate and percentage as organic production. And here's where we brought our agriculture that we must indeed, I won't say to fear, from repeating protests of peasants who, I say, were brought to this place, to the edge of existence and that, because they can't pay for neither electricity nor water, nor to educate children with artificial fertilisers which they were promised in exchange for, or compensation for incentives. He can't bring in a hep one palette of fertilisers and say listen, these are for the war of electricity. Fisheries, as clearly as this part of agriculture, I also support. But there's something interesting about all this. He says that, as the Republic of Croatia has begun to establish a new system where co-financing in a particular process is linked through a European fisheries fund which the Republic of Croatia will be able to use on the day of its entry into the EU. It is necessary to maintain an existing incentive model in order not to question the survival of fishing subjects. Look, it means fishing incentives only on the day of entry into the EU. And when were we to tell ZERP to shut down? So could we say that ZERP will end the day we join the EU? But no! The dictatorship is a dictatorship, meeting some imaginary requirements is a fulfillment and we have met them, and here our fishermen will be able to withdraw or withdraw it from the European Fisheries Fund on the day of their entry into the EU. And it's like that all the time. This is what we keep saying that Croatia's entry into the EU should not be on its knees, but unfortunately it seems to be happening in all fields, so here in this fishing area. All in all, not to go further and not to waste time on speakers, HDSSB is clear as a kind of good intention that the legislators of this bill will accept this legislative proposal even though we are not satisfied, not at all satisfied with the overall situation in agriculture and the way agriculture is managed by the competent ministry and the ruling or people who have run the ministry so far. So here we go, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52458	Thank you. So sausage and oil are getting ready. Correction of the alleged representative Kelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52459	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's Mr. Boro Grubisic said your party member is the president of the Agricultural Chamber and you put him on it. We all know that's not true. The president of the Chamber of Agriculture is a member of the HSS, but we know how he was set up. And Mr Grubisic knows that as well. And Mr. Grubisic, I have the courage and strength to say here and to call if Mr. Griničić and anyone else should say, unlike you, whether your members are now party members, respected representatives who were next to you, had the courage to say in 2004, how much does Slavonia get, and how much does she get now? And now he gets twice as much as when they shut up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52460	You're not... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52461	... And this is that support and encouragement are reduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I ask you nicely, tell all of us how much has Osijek County reduced agricultural isolation from last year to this year? You'll know everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52462	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52463	It's not a correction, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52464	You can't replicate, it's in the heat of a fight. No, it's not a replica, there's no replica on the clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate, and we've exhausted the clubs. A distinguished colleague colleague, Nevenka Marinovic, appeared individually. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52465	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the main objective of the proposal for a Law amending the Law on State support for agriculture and rural development because of the fact that the consequences of the current economic crisis are also felt in the agriculture and fisheries sector is to enable small family holdings to have a longer transitional period for entering the income tax system, and to provide fishermen with a period within which they will exercise the right to incentives financed from the national budget until they enter the EU. It is important here to note that the Republic of Croatia has already begun to establish a new system where co-financing is linked to a certain percentage through the European Fisheries Fund, these structural support, which the Republic of Croatia will only be able to use on the day of its entry into the EU. But until then, it is necessary to maintain an existing model of incentives in order not to question the survival of fishing subjects. The main objective, therefore, of these fishing incentives up to the entry into full membership of the Republic of Croatia into the EU is to ensure the positioning of production at a satisfactory level during this pre-accession period. And these changes made by this law are going in that direction. The most important is that the funds collected by modulation in the previous production year are used to finance state support in the current year, but it also extends the possibility of the allocation of funds collected by modulation to all types of state aid in agriculture and rural development. The following change shall be prescribed by means of the accounting of the right to direct payments and the obligation to repay the amount paid in the event that more than the amount obtained by the final account is paid to the user, that is well regulated by the Article. 6th of this proposal. Furthermore, the amount of direct payments received in the previous year above which the holders of all family holdings are required to be entered in the Register of Obligors of Income Taxes at the Tax Administration, of course, in accordance with the rules on income tax. In view of the understanding of small farms affected by the current economic situation, it is proposed to enrol in the Register of Income Obligors for those economies that made 24 thousand kunas of direct payments in the previous year. I would just like to remind you that the number of economies that have achieved direct support for 2009 amounted to 104 thousand 072 families' economies, and the number of economies that have achieved income support for 2009 is 17 thousand and 508 economies. So we have an extremely large number of stimulating economies. Another innovation in this proposal that contributes to fishermen is to retain production incentives in fisheries and further in form and in the way they are defined earlier. There has been a certain misunderstanding through the adoption and entry into force of the Structural Assistance Act in this sector concerning co-financing of capital investments and projects, not promotion by kg or piece. Art. 2. The proposed changes are defined incentives through the model of incentivisation of fisheries production, i.e. precisely for which incentives are granted for this model. Here's a model for the promotion of fishing production, so the production incentive model also promotes conventional and ecological production. In conventional production of indigenous species of white fish, for example, brancin and submersibles per kilogram originate with 5.4 kuna per kilogram. The farming of seashells means mussels 0.8 kuna per kilogram, fish younger than 0.25 kuna per piece, and in the case of small blue fish, the incentives are 0.35 kuna per kilogram. In the case of organic production, these amounts are higher for brancin and pomegranate amounts to 7.02 kuna per kilogram, and in areas with difficult conditions they reach as much as 9.5 kuna per kilogram. In view of the problems identified in the implementation of the Law or the possibility of using State aid in order not to have been envisaged by their adoption, an amendment clearly defining this group is proposed, referring to the 4th group of frozen fish products incentivised with the precise products that you encourage. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has, by keeping the existing model of incentives, ensured a positioning of production at a satisfactory level during this pre-accession period. The government of the Republic of Croatia has invested a lot in this segment so far. It should be pointed out that many state measures to encourage and build a fleet have led with some imports of ships to provide sufficient strength in breweries, i.e. a fleet of larger ships for fishing for blue fish. In 2008 alone, the Ministry helped the fisheries sector with 100 million kuna, which through direct incentives through the price of blue diesel, in order to make Croatian fishermen competitive by entering the European Union co-financed ship insurance, registrations, etc. I welcome the application of the provisions of financial discipline in terms of the fixing of fisheries resources in the state budget as well as the reduction of unit amounts if the requirements exceed the means available for fishing incentives. Chapter 2 of these new articles of 52. up to 52d. regulate the fishing incentive model including application, administrative control, control on the ground and payment of funds. I would like to remind you that fishing is the traditional activity of our coast and island, that it is the source of existence for a large part of the coastal and island population and that the first cultivation of the dams and submersibles took place in Zadar at the end of the 1980s and the first tuna growing in the Mediterranean in 96th in Kali tuna farm near the island of Iž. The Kalska fishing fleet is the strongest in the Adriatic, and over 80% of the salt capacity is in the Zadar County area. In the area of Zadar County there are also 540 fishermen making craftsmen, and the catch in this county represents about 35% of the total catches in the Republic of Croatia. The most significant species in the catch are the shrubs and anchovies that are both the base for the processing industry and for tuna farming. Economic fishing and farming is carried out by about 60 companies or companies that have submitted financial reports for 2008 according to the FINA. Ten, of the 20 largest exporters for 2008, are companies from fishing activities in Zadar County, this speaks of the importance of this branch for our county but generally in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Fisheries accounts for 13% of exports in Zadar County and the processing and conservation of fish additional 14. So 27% of the export waste to fishing. Recently, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Marine Fisheries, the Previous Act on Structural Support in Fisheries, and this Law on Marine Fisheries regulates the management and protection of renewable biological resources of our sea, the way and conditions of fishing and farming, the monitoring of catches and breeding of the vessel tracking system, control and inspection. This law further enables responsible and sustainable exploitation of living wealth in an environmentally balanced and economically and socially justified way. The same quality legal framework should ensure not only the survival but also the development of island communities but also this segment. Here, precisely because of the fact that fishing is the traditional activity of our coast, the island, the source of existence for a large part of our population, I believe that the order provided by these regulations, of course with the control of implementation, and this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, with all the measures that have been made so far and which have been in the position of raising competitiveness, will make this sector more ready to join the European Union, therefore I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52466	Thank you very much, colleague. I believe that my colleague Bodakosh will not be very angry that I have confused the order of applications. Here's your turn, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52467	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. Here we have today again an amendment to the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development. When we look at this in nine months, ever since we passed this second Law, this is the second amendment, however, the characteristics of the amendments to the Law on State Support are always present from the first Law that was passed on 23. Seven. In 2002, the law on state support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry experienced the adoption of this new Act in 2009, 5 amendments and two government regulations. From all this, there was one government regulation or one amendment every year, and here it's already in nine months two, I don't know how we're going to proceed. I think all this is the result, however, that often times what should be accepted and says whether the opposition or someone or the profession is not accepted then very quickly be seen, as is said and here these 12 thousand are present to move on to 24 thousand, which is certainly positive and we are normally in previous discussions what counterpart Kelić was saying was that this was too small for tax obligations, so that as such we could enter the taxpayer. However, what is characteristic and what we often talk about here, but it is not thought about, it does not accept by the promoter that any such changes are made, some money is behind such changes, there are certain obligations. I'll give you one, say nine. 1. In 2009, a government regulation was adopted to transfer corn from 1250 kuna per hectare to 2250 for the 2008 breed. How much money is that? It's money no less than 300 million kuna. 300 million kunas for corn that has already been defended because we knew that 300 thousand hectares of defence corn, that it was collected, that it was stored, and now we have raised from a thousand 250 to 2,000 250. Normally, it was a regulation that was confirmed after the Parliament and normally that it was accepted and a commitment of 300 million kuna. Then she stretches. Here's what Boro said in 2008 that 205 million kuna will pay off in 2011. Well, if we hadn't accepted such a regulation and increased it so suddenly, I don't know. For which reasons it is known for which reasons the 2009 election year was the local elections, therefore it increased but also accepted commitments. Thus, all that is brought behind it is also a certain amount of money. What we've said to family economies for a longer transition period, I think we accept as such. But that also means that from VAT there will be no income tax what was expected. On the other hand, the fishing period is extended. Well, normally, we accept until we get to the European Union and from the European Fund. But the one thing that we're going through here that we've gone through, and on the Committee on Agriculture, we've gone over here, that's the question of modulation. The question of modulation is the same thing that we now say will no longer be modulation for rural development, and that is the basic rate of 7% in 2009 and 8% in 2010 respectively, plus an additional 4% rate for all those who cross 2 million 160 thousand, or this is for those 100 thousand. And it was in the past law that funds collected by modulation were used to finance rural development measures. What happens now? The funds collected by modulation for the previous production year will now be used to finance state aid in agriculture in the current year. Why now? Wasn't there before a degressive rate of 4% since 2005 the same law knows such a degressive rate when 300 million were applied 300 million would have received over 78 thousand kuna a year, that's 300 million funds. Did any of them pay and did Mr. Secretary of State come in and focus on rural development and all the things that bring it in? No, I don't. Now we've moved on to this part again and that's where we're going, what are we going to do with these funds now? In the first row, when we discuss who these funds are taken from, we know who they're being taken from. Is that modulation rate too high or not? It's the same other thing questionable. Because in the European Union, this additional rate for new members will be 3% and that will be 2012. But she's heading towards rural development. In Croatia we said that the introduction is here we said that this modulation is being introduced, we accepted it in the past law. But what did that modulation need? It should be aimed at improving competitiveness, improving the environment, landscapes, improving the quality of life in rural areas. Therefore, the development of the rural part, why is this development of the rural part needed? So precisely because we will be more than 370m euros in 2012 will be directed towards rural development by the European Union. In order to be able to accept this and within three years, a full amount is expected to be obtained from this rural development, then a strategy for rural development and programmes and a way to withdraw that money should be established. However, our modulation is not now going towards rural development, but this change will open up the possibility of these funds returning to direct payments, i.e. incentives. Now the question is whether it's just going to be in the incentives straight or it's going to be rural development, I don't know from this whole thing. However, the question arises, how much will these funds be raised since 2009, since 2010. What function is that going to be in extreme? Will that close those holes we promised as Deputy Prime Minister and now as Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor? Will it create new problems that are being announced? The problems are announced because 143,000 hectares of sown wheat, the buyer's announcement that he will not buy it. Are there any funds being prepared for the national reserves to gather that wheat? I don't know what's gonna happen, but probably about the wheat that's gonna be a big problem. Here's all of this when we look at this modulation, it's about the ones that got the most, it's supposed to be directed towards rural development, now it's directed to where. And now that you're looking, we accept these laws because there's a little bit of good, there's little that we don't know, but the fact is that every acceptance of the law's amendment to that is a certain amount of resources. I say there's already 300 million that we haven't pulled on behalf of these modulations, now on certain means. How many of these there will be no calculations and those who will pay for that modulation are in some way already immodulated, because they are those producers that have over 300 hectares. Therefore, those who can't get on the basis of those agreements in Djakov, we're sort of taking from those who were competitive are also the biggest producers, and we're trying to shut down social issues again with some of the things that should be directed towards the social and not to give production funds that can't be competitive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52468	Thank you very much. And the final application for an individual hearing, distinguished colleague Branko Boxti.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52469	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here, in order to preserve the stability of small family farms most affected by the economic crisis, it is necessary to enable business without having to register with income taxpayers. Also, the consequences of the current economic situation are also felt in the fisheries sector. In view of the problems facing this sector in adaptation to the acquis of the European Union, it is estimated that fishing incentives should be maintained in the present form until the entry into full membership of the European Union by the Republic of Croatia. The law regulates the following. Thus, the funds collected by modulation in the previous production year are used to finance state support in the current year. The proposed amendment extends the possibility of the allocation of funds collected through modulations to all types of state aid in agriculture and rural development. It is prescribed that the right to direct payments and the obligation to repay the overpaid amount obtained by the final accounting of the rights per user is accounted for. The amount of direct payments received in the previous year above which the holders of all family holdings are bound to be entered in the register of income taxpayers at the Tax Administration in accordance with the rules on income tax. In the current provisions of the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, this amount amounted to 12,000 kuna in 2010 and amounts to 7200 kuna in 2011. Due to the current economic situation most affected in the agriculture sector, a number of small family farms are proposed to enter into the income tax register of those family farms that made 24000 kunas of direct payments in the previous year. The production incentives in fisheries are retained in the emerging period, in form and in the way they are defined earlier. The basic law in the text of the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development does not provide for a sufficiently clear question of production incentives in fisheries that continue to be paid on the basis of the earlier law. Given that, meanwhile, a law regulating structural support in this sector has entered into force in order to avoid any difficulties in interpreting and implementing these amendments, it is unambiguous to determine how the model of fish production is implemented. It is important to note that structural support relates to co-financing of capital investments and projects, rather than incentives per kilogram or piece. Provisions relating to payments for organic production shall be harmonised with the provisions of the Organic Production and Agriculture and Food Act. I also think it is important to emphasise that the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Cobankovic announced the reform of the agricultural support system in Croatia in 2010, 2013 in order to raise Croatian competitiveness at the threshold of accession to the European Union. The reform of the support system is also one of the conditions for the completion of negotiations with the European Union in chapter 11 of Chapter 11 on agriculture and rural development this year. All customs barriers with the European Union are lifted in less than 22 months, so a system of direct payments will be significantly simplified from next year. In 2008, as many as 218 different support was provided, last year 37, in order to reduce production payments to 8 of the most sensitive sectors, namely milk, breast milk, cattle, tongs, tobacco, sugar beet, sheep, goats, olives and pigs. In addition to Slovenia, Croatia has chosen a regional model of support, which means that the total state space since 2011 will be treated by one region in which specificity in agricultural production will prevail through the national support reserve. Here, for all this I will support the passing of this law. And thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52470	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the reports. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Mr. Kraljičković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52471	Mr. Vice-President, honourable parliamentary MPs, honourable parliamentary representatives, I thank you for a very useful debate, above all, of those who have made observations about the overall situation in agriculture. But I believe that all remarks are very constructive, very well-intentioned. I also thank all those who have supported, and you have all done so during these amendments and additions to the law, that is, this law. What is also important to remind you that almost every other page written in Croatia in the field of legislation these years, adaptation to the European Union refers to the section of the Ministry of Agriculture of Fisheries Development. So, the big deal that's behind us and the big deal that's still ahead of us. So, as part of this job, we certainly have significant difficulties, which I believe are very well managed or overcome together, and that we will succeed in achieving the ultimate goal among others that we have set for ourselves, and that is to enter the European Union in 2012. And to do this job well we repeat that in our financial perspective for Croatia, the European Union has determined the money that we used to make when we calculated ourselves, we have calculated that it is significantly less. So in the full years of using the European Union's funds, they will be twice as high as today and will come to a total of nearly 6 billion kuna for the area of agriculture and rural development. And that is what we believe to be the contribution of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Croatian Government, but here I can tell all of you. When it comes to the documents made, which have been made, and here are mentioned Croatia has a strategy for rural development. The Croatian Government adopted a strategy in 2008, so if we can help the strategy is available, can be seen, given an insight into everyone and exists as a public document. The National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development, which will be drawn up by the end of 2010 and will be adopted by the Government. As for the results that are visible, which I will say objectively, which relate to agriculture, and must be the result of both the support in agriculture and the overall work in the area of agriculture. This is what I'm going to show you on the basis of some numbers that are natural, so they're not financial, they're not based on estimates, they're based on official sources. The used agricultural areas have increased by 10% in the last eight years, orchard area by 25%, vineyard area by 19%, apple-only area by 53%, olive grove area by 31%, olive oil production by 122% or twice is increased olive production. Milk production by more than a third. Also, capacity... They've increased almost now already at the level of sufficientness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we measure in indicators that are also often used as an increase in gross value of agricultural production, then it moves at 9%, of which livestock is 16%, and plant production is 5%. We can freely say, despite all the disasters that Croatian agriculture has suffered, and in only 10 years, among others, the natural disasters have been decided that their damage to agriculture was nearly 10 billion kuna. So plus, here are the others, we also hold a transition that also has the necessary consequences in agriculture and in the country also leaves its consequences. Despite all this, we hold that agriculture shows still very good toughness and very, as we say, still visible and recognizable and development and development. So here's to all of you for, for a reminder like this, and for all of us to be proud of where, amongst other things, we've moved and moved away or a special shift or we've made visible in agriculture safely in the wine sector, the olive industry. So today Croatian wines, Croatian olive oil are also achieved at the top of the world's most important evaluations. Well, our producers are also already present on world markets. And we can also talk among others about Croatian regional recognizable products, not only to point out here, cool, and prosciutto and cheeses of various kinds, it is all a contribution to agricultural policy measures and so to say safely and to the support of agriculture. What is important to remind all of us is that the structure is said here several times by Croatian agriculture very much similar to European agriculture. Last time I couldn't answer that, but the average EU agricultural property of 27 countries is 12 hectares, so it's double the size of Croatia. Not six times bigger, it's twice as big. And out of that, 70% are agricultural holdings up to 5 hectares. In Croatia, it's slightly above 6%. If we take only the old countries, meaning those 15 countries of the oldest and richest European countries, the average agricultural property is 21 hectares. So something 3.5 times the Croatian average. And they have more than 50% of the economies are less than 5 hectares. So, when we talk about European agriculture, then we have to talk about small property, family property, among other things, and then we also have to respect our measures and our agrarian policy because our desire and our goal and our mission is to bring ourselves together and bring the EU closer together. ... , and it is just giving an emphasis on this agriculture, on these agricultural producers, and so our law that is now in force, which we are now partially changing, is taking into account every hectare. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus far, cooperative work has become less important for smaller agricultural economies. So the role that cooperatives had before to unite, to work instead of these economies, to create the support of this hour, or now by this law, that role is thus no longer necessary and so important because of this job. Especially when we look at new conditions when every farmer is important, it is important for him to enlist in the register and in the ark and thus achieve rights tomorrow when he comes to the EU and become recognizable and become a support carrier and his own development, and all forms of organization will help him to become even more competitive or better. When there were words here among others about, I have now noted something, among other things the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is not in that chamber, it was elected under the law by all agricultural producers and they had the right to vote on the basis of that vote and by all parliaments they chose their president and their board of directors. So the bodies of the chamber were not affected by it, so the farmers themselves, so the maximum we say was democracy as in parliamentary elections. On the other hand, I think it's familiar to everyone and clear to everyone. The elections were public and were nowhere to be hidden or hidden. As regards, among other things, the price of corn in 2008 then we know that there was a drop in price and income so that it was trying to help producers to mitigate this fall in income and to prepare a new aid law which was adopted next year and that the support from next year 2250 kuna was the maximum amount of aid. Modulation, when it comes to it, is practically now prescribed in our law by the EU regulation so that we can say that in that part we have 100% taken over their legal gain. When it comes to funds and about this amendment of the law, then we must link it to the measures of the IPARD programme where the funds for rural development this year are about a billion kuna, and we believe that this is also a very significant step in this year and the years ahead. And helping farmers precisely in these structural changes in development, i.e. to increase their competitiveness. I believe that, and this clarification here will help the picture of agriculture to be even closer to all of us, more accessible and more challenging to all of us for further cooperation and help in the development of agriculture and legislation in the area of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52472	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52473	We move on to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development, the emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 530. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and by the Committee on Law. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article. 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 125 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52474	We move to the 9th item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation (2003), emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 531. You received the proposal by mail. When setting the agenda, we accepted the proposal proposed that this law be discussed in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments could be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The report from the board meeting you received. The proposal does not express the desire to report intro and does not see the need for an introductory explanation. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. If they don't, and they don't want me to, then I'm opening a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished colleague Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52475	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Respecting the very good relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany, and, above all, esteeming the very important role played by the Federal Republic of Germany in our fight for independence and international recognition, and considerable technical and professional assistance in the implementation of our post-war recovery and reconstruction and economic, market and legal reform, we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community support the signing of this contract between the two Governments. We are all familiar with the assistance of the Federal Republic of Germany, we will still need help and we must respect and support our bilateral relations in all areas of life and work. But it is also clear to us that Germany is a highly legally regulated country, that the cradle of European legislation is highly esteemed and applies accepted and agreed legal norms and legal regulations. In that spirit, any double legal work and legal act must be precise and professionally defined, drawn up and enforceable for mutual benefit rather than for someone else's harm. As a result, a number of inter-state working bodies of the delegation's delegation's delegation's delegations had to do a great job on all technical, legal, formal and institutional negotiating standards from both governments until their signature in 2003. The job is now completed and before us in the Croatian Parliament is the final act in the process that is the confirmation of the contract in question. In its recent history of independence to date, Croatia has concluded a large number of bilateral international agreements and agreements with the Federal Republic of Germany and none have been harmful to the Republic of Croatia. Croatia, on the contrary, these international acts have made significant financial resources available under subsidized interest and very favourable conditions that could not be obtained anywhere in the world at that time. Furthermore, since 2000 alone, Germany has granted us over 4m euros of grants, i.e. gifts. That is why we believe in the HDZ Club that this Treaty will be useful and that the realisation of the project financed by them will contribute to the realisation of another of our strategic objectives and to achieving European standards in the water economy. With this Treaty, the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany approves the Government of the Republic of Croatia or other borrowers whom governments together choose to borrow up to 18m euros for a water supply and waste water supply project in the Republic of Croatia, phase 3. The use of loan funds will be determined by a special contract to be concluded by the Credit Bank for Reconstruction and Development in Frankfurt in Maine or the Government or by another selected borrower. In view of the established rules for the confirmation of international contracts, which the state expresses its willingness to be bound by already signed contracts and that amendments and amendments to the text can not be made at this stage and we at the HDZ Representatives' Club trust in state institutions which have so far carried out the existing phases of the procedure, and we propose that this Act be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52476	Thank you very much, dear colleague. And on behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52477	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As we know, Germany is one of the most developed countries in the world, and one of the founding members of the European Union. She is a member of the United Nations, NATO Alliance, groups G8 and G4. It is the largest European country in the population and has the strongest European economy. These are just some of the facts relating to the Republic of Germany and it is also important to note that the Republic of Germany played a significant and important role in many important times for our country. First of all, I am thinking of a newer history when Germany gave its strong influence and political power a very strong foundation in the moments of our country's creation, and, in financial, professional and technical engagement, it has continued to give strong support to the development of the Republic of Croatia's economy. With technical and financial assistance from Germany and in a material way demonstrates the willingness to continuously support Croatia on its path towards the European Union. The financial co-operation agreements concluded between the two countries constitute the legal basis for financial cooperation, and according to information that can be read on the German Embassy's 2000 website, Germany has provided about 4.5m euros of grants as part of its financial cooperation, and has provided credits with favourable interest totalling 265m euros, water supply and waste water supply, to boost energy efficiency and renewable energy sources for the energy climate protection project and to build Zadar port. In addition to financial cooperation under German-Croatian technical cooperation, the German Government has made available to date a total of €67.5 million for projects such as economic and employment promotion, promotion of the economy and employment in the food industry, construction of the catastrian system, reform of the vocational education system, integrated coastal management and the Fund for Studies and Professional Staff. This Law confirms the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation signed on 17 February 2010, which was previously approved by the delegations of the two countries precisely established and agreed. The December 2003 minutes on working meetings between the representatives of the Ministry of the United States found that economic reform, the construction of the market economy in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, and the restructuring of tourism and supply of drinking water, water management and wastewater management represent the main areas of bilateral economic cooperation. As this project fits into the priority area of economic cooperation between the Federal Republic of Germany and Croatia, and the established strategic definition of the Republic of Croatia which is fundamentally defined as preserving water quality, preventing pollution, wastewater disposal, and ensuring stable water supply, the loan under consideration will contribute to the achievement of the mentioned quality and achievement of European standards in the field of public water supply. The law also confirms the agreement between the two governments on financial co-operation and formally shows the consent of the Republic of Croatia to be bound by a loan financial co-operation agreement of 18m euros with a reduced interest rate, and will finance the third phase of the water supply and waste water supply projects in the Republic of Croatia. The first two phases of this project were financed by earlier appropriations, and by the Stability Pact and the German budgets. This loan, which is confirmed by this Treaty, will make it available to the Republic of Croatia to achieve European standards in public water supply and disposal and waste water treatment, which is also one of the Croatian strategic priorities. I believe that we are all unique in this position in this Croatian Parliament and that representatives of the Croatian Parliament will recognise the advantages of this treaty and unanimously raise their hands for this law, which deepens the cooperation between our country and the Federal Republic of Germany, and the funds provided will be spent in previously defined priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52478	Thank you very much. There are no new applications for the hearing. The applicant therefore has no need to explain anything in particular. I'm closing the debate. And I conclude with that the 9th point of the agenda. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52479	We move on to the final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Germany and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation, 2003, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 531, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation in 2003. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 112 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52480	We move to the 10th item of the agenda, - Final proposal of the Law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Czech Republic on mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 532 You received the proposal by mail. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed by an urgent procedure. Under the Rules of Procedure, amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Reports from the board meeting you received. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary Tatjana Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52481	Mr. Vice President. This law therefore confirms the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the mutual protection of classified data in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Czech Republic signed a treaty on mutual protection of classification data on 1 February 2010. That contract creates a legal framework and establishes rules for the mutual protection of classified data in the relations of the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic which will relate to all future classified agreements and cooperation contracts which contain or include classified data. The Treaty lays down legal frameworks for the protection of classified data common to be created or exchanged between the Contracting Parties, lays down identical degrees of secrecy, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract, the mechanisms for the transfer of classified data, as well as the treatment of classified data are contained specific provisions on classified contracts, the arrangements for making visits, the procedures for the implementation of security as well as the issue of the costs incurred in the implementation of this Treaty. The implementation of the new law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts which both the state formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, the text of the international contract cannot be changed or supplemented, we propose to this House that this bill be discussed and accepted by the urgent procedure by uniting first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52482	I thank the secretary of state. Is there anyone on behalf of the clubs? No, I don't. On behalf of the board, I wanted to say I'm sorry. In the name of the clubs is the application here. First of all, colleague Emil Tomljanović, and then there's your application. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here I would like to point out in the introduction that the HDZ Representatives' Club supports the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Mutual Protection of Classified Data. The contract in question regulates or lays down basic assumptions to ensure the protection of classified data that are common to or exchange between the Contracting Parties. In addition, the same degree of secrecy is firstly established, and the obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data are also determined by the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract in question, and the transmission mechanisms of classified data are developed, and the treatment of classified data are developed. It should also be pointed out that provisions on classified contracts have been developed, hence the way in which visits and meetings of experts are achieved, and the conduct in the event of injury, security and the issue of costs incurred by the implementation of this contract. Furthermore, I think it is very important to emphasise in terms of the possibility of signing such an international document, that the Republic of Croatia has developed an entire project in terms of the adoption of laws and sublaws which are governed in a unique and comprehensive way by the area of information security. First of all, I am referring to the Data Secrecy Act, but also to the Information Security Act, and to the Security Checks Act. It is certainly necessary to mention here the regulation on information security measures. The adoption of this normative framework, i.e. those regulations, created not only the legal basis, but also the establishment of professional standards for full data classification, both internally and internationally. In a given sense, too, this legal proposal, which the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club absolutely supports, should be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52484	Thank you very much. And now a distinguished colleague of Danica Hursa's on behalf of the Croatian People's Party's Club of Representatives. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52485	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This bill confirms the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the mutual protection of classified data signed in Prague on 1 February of this year. The Treaty provided for a legal framework and a significant mechanism for the achievement of information security protection and for the protection of classified data exchanged between the two countries. The contract also lays down identical degrees of secrecy, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract, the mechanisms for the transmission of classified data, as well as the handling of them shall be laid down. The contract contains specific provisions on classified contracts. The Treaty further regulates the way in which visits and meetings of experts are made. The contract further regulates the conduct of security violations as well as the issue of the costs incurred in the implementation of the contract. In view of the interest of the Republic of Croatia to conclude its internal legal procedure as soon as possible in order to create assumptions that the contract, in accordance with its provisions in relations between the two states, comes into force, we at the HNS Club are supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52486	Thank you, colleague. We've exhausted the club applications. We have one individual application for discussion. Dear colleague Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52487	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Based on the National Plan for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2008 during 2007 and 2008, a series of legal and sub-legislative regulations have been adopted that regulates the area of information security in a unique and comprehensive way, thus creating a basis for the introduction of professional standards for adequate regulation of the protection of classified data both internally and internationally. This need for an international exchange of information classified or marked according to national legislation by one established degree of secrecy stems from close foreign-political relations between states and an increased need for mutual and coordinated action to address modern security problems that often go beyond national frameworks with their complexity and comprehensiveness. The Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the mutual protection of classified data signed on 1 February 2010 in Prague established a legal basis for ensuring the protection of classified data produced or exchanged between the Contracting Parties whether this is a matter of determining the same, means degrees of secrecy, obligations concerning national measures for the protection of classified data or in determining the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract. Mechanisms for transmission and handling of classified data, arrangements for visits and meetings of experts, and handling in the event of a breach of security as well as at the end of the matter of costs incurred in the implementation of the contract. For this reason, and since the Croatian Parliament confirms contracts, which in fact demonstrates the formal consent of the Republic of Croatia to be bound by this treaty, I support the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the mutual protection of classified data.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52488	Thanks a lot, buddy. - Final Proposer? There's no need. This is what we've exhausted all the applications for the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52489	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the mutual protection of classified data, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. The number 532th Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Czech Republic in the mutual protection of classified data. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 125 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52490	As has already been announced today, we will conclude with point 12 and it is - The final draft law on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters and the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 536 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's P.Z. No. 536. You received the proposal by mail. When establishing the agenda, we have declared the urgency of the procedure. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by two committees, namely the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the report at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary Tatjana Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52491	Your Honor, Vice President. So, the basic agreement that was concluded in '96. in accordance with the conditions laid down in the prescribed agreement, the Contracting States have committed themselves to enforce criminal sentences brought by a court of a Contracting State against the nationals of another Contracting State or a person who has residence in its territory, which imposes the following criminal sanctions, a conditional sentence in which case the supervision of persons subject to a conditional sentence during the period of verification or sentence of prison or other measures is taken by the deprivement of liberty, security or educational measures. The basic conditions for the taking over of enforcement or supervision under the provisions of the agreement are the power of judgment, the nationality of the executing State or the residence in the executing State, the mutual punishment, the consent of the convicts, the consent of the State to the verdict and the State of enforcement, the remaining time of detention of the prison, the measures for the deprivation of liberty and a conditional sentence which cannot be less than six months. The reasons for the refusal, takeover and enforcement or supervision are contrary to the fundamental principles of the legal system of the executing state or international obligations of the executing State, the political, military or fiscal nature of the acts to which the judgment of law applies,... persons at the time of the criminal offence, the limitation of criminal sanctions, the principle of no bis and I am going, the verdicts made and absencia, the verdict passed by an extraordinary court, an asylum which a convicted person enjoys in the State of sentence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters adopted in 2004 amends certain provisions of the basic agreement and extends the territorial scope of the Agreement to the whole area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, creating conditions for the consistent application of the regime of mutual enforcement of the judicial decisions provided for in the agreement in the whole State area of both Contracting States. The Agreement and this Agreement shall apply provisionally from the date of signature. The Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina amending the Agreement on the mutual enforcement of judgments in criminal matters adopted in the second month of 2010 amends certain provisions of a basic agreement aimed at amending the objective of abandoning the consent of convicts as a condition for the taking over of a foreign sentence which has been imposed on prisons or measures deprived of liberty or a conditional sentence, thereby ensuring effective implementation of the procedure by taking over, and in order to ensure the enforcement of criminal sanctions imposed on convicts who, by fleeing to the state territory of their other nationality, wish to avoid their sentence imposed. The Agreement shall also apply provisionally from the date of its signature. On the occasion of the signing of this latter agreement, the Ministers of Justice of the Two States held a meeting on which the minutes were also drawn up, which, in the interests of clarity of the implementation of the agreement on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, took a unique position on the following terms: under the consent of the Minister for the transfer of enforcement or supervision within the meaning of Article 2(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2.St. item 4 of the Agreement as amended requires the recognition of the enforcement of a court decision by the requesting State. The additional consent of the requesting State shall not be required after the proceedings and the recognition of a foreign court decision have been carried out. Under parts of military, political and fiscal nature within the meaning of the provisions of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 3.St. 1st point 2 of the basic agreement shall be regarded as the standards set out in this category of work set out in the European conventions governing this area. Accordingly, the exceptions cannot relate to acts against the values protected by international law. As amended, the Agreement shall not deny the right of persons who, without consent, maintain a sentence in one of the Contracting States that, in accordance with the provisions of the basic agreement, on their own request, the penalties shall be maintained in the State of their nationality or residence. The same applies to persons who are in the decision-making process. This law confirms the basic agreement and the 2 agreements which make up certain amendments to the Agreement in order to make their provisions within the meaning of Article. 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was considered part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. And in that sense, we suggest that it be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52492	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the opening arguments and explanations. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished counterpart, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52493	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I must immediately say at the beginning that the SDP club will support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and BiH, so-called on mutual extradition, i.e. on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters. It is noted that the government of the Republic of Croatia still decided on 3 January 2003 to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of this agreement. It really didn't take us seven years to complete the contract and now he's just coming to our bench and we're discussing him today and I believe we'll be voting on him soon. In fact, I hope that this law is not the law that we will call lex Šimić and that it has been passed just because of that one case. Because for years we know that just using the actual abuse of the grace of dual citizenship that some people have done serious crimes both in Croatia and in BiH and other neighbouring countries, after being convicted, they would defile the execution and flee from the hands of the country and have found refuge in another country, many in Croatia, and many have fled from Croatia. Therefore, Croatia should not be hypocritical and then point the finger at Simic, and hide and cross many, many who have found refuge in Croatia. Among them are senior HDZ officials in BiH, including Jelavic, including Ivan Bender, many of whom are looking for local authorities. Some seek them because they have already been convicted, and some are sought because they are in motion, because criminal proceedings have been initiated, and because of very serious and serious acts. For war crimes, for classical crime, for murder, for fornication. Last year, a basketball coach escaped, sheltered in Croatia for raping a 14-year-old boy. Croatia must also find the answer for these, I know that this is not the subject of this contract now, we are only talking about the execution of the contract, i.e. the execution of judicial decisions and those who are powerful. And I'm going to say one more thing about it, namely we're all going to agree and there's one agreement there is, that nothing worse casts the mockery of the institution of a state as a decision that cannot be made. It is better that the procedure was never initiated than when such a decision cannot be carried out. In any of the things. It was in the administrative matter, in the offence, in the civil matter, especially in the criminal matter. It's the most embarrassing state, its institutions, and it's destroying people's trust in justice. It's just that these people are allowed to mock institutions, make fun of the state. And that's why it's good, maybe there's always going to be one case that's going to roll the whole situation around and try to solve these things. So here again, many are in BiH, not only this case most often talked about, but many others have fled, but many have also moved away. And it's no longer known if it's embarrassing the state that someone has escaped her, that has allowed her to escape, or that she suffers such criminals as honest citizens in the Republic of Croatia. And that's just, that's just one big problem that we have to solve. Other countries have it to a lesser extent. There is one general principle that no country extradites its citizens. We also remember our signature of the law on the accession of the permanent International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes where Croatia was among the first signatories of the permanent International Criminal Court. However, the criminal court judges only for specific crimes, i.e. war crimes. And it is a permanent institution, and there is not then this institute so that a country may be called upon if the country is signatories, and that court has begun its work because there have been enough countries of signatories, here I repeat, among which Croatia is also to call upon that fact that it does not extradite its citizens. However, in this other kind of classical crime, we are in a serious problem, and in this sense we are in more trouble than any other country, the most countries in this region, countries that have arisen from the collapse of the former Yugoslavia. Slovenia has smaller problems, it will not accept, as it does not flee to Slovenia, but often flees from Croatia to Serbia, Montenegro even less in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina is the largest haven but also vice versa from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the greatest extent escapes in Croatia to a lesser extent in Serbia. So there's a problem. It is not only that these people have dual citizenship between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is often combined with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Slovenian citizenship, as this does not happen to Slovenia. Because he treats that citizen at his border until he enters Slovenia as a foreigner, only when he enters its territory does he become a citizen if he has the nationality of that country and then that country is obliged to treat him as his own citizen. There's the biggest problem with the border, which doesn't have such a single orderly system with our criminal authorities that it could defuse a court ruling. Here's a chance, if someone's convicted, if it's already missed, we won't go into court proceedings why his passport hasn't been taken from him, if someone's leaving our country no matter what he has dual citizenship we treat him as our citizen. No matter what he shows his second passport there, he is our citizen and can be denied his exit from the country, it was never done, in any case, when they ran neither when they came. It's no longer an accident. It's not an accident, it's happening and why it's doing it, because it can happen. This is one first step to put an end to it. However, it is not enough just for the Ministry of Justice to do border services, customs services and must be networked. There's only the Justice Department can't do much. This is how these contracts work. The question is, therefore, when this issue is resolved, there is no doubt that it is not a matter of automation, but of a certain procedure, but that contract allows such a single procedure that the persons concerned are then subject to appropriate legal remedies and therefore have all the legal means at their disposal. However, this is certainly a question that we try to solve our biggest problem, we can't say we have this institute and we can't do anything about it now, but we have this problem that we have to solve and we can't be deaf, dumb and blind that the Croatian judiciary is looking for numerous suspects and already indictees for serious crimes, one has escaped us in Germany and every little report and mocks Croatia. And he's often seen in the visits of our statesmen when they go to Germany and he's always orbiting any political furniture and recently embarrassed himself in such a circle with our Prime Minister Kosor when she was in Germany. And they're after him, and he's been convicted by one court, and two other courts are suing him for economic crime. Of course, this will be easier to resolve when we enter the European Union, however, the problem of dual citizenship that many have abused has to be revealed from the very beginning that many people have received dual citizenship. Some of them got it by law, and it's all clean and the other thing is that they abused it. But I ask the question that I asked on the Committee, how someone was born in Serbia, has nothing to do with Croatian citizenship, and we now find out, never stayed but was later revealed, when he was staying, when he committed crimes and it is revealed before the Serbian judiciary, that they have Croatian citizenship, which is what they were in charge of Croatia when criminals received the Croatian passport, it is a disgrace first of all for us. How much of that passport was divided into Mostar and no one's ever answered for it. Yeah. Passports have been distributed to people against the law, and we see who these people are, we see through the means of information that this is often about drug criminals, organised crime, now being tried by such a criminal group in Belgrade. And we have to resolve it, we have to resolve these abuses of who is these people, who by law could by no means, by the present or by today's law, have been able to obtain Croatian citizenship. Here, the SDP Club supports the adoption of this bill aware that only the Ministry will not be able to make it an interdisciplinary matter in order to implement this Treaty first of all, we see that the minister has a serious will and he has promised it and remains with his promise but remains a major problem for those who find refuge, who find refuge, asylum from persecution for serious and serious crimes, we must finally put it on the wallpaper and that one institute that continues to exist with us absolutely relativated him in order to reach such criminals and discourage them in such activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52494	Thank you, colleague. We have one correction of the quote from colleague Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52495	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is not true that one HDZ official from Bosnia and Herzegovina is wanted in Croatia, it is an incorrect allegation. And the other thing about this is everything you've said I think it would be good to ask the former justice minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52496	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52497	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, the easiest thing to say is not true, and it is not true what he corrected me or distorted my exact quote. Therefore, he has done a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the provisions of Article 209 are, look at the internet at Ivan Bender, senior HDZ official Bosnia and Herzegovina, then it is. No, please. ... In Croatia there is also a former federal member of the defence ministry Ivan Hasimovic, General Ivan Meic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Look on the Internet, please, so you'll be clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52498	Let's not make this right, let's not use the business board like that. Everything that's written somewhere on the portals is easily available, anyone can read. We move on to the club debate, colleague of representative Ana Lovrin on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52499	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Law of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions on criminal matters brought by the court of a State Party against nationals of another Contracting State or against a person who has permanent residence in its territory. It will support for reasons because this now confirms and implements this agreement, which will already be possible to avoid exactly the situations which have been spoken about in polemic tones, whether they are true or not. If so, they will allow all those persons convicted in the area of one state to reach the hand of justice and cannot avoid the execution of judgments in another country. Both those who fled from Bosnia to Croatia and vice versa who fled from Croatia to Bosnia. As regards Bosnia and Herzegovina's relations in this part of the improvement of legal traffic and the principle that it was concluded because of the principle of justice of social rehabilitation of convicted persons, which was meant to be achieved to the greatest extent in order to enable the convicted person to maintain his sentence in the home state, but in time, this was due to certain provisions of this agreement, in a way that the person convicted could have just avoided the execution of the sanctions, because it needed its consent. Therefore, this agreement, which was first concluded in 1996 with Bosnia and Herzegovina, had not been in place for 7 years, but had already been amended in 2004 by the Minister Vesna Škara Ozbolt, when an important change, a small text but an important one, was introduced into this agreement, so it covered the change and the territory of Republika Srpska, so not only the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the whole area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And so far, here is the last amendment in 2010 when it was removed that obstacle for such convicted persons to truly be sanctioned against them, and that is the condition of their consent that is necessary. So, now with these amendments also textally small, but in substance it is extremely important to delete the provision that a convicted person's consent is required, in all articles where he was required. And the additional minutes signed with this last amendment of the agreement also define some of the provisions that have been interpreted disputed, which is precisely what is considered to be a consent to the transfer of execution or supervision and more importantly, therefore the exception is defined when enforcement or supervision will not be taken over. Therefore, if the act for which the enforcement of the sanctions is required is a judicial decision of a political, military or fiscal nature and then defines which standards apply, it shall be determined that standards laid down by European conventions governing this area are applied, and that therefore the same is not the case, it shall not apply to acts against the values of protected international law, which means that it does not apply to criminal offences for war crimes either. So here's why we feel that no one can avoid the hand of justice from avoiding the execution of criminal sanctions or supervision if it comes to parole, we will support the adoption of this law. I'd say there really is a problem with the abuse of dual citizenship. He's the most pronounced here with the neighbouring states. Everyone resists due to some known cases in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area. But as far as Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, here's the deal we have, we've had one of those, now we've got a good one because he's suffered these last changes. But let's say we have no agreement with Serbia for reasons that Serbia will simply not sign such an agreement. And as we know many people have dual citizenship between Serbia and Croatia and many people have moved to the territory of Croatia. Serbia as well as Croatia has a constitutional ban on the extradition of its own citizens. And therefore, those people in Serbia in the Montenegro area are quite calm and completely protected. But Croatia, by implementing the principle that criminal offences should be answered, should be prosecuted, tried, sought to co-operate between state attorneys in such a way that all the evidence that Croatia has to pursue in the areas of these countries is delivered to these citizens, as this is now the only possible way. As far as Croatia is concerned, Croatia has opened the possibility of not handing over its own citizens to the proposed constitutional changes we talked about yesterday. As far as the Institute does not extradite its own citizens, it is an institute that knows many European countries and many world states. It is common because the state protects its citizens not from responsible for crimes committed but rather to extradite them to some countries whose legal systems do not trust because of possible political implications or insufficient democracy or the development of legal systems in those countries. However, as far as Croatia is concerned, it will therefore enter a circle of countries with a European arrest warrant by entering Europe. So within the Member States of the European Union, and as far as other countries are concerned, these constitutional changes will open up the possibility of making mutual agreements on the extradition of citizens. Of course, these agreements will happen when the states assess that they can trust each other in their legal systems. Therefore, Croatia has done what needs to be done in this regard. But in some cases, he can't do what another state doesn't want. It would be no good if the state opened up the possibility and openly extradited its citizens without question without obtaining reciprocity from other countries. And as already elaborated here, this agreement sets out the conditions under which the review and enforcement of judgments on criminal cases will be carried out. So, not a prior, not unconditionally. Also exceptions when he won't take over. A procedure has been laid down, a time-limit for the entry into force of this Agreement. And here I would also support that provision in this agreement that it applies from the signing day. Therefore, that all these cases of avoidance of responsibility that the procedure could be taken immediately in relation to them, and that the agreement would actually take effect 30 days after the last signatorium informed that it had implemented the ratification procedure in accordance with national legislation. Here, once again, we support this agreement in order for everyone to be held accountable for the crimes committed and not be able to escape the sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52500	Thank you very much. The other clubs didn't sign up. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Arsen Bauk. There's no Arsen. Ivo Grbic. There's a fellow coat of arms. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52501	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to point out that I support the bill because it regulates the enforcement of judgments in criminal matters which are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would especially like to praise the proposals that resulted in the signing of the agreement when we know that negotiations on them have been held since 2004, that it was necessary to build relations of mutual respect and trust between the two countries, which is certainly not an easy job after all the war events. As strange as the name of the law itself sounds, it is pointed out that it is three agreements, and that the last agreement solves a mutual interest in regulating cooperation in the area of criminal policy between the two states in the enforcement of judgments in criminal matters for which the principle of universality has not produced the necessary results. Therefore, by eradicating the consent of the convicts as conditions for the execution of a criminal sentence, this agreement will remove the problems so far, will ensure effective implementation of the enforcement procedure, and all with a view to ensuring the enforcement of criminal sanctions imposed on convicts who, by fleeing to the state area of their other nationality, wish to avoid the detention of prison sentences. I think it's a good idea for the agreement to be applied from the signing day so that certain actions can begin as soon as possible. But it should also be pointed out that full application of the agreement will not be easy. On the basis of all of this, I support the adoption of the Law attesting the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters and the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning amendments to the Agreement on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52502	Thank you, dear colleague. This is what we've exhausted the individual hearings, and that's how I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We said we'd go to point 12. That's where we came in, and then we'll finish today's session. We'll continue tomorrow at 11.00 a.m. vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-29-0.u52503	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters and the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters. It was an emergency procedure P.Z. Number 536. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. And I am voting on this proposal for an agreement that I have read. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill was adopted unanimously by 123 votes.
