ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51915	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. There is a new draft law on humanitarian aid, which should, in fact, be better and better regulated and more precise to define humanitarian aid above all, then targeted groups and types of humanitarian aid, so it cannot be only temporary, but temporary, permanent, humanitarian actions and actually in line with the existing needs of society in collecting aid and providing humanitarian aid. A new concept is also introduced instead of the notion of "humanist organisation", which is a legal person who has obtained a solution for collecting and providing humanitarian aid, which is a significant humanitarian organisation is significantly broader than a legal person who will actually collect humanitarian aid, because, as you know, the humanitarian organisation deals with the general good, and the collection of humanitarian aid is only one part of the general good. Thereafter, organisations primarily involved in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid are profiled, and there is also a distinction of humanitarian aid to victims of natural disasters and crises caused by human activity that can be provided by the authorities of the state administration and competent according to specific regulations, and in fact we have humanitarian aid that is provided to people who are in need. It also continues here to decentralise the system in such a way that, under the current law of the organisation, those who collected humanitarian aid actually addressed the Ministry of Health and Social Care and received confirmation that they were freed from customs duties, they were granted customs relief and released from VAT. So here is another way of controlling and other way of solving and keeping the necessary records. The procedures relating to the collection and provision of humanitarian aid will be carried out by the Office of State Administration's social activities in the county responsible for the seat of the legal person and that office would also carry out inspection supervision of the implementation of this law, while the administrative supervision would remain in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Care Affairs. The Ministry would further keep records of legal persons for the territory of the Republic of Croatia while the competent offices would keep records of the solutions issued in the field of their jurisdiction. I must say that this law does not require any new financial costs, those officials of the state who did this application-related job at the Ministry, and the rest, were two civil servants, and therefore we believe that the administration of state administrations in the counties, which is 21, will not get much bigger jobs and should not employ new employees. I hope that this law actually gives Croatia another modern law on the collection of humanitarian aid in the territory of the Republic of Croatia because already humanitarian aid outside the Republic of Croatia, this Parliament has passed the Law and then we would actually round up that set of laws that we promised before joining the European Union, this is no obligation at all, but we think that it is better than to edit the existing Law, and that is why the Law goes into two readings. All that you think can be better or you have a better solution, we are open to all your remarks, we will respect them all. So, until the second reading, there's plenty of time, and hopefully we'll get more of your confirmation that this law is good, if it can be improved, we're at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51916	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51917	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. As a parent body, the Committee discussed this Law. The opening argument was given by the applicant representative and the debate pointed out that the adoption of this Act defines organisations primarily involved in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, various forms of humanitarian aid, and different target groups in line with the existing needs in the society in the field of collection and provision of humanitarian aid. Provisions on the organisation of humanitarian actions are further introduced and, instead of the notion of humanitarian organisations, the notion of legal persons who have obtained solutions for the collection and provision of humanitarian aid is introduced. The legislative proposal allows the collection and provision of humanitarian assistance to registered domestic and foreign non-profit legal persons, i.e. legal persons enrolled in the relevant register in the Republic of Croatia. Exceptional humanitarian aid provided to socially sensitive groups can also be collected and provided by natural persons and profitable legal persons in the form of the organisation of humanitarian actions if they priorly send notice to the county office of the state administration. The process of decentralisation in relation to the adoption of a solution that approves the collection and provision of humanitarian aid and which is issued by the competent office of the state administration in the county as well as the decentralisation of supervision. As the law provides for inspection supervision, state administration offices in the county would exercise jurisdiction towards the seat of the legal person. Administrative supervision would be carried out by the Ministry responsible for social care affairs which would continue to record legal persons for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. While the competent offices would keep records of the solutions issued in the field of their jurisdiction. After the discussion, the committee members unanimously decided to propose for the adoption of the Croatian Assembly for adoption of the next conclusion. The draft law on humanitarian aid in the text is being adopted as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51918	Thank you. Do the other committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51919	Honorable President, State Secretary, fellow MPs. So the provision of humanitarian aid is a higher goal for every community, a society that wants to help and alleviate human suffering, and especially in exceptional situations that come about by natural disaster or disaster caused by human action. The humanitarian aid is granted to all victims and socially sensitive groups regardless of race, skin color, sex, religion or political or other national and social origin, or there is no reason why any victim would be excluded from humanitarian aid. The area of collection and distribution of humanitarian aid is a very sensitive area and must be precisely governed by law and other necessary regulations. In this area, there should be no injustice and various profits. They must be eliminated and punished by the most severe punishments. Profitating in the most difficult human moments is the lowest form of profit. It's a crime that needs to be made public, severely punished, and such a crime cannot go out of date. Sadly, there are many examples when individuals benefit themselves in times of human disaster. So we have various forms of profit and profit, for example. war, transition, humanitarian etc. But we must all fight against them. And while laws and regulations as well as the judicial system must be according to such ruthless ones. It is precisely for these reasons that it is important that the law governing the way in which humanitarian aid is collected and distributed in the Republic of Croatia is well and qualityd in this area. The relevant law does not fully satisfy the purpose of collecting and providing humanitarian aid, and in particular that the legal persons involved in this activity were not obliged to obtain the consent of the competent ministry, but only for the purpose of obtaining tax and customs relief. A particular problem arises from the demand of a large number of organisations that have requested consent to be able to provide humanitarian aid, and that this provision of humanitarian aid is not their primary activity. It is therefore important to pass this new law, which would profile organisations primarily involved in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, then more fully define humanitarian aid forms as well as target groups in line with the existing needs of society, citizens from the area in which it is being collected but also providing humanitarian aid. This law accurately determines and distinguishes the material and financial goods collected, psychosocial assistance and humanitarian activities provided to socially sensitive groups in order to meet the basic needs of life. The local community will continue to play a central role in the collection and provision of humanitarian assistance as well as keeping the necessary records on the status of humanitarian organisations in its territory, while the ministry in charge of social care affairs will keep further records of legal persons for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The legislative proposal regulates that humanitarian aid can be collected and provided by both domestic and non-profit legal persons registered normally under the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and ultimately, the legislative proposal also lays down the conditions for the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, and the organisation of humanitarian actions, i.e. all that can be implemented, without a solution of the competent office if this is previously and in time notified to that office. It is important to stress that all types of humanitarian aid and actions require written reports and records of activities to ensure transparency towards the public and not to abuse certain tax and customs benefits in the purchase and import of certain goods needed for humanitarian activities. Since this law is extremely good, normally until the second reading, it can be even better. The Croatian Democratic Community club supported the proposed text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51920	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51921	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the HNS club we will always support any attempt to introduce more order in any area and certainly also in the area of humanitarian aid. And we fully agree with the promoter that there is much better to define and profile organisations dealing with the collection and provision of humanitarian aid. We also agree that there is a need to define more fully the various forms of humanitarian aid as well as the target groups that use this assistance. Furthermore, we agree that the collection and provision of humanitarian aid can also be shared in a proposed manner in a permanent or occasional manner, and we agree that certain responsibilities can also be transferred from the ministry to the county offices in this area. It also seems good to us that only the legal persons referred to in Article 5(1) may use customs and tax reliefs in the future. However, we must express certain reserves and hope that our concerns will be resolved by the second reading of this law on several issues. Here we go in order in the inspection section. Article 9 suggests that the same people or the same person will be able to issue a solution and to monitor the implementation of the collection and provision of humanitarian aid. We think it's something that should be solved in a different way. Furthermore, in the case of a status change of a legal person, this legal person will not be able to return and deal with the humanitarian activity for 2 years. We don't know why you left such a long period of time until his possible return in case he changed his mind and wants to do it again. Article 14(2), we will ask you to explain it to us. We interpreted him at the club in various ways, and we would like to see what you as a proposer specifically mean in this article. Therefore, Article 14(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: And now what we consider the law to be the most vulnerable, the thinst, the worst. It's the part of the law where different exceptions are allowed. This is Article 7(1), paragraph 2, paragraph 3. Namely, non-profit organisations, profit organisations and individuals can organise a humanitarian action if they wish to participate. In doing so, they do not have to have a solution to the activity, only to notify the county's competent office 15 days earlier. In addition to non-profit organisations of this other organisation, they do not even have to keep records, but, after the action, notify, one report to the competent county office. We think it's not good, we don't think it'll allow enough surveillance, transparency, and there's a wide variety of abuses, malfeasance. Since we in Croatia are inclined to use every hole in the law vigorously, we also feel that sanctions are not adequate. You can organize a humanitarian action, collect hundreds of thousands or millions of kunas, part of that or a large portion of those funds in the wrong direction, and you will pay what, several thousand kuna fines. It's a very profitable activity. That shouldn't happen. Legal persons referred to in Article 8(2) shall be released in criminal provisions. You don't mention them anywhere. In case they were to go contrary to the bill, there are no penalties for them. It seems to me that you have made one mistake here, that simply the promoter did not predict what to do with the legal persons referred to in Article 8(2), how to punish them if they do not meet the required obligations under the law here. So these are some of our general remarks on this bill in the first reading. We absolutely support it to work on this law. I hope that until the second reading you will remove these potential shortcomings and that we will all be able to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51922	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51923	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the adoption of this Law on humanitarian aid, bearing in mind that in the Republic of Croatia, the Law on humanitarian aid adopted by the Croatian Assembly on 3 June 2003 does not fully satisfy the purpose of collecting and providing humanitarian aid, in particular that legal persons who collected and provided humanitarian aid were not obliged to obtain the consent of the competent ministry, but have already obtained it for the purpose of achieving tax and customs relief. In addition, the collection and provision of humanitarian aid is only one of the activities of organisations operating for the common good, and the activities of organisations that contribute to the general good are dealt with by special laws and are much wider than the activities in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid. Therefore, the adoption of this law is necessary and what is positive in this bill is that better defined organisations primarily engaged in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid are more fully defined different forms of assistance and target groups in line with the existing needs of society in the field of collection and provision of humanitarian aid. In addition to the provisions on permanent and temporary collection, a provision on the organisation of humanitarian actions is introduced, and instead of the notion of humanitarian organisations, the notion of legal persons who have obtained a solution to the collection and provision of assistance is introduced. It is also important and good that customs and tax exemptions are granted only for a particular group i.e. legal persons who previously need to issue a solution by the competent office, which is positive, in order to prevent abuse. Procedures relating to the collection and provision of humanitarian aid in accordance with this legislative proposal will be carried out by the Office of the State Administration of the County, responsible for the seat of the legal person, and not by the Ministry of Social Care, as prescribed so far. The conditions for the permanent implementation of this activity shall be to obtain a solution approving the permanent collection and provision of assistance issued by that competent office. The legislative proposal also defines the conditions for the occasional collection and the organisation of humanitarian actions that can be carried out or can be organised without a solution of the competent office if prior notice is sent. Article 7 is disputed, which states that domestic and non-profit legal persons whose collection and provision of assistance is not the primary activity may occasionally collect and provide assistance and organise humanitarian actions in order to provide material goods to meet the basic needs of groups and persons referred to in Articles 2 and 3 of this Act and without a solution, provided that they notify the competent office in writing at least 15 days before the start of the activity. Thus, according to this article, everyone can apply for collection and assistance. For this reason, we have reason to doubt the possibility of abuse of this legal provision, the more sanctions are provided for only fines and very small in relation to the possible profit of between 2 thousand and 10 thousand kuna. I also note that Article 14 is rather vague. In addressing a number of social and sociopsychological problems, humanitarian organisations play a significant role. Those problems can be approached with sufficient elasticity by adapting quickly to the needs to respect interdisciplinary and outside the institutional principle of providing assistance. However, many obstacles are in the way of their development. Some of them are conditioned by lack of experience due to the earlier lack of private sector in the area, poor co-operation, poor co-ordination of work with government organisations, while others are unarranged by the legal regulation of the work of humanitarian and other organisations. The humanitarian aid in Croatia is most often done by humanitarian organisations and foundations, civil society created on the idea of philanthropic assistance to people in need, poor, old, disabled, widows, children without one or both parents, victims of violence and others. For the fifth year in Croatia, Croatia's Caritas has been conducting an organized campaign for a thousand joys. It is a relief campaign for thousands of families in need in Croatia. Last year's action raised 5 million and 200000 kuna, while a total of more than 16 million kunas were collected in four years, and 15000 families were assisted. The butterfly children need wings is the name of a major humanitarian action initiated by a society of patients with bullous epidermosis Debra, where the aim is to raise money for the purchase of equipment necessary to children with butterflies who are suffering from this disease. The humanitarian campaign runs until May 31st. The "All For Her" association presented a humanitarian action "And Words Healing" aimed at supporting the work of the Center for Psychological Assistance for Women with Cancer. Yesterday, a humanitarian action was held at the Journalist House in Zagreb, which will bring together financial resources to equip the first Paliatical Care facility in the Republic of Croatia. Although caring for people who suffer from incurable diseases, i.e. palatable medicine or the right of each individual to a dignified death is one of the basic human rights. In Croatia, for now, that is not the case. The Organisation of Paliatical Medicine is part of a programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that has failed to implement itself so far, so this action is once again trying to draw attention to the necessity of opening up an institution for paliatical care. In each sphere of social action, the possibility and perspective of each action depends on a legislative regulation that can encourage or suppress its development. The current situation in Croatia is such that key laws affecting the humanitarian sector have not yet been adopted in the final versions. Key laws such as the Law on humanitarian organisations, this Law on humanitarian aid, the Law on Social Care, the Civil Associations Act are still in the stages of amendments and additions. The final versions of these laws depend on the possibility of further development of humanitarian organisations in Croatia. And finally to conclude. The SDP club supports the adoption of this law, the organisation of humanitarian actions in the Republic of Croatia and the collection of humanitarian aid should be encouraged and a quality legislative framework should certainly contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51924	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51925	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Today, this Law on humanitarian aid is on the agenda, and indeed the opportunities in this country, such laws will be increasingly needed. What measures are proposed, for example, to abolish tax returns, such laws seem to become necessarily evil. And if we keep in mind 75,000 jobs lost last year, a 6% gross product drop, imports, exports in 15 weeks. 20% seems that without humanitarian help many in this country can't get through. And don't yell, listen. Because if the Prime Minister's finding is true that the last proposed measures are the last chance aside from asking ourselves the question of who led us to the bottom, that de facto we are missing any other chances all of this says that poor citizenship of every kind of humanitarian aid will come in due course. But come on, if you're not allowed to talk about me touching this Article 9 of this humanitarian aid Act right now. I quote, inspection of the work of legal persons referred to in Articles 4 and 3 of this Act and natural persons shall be carried out by the competent office of a particular county. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. etc. I think when it comes to this matter, we should increase surveillance. Why? Because there's a lot of things known to be contradictory through all kinds of associations. Of course, thank you all for helping us through any form, mainly when it comes to that war age. But there are also those who are the honorable name of these humanitarian associations or organizations abused, and that's why I think the county oversight should sort of go to the state. I am to understand the sworn regionalist and indeed Croatia is a super-centralised state. Anything that is possible should be brought down to the local level. But for this surveillance, I don't think our counties are qualified right now, and it's hard for them to be able to control exactly that kind of association. Now, on the other hand, we have an announcement of these new measures that are among other things, and these attacks on local self-government. Why? Because the new tax on income certainly means less taxes in local self-government, and don't forget that income tax rates are the first income of our counties while the state is in some way a marginal cost. And then a man asks himself why, say, one such authority wouldn't keep the state. If we want to decentralize this country, let's lower their money, not just their powers. On the other hand, it would be good if we knew how many humanitarian organisations such as this are in the Republic of Croatia, there are from every county, every city almost and almost. For the wars there were either those who acted in the territory of the Republic of Croatia significantly more. Some of these humanitarian organisations and different tasks, not only those altruistic, distribution of medicines, food and so on, some in Croatia know that from the general hospital in Pula have unloaded tons of medicines that have expired, some have dealt with no classical spying, but most of them have been very helpful to Croatia, their intention has been extremely clean, fair, honest, and it is understandable what most of these associations need to be recognised. It is clear that some have managed altruism, and some, in order not to know, write off tax reliefs in the country from which they came, in order for others to get to the Croatian market, etc., although I repeat many, many have sincerely helped us and need more and more of it to be honest and grateful. As regards Article 15 of this Act, it is said here that legal persons who have obtained a solution referred to in Article 5(1) of this Act on the purchase or import of goods necessary for any of the purposes referred to in Article 2 of this Act, that I am now not quoting it, means that this law is made easier by customs and tax regulations, a ready quote. To our citizens as soon as it happens we will end the relief, it is clearly bad, it is unnecessary, it is harmful, it will hit many. On the other hand, it is normal for humanitarian organisations to write off these customs and other fees, not to introduce them, but a man asks himself why we shift the full burden to those who are weakest, our citizens. What, though, if they are dealing with something that should not be dealt with by a humanitarian organization under the pretext of humanitarian aid. This surveillance may be in some way embedded in these articles, for example. 24. where it is said that a fine of 10 to 20 thousand kuna will be fined for the infringement of the legal person referred to in Article 5 of this Act in the event of non-intentional spending, collection and provision of humanitarian aid in the amount of 3 to 8 thousand kuna for the offence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the person responsible in the legal person will be punished, and then referred to in Article 26, in the amount of kuna 10 to 20 thousand, shall be punished for the infringement of the natural person referred to in Article 7. etc. the law in the case of unintended use of collected and provided material goods or financial resources and not to list all other penalties. For the end of God's sake, no one needs this humanitarian aid, thank all those who are and will help us, but surveillance in my court should be tighter, better or not know how to express myself more regulatedly. I'm not afraid of any more special threats that might come on that basis, they're not that kind of time anymore, but I warn that this surveillance should be monitored more strongly and more strongly. It is clear that it should be extremely benevolent to large humanitarian organisations that have so much in debt to these premises, e.g. One Caritas. Well, when we talk about the Red Cross, the Red Cross is regulated by special laws. One of them will be in front of the MPs soon. Someone mentioned earlier, I mean a colleague from the SDP of actions conducted by some medical institutions, for example. those from Rebra, but such actions are almost all over the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, you've had a chance to track this affair around the hunting sun, where some individuals have been playing with real estate. So once again, all of this is useful when it comes to humanitarian organizations, but abuses are often common and should be monitored because using someone in his accident for his own wealth is extremely inhumane. And unfortunately, there is, and therefore, a lot of attention needs to be given because you can get through these organizations and push through. As for the abolition of these some reliefs, it is clear once again that I support this as far as the tax relief is concerned, I believe that for 2010, they will be paid, that 2011 will not be introduced. Finally, some measures should come into effect from that package presented to us two days ago, 2020, so let it also concern the relief that the abolition, whose elimination would most affect the elderly, should the loss of health insurance of young people, if they lose their return to the first apartment, families with children, if they lose the possibility of abstention, and in mountainous areas or in areas of special public concern that I do not spend words. In one word of this measure shown to us two days ago the last chance, many will leave this category without a chance. Once again, this Law on humanitarian aid to the IDS club will support, but we would like that the supervision of the work of these organisations may be stronger, stronger and more concretely regulated by the law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51926	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51927	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's colleague Cain incorrectly states that the announced measures will lead to increased aid,... the need for humanitarian assistance. [[You don't understand.]] But here maybe you should look at the example of the city of Pula that did this in such a way that the biggest humanitarian aid was given to the IDS for campaign financing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51928	Let's move on. First, i.e. last on behalf of the club Mr. Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51929	Dear Mr. President, Mrs. Nikolic, colleagues and fellow MPs. We witness everyday phenomena that you too, i.e. We as MPs, and also citizens across this beautiful ours get memos... Don't sit on your ears there! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We receive letters asking individuals and associations for certain funds with the payment card attached for a variety of purposes. This phenomenon is getting more and more common and we can't deny it. The proposal for a Law on humanitarian aid that is sought in the first reading, thank God, which seeks to deal with this problem is welcome. Whether it's timely or not, it's a different matter now, but the remarks that the predecessors in their discussions pointed out by stating the articles of this law's proposal in any case I'm convinced you'll take into account and consider them not to repeat them now. I'd rather talk in this debate about ordinary examples that happen in our society, in our country. Six years ago, I had an offer from our people in Berlin for humanitarian aid in the form of school supplies for children, of six palettes of school supplies for children. Despite my cooperation and asking for it to go through a particular humanitarian organization, I couldn't achieve it because it was gone, and our people working in Berlin were then forced, forced to make these 6 palettes of school supplies instructed in a country that could realize it, and it was Nigeria. They needed it, too, and we needed it in Slavonia, Slavonski Brod. Unfortunately, this ended there because a certain regulatory legal and other problem related to passage and transport and the matter itself, therefore school supplies, could not enter the Republic of Croatia. Here's an example. Furthermore, as the Association of Citizens for Slavonia and Baranja, the Association of Citizens, not the party, so the Croatian Democratic Assembly of Slavonia and Baranja is scheduled to organise a humanitarian concert in Slavonski Brod in May 21st, and to help children with malignant, malignant diseases in the area of Brodo-Posavina County. And now, with the costs of the hall that we will pay, so from the funds of the association, we have a problem, Mrs Nikolic, to ask ZAMP for performers who will participate in this humanitarian concert to ask ZAMP not to charge its own, let me say, fee. As the Association of Citizens, I hope that, by this law and by what is adopted and further, we will have the possibility as a legal person, so the possibility of such an occasional one, and here, this law is regulated and such a possibility of the operation of humanitarian aid, hence the provision of humanitarian aid and is classified in organisations dealing with the permanent provision and collection of humanitarian aid, so those involved in the temporary collection and provision of humanitarian aid, and these three components, these are the humanitarian actions that are being implemented occasionally. Looking at those who are not a little addicted to television and who spend a lot of time in front of TV screens every day and in public television and in commercial television programs, you have almost every EPP or promotional messages you have one or two calls for help. Here, someone here listed the children of butterflies, an association that deals and helps children with lymphoma and GIST associations, etc., so now I don't list all possible associations, which invite citizens to help with their phone calls in a certain amount of money written on the screen, in small letters mostly, from a fixed or mobile phone. And it's always, clearly, pointed out that the state takes 5.50, let's say 50 kn call plus VAT. Since you are the representative and the state here, and we are some state and representative body of the highest and legislative Republic of Croatia already on several occasions I am talking about it from this pay phone, is it possible that this second item, this VAT, is either reduced or completely abolished? If people are already giving their invitation, they give a certain amount of money for humanitarian actions, for humanitarian organisations, for those who, very often for those who complain that in a health insurance system or for someone else, they cannot exercise the rights that they really need not only in terms of aiding the disease itself but also naked existences and even maintaining the lives of such persons. It's not here in this bill of law, but here's a note that could be good. We're witnesses and we're saddened, I'd say so, that's the least said, and the abuses that have taken place by some humanitarian organisations and to say abuse by individuals in these humanitarian organizations. I hope, therefore, in good faith and hope, that this law will nevertheless make certain changes in this respect for the better and that these remarks made by the clubs of the representatives who spoke before me, which I am confident and considered, are some to be included in the second reading of this bill, here is the HDSSB to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51930	Thank you. That concludes the club debate, we move on to an individual debate. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51931	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The problem of legal regulation of humanitarian aid has tried to resolve itself and has been dealt with well in a far away way in 2003. Let us remember those times of war when humanitarian aid came everywhere, until 2003 we had no legal regulations. However, the fact is that there was also talk here today that the amendments to the Law are working to prevent any abuse of this most noble human activity i.e. Help others in trouble. So, the fact is that until the 1990s, this aid was often misused that many of their capital had unfortunately acquired on humanitarian aid that had not reached those intended for it, not only from food, clothing, but also from some machines, plants, and even medical equipment. That is why it seems to me to pay particular attention here, and I would like to immediately mention it here in criminal provisions, we must take account of the adaptation to the European Union which prohibits the same behaviour from being both criminal and criminal. Since here in the provisions of 24, 25, and 26 there is talk of unintended spending collected and provided humanitarian aid, it is therefore a matter of pure abuse committed by an individual or a legal person registered to provide humanitarian aid, it is essentially a criminal offence. So it should, and there is no obstacle to such a law including criminal provisions in terms of criminal acts and not just offences, as one particularly difficult and specific criminal act. Because one who is allowed and who appears to be a humanitarian, as a good Samaritan who would abuse it deserves the most severe punishment, deserves the prison sentences, not only the fine as provided for here, because it is intended only for the offence, because otherwise for the abuse of the position as a fundamental offence and in the Penal Code it is always intended as the primary sentence of prison. It is also good in terms of preventing the state from sending a message to all the addressees, especially those who think about doing this, that it will be the most difficult to punish any abuse, because every affair in this area detims citizens who would gladly help, because it will conclude this way I am giving help and who knows where this assistance is coming from, so I ask that there is time for this to be corrected and done as a specific criminal act of great social danger. My predecessors have already said on behalf of the club what the state of the state is, no matter what the state declares in the constitution as a social state, unfortunately, because of the difficult times, because of still not having a clear vision and because of the still hesitant that these consequences of the recession crisis are borne by them, the most difficult it is to make a fair tax reform as quickly as possible, so that this cry cannot be taxed by those who gain great capital gains, alas nothing more difficult than this authority. And to protect the worker from receiving and receiving the wages he deserves, what a pain. It can't be because they'll all come knocking on the door of social aid, those who have earned their salary or those who will be simply forced to do their fair work, who have done part either through regular pay, some other job, and are not paid to receive humanitarian aid. What I would particularly like to mention and what seems important to me, this provision that predicts that local self-government, that these individuals who have acquired the status of humanitarian organisations, will be bound precisely by the local community and thus put into the jurisdiction of city offices for work, health care and social care. We consider this a good solution, and as explained here, that in such a way, no matter what the permits give to state bodies, they will be closer to the individuals to whom this aid is intended. However, on this occasion, I would like to point out, therefore, that this is all about the expansion of our civil sector and associations, and we need to understand once that these associations, especially those dealing with this kind of business, are not any auxiliary part of the government, that they often have to depend on what kind of relationship they have with central or local authorities, especially local authorities, because then those who are not numerous, although they are doing an important task, receive the least funding in local self-government units. Or if they call power at any level. Therefore, the assistance financed by local self-government units cannot depend on whether they have criticised or not. In such a way, the impression is that these associations really are, then the citizens themselves fell in some kind of hostage relationship versus the authorities. Because they play a very helpful role for the country itself. Let us only remember the past actions that were organised and organised by individual associations, which was said on behalf of the SDP Club by counterpart Crljenko, so where they were collecting help to collect some appliances, some machines that were the primary tasks of the state to provide them. This must not happen in the future, so that the state is unable to provide those elements that it is bound by all laws to provide. Let's just remember those actions for Peter's hospital, where it was shown here. Of course people got together and organized why, because the state didn't do their part of the job. Therefore, by appealing to the fact that, in these special times, the state is finally taxing capital gains to protect those that work, to fulfil those tasks that it is legally required by providing services to citizens, and that for cases or scope of action of legal persons who have directed their work, the most humane relationship to help others is thus committed to them by providing assistance and stimulating the work of such persons, in fact helping citizens and ultimately dispensing themselves. Is it any way to show that not only is the administrator, but I am the authority that has the soul. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51932	Thank you. I have an announcement. I would like to inform the members of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee and the representatives of the representatives of the Croatian Parliament that today, on 22 April 2010, they will hold the 90th session of the Committee on Legislatives at Josip Jelačić's Hall starting at 13.30 p.m. with the proposed agenda as set out in the written cancellation of the call. The chairman of the Legislative Committee, the esteemed Emil Tomljanovic. It is next in an individual debate, the distinguished representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51933	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, secretary. I'm going to start my debate with that famous Latin "Historia est Master Vitae". Namely, as a colleague Marinovic said on June 3rd 2003, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on humanitarian aid. During the period of its application, it was observed that the applicable law does not fully satisfy the purpose of providing and collecting humanitarian aid. Legal persons who collected and provided humanitarian aid were not obliged to obtain the consent of the competent ministry, but rather supplied it for the purpose of achieving tax and customs relief. A particular problem in the application of the current law is a large number of organisations that have applied for a request for consent to provide humanitarian aid, while collecting and providing humanitarian aid was not the primary activity but were primarily engaged in the provision of social services in the community. Why is it necessary to pass a new law? First, because of the profiling of organisations dealing primarily with the collection and provision of humanitarian aid. Furthermore, more fully define different forms of humanitarian aid. Next, define the target groups already involved in line with existing needs in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid. A provision on the organisation of humanitarian actions is also being introduced. Instead of the idea of humanitarian organisations, the concept of legal persons who have obtained a solution to the collection and provision of humanitarian aid is introduced. Finally, humanitarian aid to third countries in the case of natural disasters and human-induced crises is regulated by a special law and this legislative proposal regulates the possibility of legal persons acting in such situations in the Republic of Croatia. As regards the proceedings relating to the collection and provision of humanitarian aid under this law, the Office of State Administration's Social Activities will carry out services in the county responsible for the seat of a legal person, not the Ministry of Social Care. The Ministry of Social Affairs would continue to record legal persons for the territory of the Republic of Croatia while the competent offices would keep records of the solutions issued in the field of their jurisdiction. Who can collect and provide humanitarian aid according to this legal proposal? This can be done by both domestic and non-profit persons registered or registered in an appropriate register in the Republic of Croatia, whose first activity is to collect and provide humanitarian aid, under two, further that humanitarian aid related to victims of natural disasters and crises caused by human activity can also be provided by the authorities of the state administration in charge of specific regulations. And under three, extremely humanitarian aid provided to socially sensitive groups can also be collected by natural persons and by a profitable legal person as well as by the organisation of humanitarian actions. There was also a new provision that I do not think is mentioned here about anti-discrimination which regulates that humanitarian aid is provided to all victims and socially sensitive groups regardless of race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, age and other traits. So the conditions for the permanent implementation of this activity are to obtain a solution that approves the collection and provision of humanitarian aid issued by the competent office of the state administration in the county. It is important to mention that mandatory records and reports have been prescribed for all types of humanitarian aid, as well as for humanitarian actions, in order to ensure transparency and promote public support. The provisions on tax and customs exemptions of a legal person when purchasing or importing the goods needed for one of the purposes continue to make concessions prescribed by customs tax regulations. As regards the necessary funds for the implementation of this law, no additional financial resources are required. The law should enter into force on 1 January 2011. And in the end, I can't forget when it comes to mentioning a priest in the area of Turin named Don Romeo and his name is still. During the start of the war, which provided my parish in Velika Gorica with food and humanitarian aid to the pedestals of the Blessed Virgin Mary. And I think this is an opportunity to mention this particular man and how important these actions are. Of course I will support this proposed humanitarian aid law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51934	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think it's a quality law that puts order into this area in a good way. It really makes sense to write down more thoroughly and how humanitarian aid is organised, to introduce provisions on the organisation of humanitarian actions, infringement provisions have been introduced. There's a lot of them. But I think it's a good thing and it'll help to carry out quality control. I think it is good that solutions approving the permanent collection and provision of humanitarian aid should be issued by the competent office of the state administration in the county. And in that sense, as someone before me said, is somehow at least one small element of the decentralisation process. I think the 2003 law had its shortcomings and, of course, there were abuses. I believe it is extremely important to create all the preconditions that both the collection and distribution of humanitarian aid, the organisation of humanitarian actions is doing everything in a very transparent way and I think this law will contribute. We have been witnessing in the past few years, indeed, the organisation of a large number of humanitarian actions. Of course, there is no need to question either the noble intentions of such actions, or the intention behind such actions, because we absolutely must encourage society to say one social empathy and awareness of the specific problems of individuals, our fellow citizens or according to a certain, in any way, socially endangered group of citizens. But as she said, we must in no way allow the nobles to intend to abuse and therefore do what is happening in this area in a transparent manner. Abuses are harmful for several reasons. Of course, the first and the basic thing is that help does not get where it needs to be, the second someone unfairly exploited himself, but the third thing is that such dirty things say I could create in public not only mistrust but also reluctance to future humanitarian actions, and we certainly wouldn't promote or develop human solidarity and social empathy. Often, I find myself missing information in public after some humanitarian action and for which the public would know what these funds were spent and where it actually ends all the money collected from some humanitarian aid. It did not happen once that because of the suspected and amateur organizers, some humanitarian concerts ended in a downfall and the question of where the money actually went missing. So I basically support this law, I think it's a quality step. I think in a relatively good way, they'll sort this area out. I'm going to take this opportunity here, and like some of my previous colleagues, I'm going to point out some of the problems that are objectively in the system that we might be able to solve. Following what counterpart Ingrid Anticevic said, I would say that I should not allow humanitarian actions to become in some way a substitution or replacement for systematic assistance that must come from the state. The humanitarian aid that she is also welcome, but she must in some ways be part of an active state policy in solving the problem. It is difficult to get the impression that many humanitarian concerts are dealing with problems that seem to me the most in the domain of health, social, science, scholarship students that the state should actually care about. I think it may be an absurd little too difficult word, but in any case, it doesn't seem right to collect humanitarian aid to edit a single wing of the hospital or to collect some kind of apparatus used for diagnostic purposes, to resuscitate the roof of a home for children without parents. So, I don't think that's good because humanitarian aid like I said could be, should be part of an active state policy in a particular segment, rather than being a substitute for what the state would be obliged to do simply. I also find it unfair at least that the state charges in some way the social awareness of citizens. So, citizens collect money and give it voluntarily to buy a certain medical apparatus, but eventually they have to understand that through the paid VAT state it was possible to buy another such apparatus. So I don't think that's good, I don't think that's fair, and in that sense we have to change the laws. The Ministry of Finance and the Government can give up the VAT of course if they want to, but in a number of cases I know they didn't just do it. If you weren't paying VAT, I believe there'd be a lot, a lot more donations. Neither companies nor individuals are in any way stimulated by donations, and I don't really know why the state is so easy and rejects these assets that could potentially come from companies, from individuals. In many countries, we have a situation where the state encourages donations through tax reliefs, so I think that in this sense we should really do something concrete. As former mayoral in charge of resolution and health care, I know very often that we donated financial resources for different purposes, so for the purchase of medical apparatus, for aids for people with disabilities, for the purchase of medicines, and we always had to pay VAT for them, so it's simply not correct. I'd like to point out one more example. I believe a very noble action was launched by Caritas and some trade chains, and there should be a little more hearing from the state for this action. In fact, we know that too much food is being thrown or burned because of the expiry date for use. We now have a situation where a retail chain donates food products, or that is to donate food products that are nearing the end of the life of Caritas, or some humanitarian organization. However, he is obliged to pay VAT on that donation. So it is quite clear that, without exception, by choosing between paying taxes and burning this food, they will choose what is different today with so many poor and needy at least seems bad. So I think that in this sense we should be more tolerant, more flexible and bring about changes in the legal that would allow trade chains today to help the needy and the poor in a concrete way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51936	Thank you. We have two replicas. First respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51937	Thank you! I think the basic question is, why do people even come into the situation that they need help? I agree with what my colleague said about a series of measures the government is taking, so for me and this so-called one. A package of anti-recession measures will bring one large part of the population into the situation that they need help or humanitarian aid. Unfortunately, everything here that has been said that this humanitarian aid is increasingly becoming a matter of private initiative of various estradial stars, richer people, various associations, etc. and the less-organised states seem to me to be in perfunctory so that the constitutional category of the social state, this syntagm, will disappear more and more and more, will go to that sector that will depend on the well-being of these or those individuals that the state will stimulate some kind of tax relief to grant humanitarian aid. I think it's the worst thing that can happen to one society, because its basic task is to protect its citizens first and foremost from misery and to ensure their dignity of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51938	I don't want to pollemize, but I just want to warn you that the world's richest countries have the best organised humanitarian aid for both their own and others in the world. Replica reply, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51939	Thank you very much. Comrade Jurovic, I could give another example. Here is my colleague Crljenko, speaking on behalf of the club, mentioned an action that began yesterday, and the action aims to raise funds for the establishment of the first Palitative Care Institute in Croatia. We all work and make some contributions, we also make health contributions. Why are we detaching him? We extract it so that the system can be arranged, a specific health care system, and that it can be of service to us. However, we are not at our service. Under all the laws of the Republic of Croatia, citizens have the right to paliative care. They've been entitled to this for many years since we put it into law. I can say that as a unit of the local self-government of Rijeka, we asked the Ministry of Health and Social Care, Madam Secretary of State, you know this very well on several occasions permission to establish a Palitative Care facility in cooperation with the county. We never got permission to do that. Today, we have begun to raise funds for humanitarian aid and for the purpose of building such an institution. I don't know who's gonna build it at the end. So, who's gonna give an amen? State? The Ministry? Will he be the founder of the local self-government unit? Will it be the city of Zagreb? What if we didn't change the law? Therefore, it is not good for humanitarian aid and the funds collected to become a substitute for what the state should worry about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51940	Thank you. I must warn, however, that we are sticking to the framework of the replica, because this is what you were talking about, the esteemed representative Jurjevic, did not mention a word. So I ask you to stick to it, if it replicates itself to be replicated to basic exposure and then to answer to the replica. Please! Please, you're not a lawyer here and don't win! We have a replica of the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51941	We have no doubt that humanitarian aid has an important material aspect. But I would say far more, perhaps even this one moral dimension for society as a whole. When it comes to international aid to humanitarian aid, so much more. It's not directly about this law. The international donation of the Japanese and the Government of the Kingdom of Monaco does not concern this law, but as regards humanitarian demining, it will be taxed with VAT on the basis of amendments to the VAT Act that was passed last year and this year we will demining 115000 square metres less only thanks to the fact that this government has decided to take some of the money we received to demining Croatia. So, in this context, I mention this because it's about humanitarian demining and I ask the secretary of state to warn her about something that may have happened as a mistake, not as an intention. Therefore, all those states and humanitarian aid with which Croatia does not have an international contract have been excluded. That provision needs to be amended and we will have the opportunity to do so. Here's the context, actually, was this VAT that my colleague was talking about, so you wouldn't say it had anything to do with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51942	Thank you. And I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes, at 10 o'clock and 40 minutes. We're continuing the debate. It is time for the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what we've heard today, the humanitarian aid law has been in force in the Republic of Croatia since 2003. But it does not fully satisfy the purpose of collecting and providing humanitarian assistance. Several colleagues have already pointed out today that the particular problem in the application of this applicable law is a large number of organisations that have submitted a request for consent to provide humanitarian aid, but only the provision and collection of humanitarian aid was not their primary activity. These organisations were primarily involved in the provision of social services in the community, and the provision of such services by such organisations is carried out through the negotiation of projects co-financed from different sources in the Republic of Croatia and abroad. Furthermore, legal persons have obtained the consent to provide humanitarian aid for the purpose of obtaining the status of a humanitarian organisation and all for the purpose of achieving tax and customs relief. So these are all reasons why a new law is needed, and in order to profile organisations that are primarily involved in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, and to more fully define different forms of humanitarian aid, as well as target groups in line with existing needs in society. Furthermore, this legislative proposal also introduces a provision on anti-discrimination, so here, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to point out the need for enlargement, so this article. The provision says that humanitarian aid is provided to all victims and socially sensitive groups, regardless of race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political and other beliefs, national and social origin, age and other characteristics. I suggest here, and on the proposal of persons with disabilities, so... organisations, communities of the alliance of persons with disabilities to be placed here, adds disability as, therefore, an anti-discrimination basis, that it be set out as these bases are listed here. [[You don't understand.]] What is important is to say that this law will not need to allocate new financial resources because it simply won't be necessary to hire new people and I certainly think it is useful. However, I would just like to point out that as far as criminal provisions are concerned until the second reading, I believe that here we will have some more concrete perhaps proposals on this issue, and as the State Secretary herself said, the ministry is ready to accept all remarks and suggestions. The Association of Persons with Disabilities will well draw up a proposal to so say the criminal provisions at this time there are considerations that perhaps they are not, these fines are not large enough, and to encourage that what I can specifically talk about for people with disabilities, that a series of actions have been held in the last 10, 15 years, and that we know that many of them, to say so, have not been famously completed. More specifically, the money collected in these actions has not always been used for purpose. Unfortunately, the most difficult hit are people with disabilities who were indeed in need, so whose humanitarian aid in the actions that were being collected was inescapably necessary, in the end it did not come to them. Therefore, there are associations of people with disabilities who are thinking that it may be necessary to increase sanctions for such persons who are involved in the collection of humanitarian aid, rather than spending it on purpose. But here's what we'll see until the second reading, we'll take a good look at it and deliver it to you in the ministry. I believe that we will find a good solution so that the humanitarian aid collected will indeed come to those who really need it. And here in the end I want to say I support this bill in the first reading, and as I said, I believe that it will ultimately be good, and all for the purpose of humanitarian aid, the arrival of humanitarian aid indeed in the right place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51944	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we have already heard that the proposal for this new law is primarily based on the fact that it does not fully satisfy the purpose of collecting and providing humanitarian aid. Legal persons who collected and provided humanitarian aid did so for the purpose of obtaining tax and customs relief and were not obliged to obtain the consent of the competent ministry. It should be pointed out that the collection and provision of humanitarian aid is only one part of the activities of organisations operating for the common good, and such action is much wider than these activities. In addition, a large number of organisations appeared in local communities, whose humanitarian aid activity was not a fundamental activity, but a social service. Social services in the community by these organisations are implemented through the negotiation of projects co-financed from different sources, both in Croatia and abroad. Therefore, this law will more effectively define the various forms of humanitarian aid and the target group. A provision on the organisation of humanitarian actions is also introduced, and the name of a humanitarian organisation is replaced by the notion of legal persons who need to provide a solution for the collection and provision of humanitarian aid and thus will prevent possible misuse of humanitarian actions. This law will make the aid faster and accessible to those who are intended, which is also the purpose of assistance, as the process of binding to the local community continues and the obligation to adopt solutions and to keep the necessary records. It will contribute, we also heard, secret discrimination, pardon, decentralisation of functions in social care and will be better covered institutions in social care. So far, humanitarian aid collection and distribution procedures have been carried out by the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and this law will be done by social services in the offices of the State Administration of Competent Countys according to the seat of a legal person. This law also introduces newspapers in determining anti-discrimination. The humanitarian aid is provided to all victims and socially sensitive groups regardless of their age, sex, language, religion, political belief, social origin and others. The law regulates the permanent and temporary collection and provision of humanitarian aid. In addition, what we also need to keep emphasising and pointing out is that this law will introduce more justice to the needy, which will further motivate Croatian citizens to this noble activity. It is also important to raise our children and future generations in the joy of giving and compassion in human suffering. I will also say that, and hopefully, the Croatian Parliament will already bring amendments and additions to the Croatian Red Cross Act in a few days, which will also contribute to the quality of this law. It is precisely because, in addition to public authority in accepting and caring for the endangered and suffering population, it helps the healthcare service to conduct health care, especially children and young people especially work to prevent all forms of addiction. Here are the reasons why I would be very happy to support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51946	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative of Dubravka Shuica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51947	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. Here, and I'd like to join those who welcome the adoption of this law. The reasons for the adoption, we heard them, mostly for consent so far, had to be obtained mainly because of tax and customs reliefs, and not because of what you would do today, which is why you are proposing this law today, which is a large number of organisations that have been involved in the provision of humanitarian aid, and this was not their primary activity, but rather the provision of social services. And today, we have heard here many times, including in some replicas, where in my opinion, the work of humanitarian action and social services was deliberately or intentionally mixed. Here, this law, as far as I can see, speaks clearly of the collection of material financial goods being one kind of help, another is psychosocial aid, the third is humanitarian activity in order to protect and save victims of natural disasters and the next is the collection of material financial goods that are provided to socially sensitive persons. Therefore, what has been said that many Croatian citizens will have to come into the situation to receive humanitarian aid is not true because they are now and some of them are in the welfare system. So this law clearly distinguishes it and I welcome it. I also see that there is a reason for adopting this law is a desire to profile organisations that would primarily deal with humanitarian aid, and what is to welcome are the provisions of this law that introduce humanitarian actions. I would like to point out here that it would be a good idea and perhaps if in the second reading it could be inserted that the results of humanitarian actions must be made public. I understand that you have stated here that it has to be recorded, that you have to go with the records. But it's a good idea, in my opinion, to make public the results of certain actions. This may have to be implemented in a second reading, for it would surely be much more transparent to do humanitarian work, and surely this law would have more effect. If that's possible, Madam Secretary of State, I think it would be good. We know there is also a special law for third countries, and this regulates the issue of humanitarian action in Croatia. It is also to welcome the decentralisation that you are introducing here even though so far the process has been related to the local community, but it is now going to be that the provision of humanitarian aid under this law is carried out by the Social Activities Service in the Offices of the State Administration in the County, not by the Ministry responsible for Social Services. In that sense, I think that this is another contribution to decentralisation in Croatia that has been implemented in this law. What I would also like to point out is the introduction of a permanent and occasional activity. It is necessary to permanently obtain a solution that enables the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, and to see that there are provisions that regulate it, and in this sense I think this public disclosure of the results should be put in place. In this way, it may be better controlled regardless of what you state here that a solution to the competent office should be made if a prior notice is sent. But surely there was a lot of abuse at the time of the war and of the flood, and there was certainly profit here and unfortunately it was a very common phenomenon that humanitarian services, or actions, were used during various disasters, especially in Croatia at the time of and after the Homeland War. Also, I welcome this anti-discrimination provision where you introduce that assistance is provided to all victims regardless of race, skin color, sex, language. And I support my colleague, Mrs. Lukacic, to introduce people with disabilities because I believe that would also show sensitivity. As regards Articles 24, 25 and 26 relating to infringements, I would agree that criminal liability should be imposed. If this is possible in the second reading because I believe that, I don't know, the amount of fines can be sufficient, but surely it should be criminally responsible for the abuse of such situations. And I think you might consider that in a second reading. In any case, I welcome the adoption of the law. What is particularly looking forward to is that reports must be submitted and that you want to achieve transparency and public support to action, and there is no reason for certain citizens of the Republic of Croatia who feel the need to deal with this business after having such a clear law not to engage in such a business venture. In that sense, I would like to say that I support the adoption of this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51948	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is precisely because of the clear definition and the profiling of humanitarian organisations I think this law is working on introducing order, not only because of that, but also because of the definition of who the tax relief is actually going to. This will also reduce the abuses that have taken place so far. It also seems that this law facilitates the collection of humanitarian aid when we look at that in one part of the story that every legal then profitable, non-profit and also natural person can collect humanitarian aid, or make some humanitarian action if, of course, they inform the competent county office within 15 days. It's a good idea, it should be welcomed, because it avoids exactly unnecessary administrations that very often could lead to a delay in action. However, it seems to me that there are no traps, but there is one problem, if read, then it can be seen that the same state office is actually overseeing the same humanitarian action providers with natural sanctioning opportunities. Well, let's just say, someone from the humanitarian impulses can decide as a natural person to do a humanitarian task of collecting something for the citizens and going according to this law. First inform the office, then go media inform people about the action, then people bring that goods he decides to collect, and then he also breaks out for transport, for space, storage, etc., and then the inspector comes along, finds some kind of violation of course he has to pay the fine and none of that action. Perhaps it would be better to get all the permits first, to meet the office and then move on. Of course, the legislator has fenced himself and said that after inspection by legal and physical persons, such irregularities may be removed within a certain period of time in order to make it all legal. We can now say that we have two variants, and probably you, when you set this law, were looking at two variations, first it's a rigorous, rigorous approach to this area that, before any action is launched, you're looking for a real form of satisfaction, alignment with the law, sublegal acts, and the second one is what is expected to be something more flexible in such a way that as many people get involved in these humanitarian actions. And it only happens when you sanction it when you determine that crime. I would also join my colleagues who have suggested that it be a criminal offence, because this is how this is defined as a violation, given that it is punished by fines. However, abuse of humanity is a real crime. I'd still like to mention VAT when citizens give their phone calls money. It is also evident that there are some exceptions when the state kills VAT and does not kill. You should actually see what are the criteria when you release VAT from humanitarian actions and when you collect. Also, in fact, such actions, most often work to close holes in the problem, most often these actions are when buying early health devices. However, the health care system is being spent a lot and I think the state is just due, so I'd like to go back to this part if citizens are humanitarian if citizens are making their call then the state should also release the VAT at least this kind of humanitarian action. Otherwise, since this law brings papers and certainly reduces abuses, of course I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51950	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative of Šima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51951	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the Republic of Croatia, the humanitarian aid law adopted by the Croatian Parliament seven years ago is in force, in particular 3. Six. In 2003. According to the applicable Law, legal persons who had exercised the consent to provide humanitarian aid acquired the status of a humanitarian organisation and accepted the obligation to keep records, deliver regular reports, and in exchange for the status of an organisation acting for the common good. The law of law estimated not to satisfy fully is therefore an assessment that it is necessary to adopt a new law. The new Law would profile organisations primarily involved in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid. The humanitarian aid to third countries in the event of natural disasters and human-induced crises is regulated by a special law. Procedures related to the collection and provision of humanitarian aid and according to this legislative proposal will be carried out by social services in the Offices of State Administration in the Croatian County. General provisions make this legislative proposal more precise differences in the collection of material resources, financial goods, psychosocial assistance, humanitarian activities in order to protect victims of natural disasters and victims of crises caused by human activity. This Legislative Proposal regulates that humanitarian aid can be collected and provided by domestic and foreign non-profit legal persons registered or registered in certain registers in the Republic of Croatia. The conditions for the permanent implementation of this activity are to obtain a solution that receives permanent collection and provision of humanitarian assistance. The law also lays down the i.e. defined implementation and occasional activities of the collection and provision of humanitarian aid. Additional resources are not needed to implement this law, because, as is apparent here, this job will be carried out by the staff of the Office of State Administration on the ground. For all things, I support the Law on humanitarian aid in the first reading, and I believe that we will put it together to serve the purpose and to strengthen myself here in accordance with criminal provisions so as not to exploit those who are in need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51952	Thank you. It's next, the distinguished representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. I really support the adoption of this law because, as already mentioned since 2003, we have not had a change of law, and it is obvious that the practice has led to the conclusion that it needs to be changed because we have seen a number of irregularities ourselves. I would especially point out for all those organizations that work humanitarianly to really do well who intend to do so, of course we have seen abuse. But in my neighborhood of Bjelovar-Belova County, an example of a good organization that works in the town of Bjelovar is "Caritas Župe St. Antuna," which also works very well with local authorities with those authorities in the city and with the county. Of course I have to thank you for discussing this law to all those who helped us during the Homeland War, because without this help we received in drugs and other donations, a real example in my hospital could not work. Unfortunately, we witnessed false help, and one of these is, for example, Recently, one association that wanted to help the defender, who collected money by sharing all over Croatia with the account numbers with different payment numbers, and is suspected of the millions of amounts they used and of course not to pay that defender for the help that was initially intensities. On the Internet, we often find the text "If you want to contribute to humanitarian action, and you do not have our payment card, click here and you will see what number it is". So the question is, he's hiding behind that number and whose money he ends up with. We were also witnessing that through the cover of humanitarian work the association received really free concert spaces, free space in the media, and for the promotion of themselves and their own concert, so that eventually they turned out to be in a downer and that they couldn't help the one for which the concert was announced. This law defines organisations primarily involved in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, and defines different forms of humanitarian aid not to list them because they have already been said. As well as the target groups in line with the existing needs in the society in the field of collection and provision of humanitarian aid. To welcome the introduction into this law of the provisions of the anti-discrimination law, and I certainly support colleague Lukacic's proposal to introduce this disability into this law. In the end, it's according to the Disabilities Convention. Therefore, the conditions under which humanitarian aid can be collected and provided in the Republic of Croatia are laid down, provisions on the organisation of humanitarian actions and assistance are introduced. The humanitarian aid in the Republic of Croatia can be provided through permanent or occasional collection and humanitarian assistance. Instead of the idea of humanitarian organisations, the concept of legal persons is introduced by this law which have obtained a solution for the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, and so far the legal persons who have been collecting and providing humanitarian aid have not been obliged to obtain consent from the competent ministry, but have already obtained for the purpose of achieving their tax and customs relief. To many organisations that have come into agreement to provide humanitarian aid, of course, it was not a primary activity, but rather the provision of social assistance. The law allows the collection and provision of humanitarian aid registered in an appropriate register in the Republic of Croatia. Domestic and non-profit parties will be asked in the relevant register. And that's very important. It is important to note that humanitarian aid provided to socially sensitive groups can be collected and provided by natural persons and profitable legal persons in the form of the organisation of humanitarian actions, if they previously send notifications to the county office of the state administration. In the process of decentralisation, it approves of the permanent collection and provision of humanitarian aid at the same time carrying out inspection, and the supervision would be carried out by the competent ministry. Furthermore, legal persons are required to keep records of the collection and provision of humanitarian aid and to submit this to the competent office once a year. I think it really should be transparent and publicly shown how expensive and where that money went. We often encounter a VAT problem that the opposition here states. However, I would like to say that this may even be a topic for a broader discussion. But if you look a little bit when humanitarian action is organized, the man who calls and wants to participate in it then pays VAT. If the hospital buys one mammographer, we know that it buys it from a state budget that is somehow again, so not in some way but in a real way paid by citizens and through it is paid VAT. What would happen if we released VAT payments? I don't know how this could work at all, because in a way, they would still encourage all hospitals to activate humanitarian organisations to collect certain instruments just to keep that VAT from being paid. So I think that VAT must remain and that we cannot do discrimination on the basis of some other principles. It's kind of a trick. Here's the thing about criminal provisions and violations, knowing all that abuse that's been done because I think those criminal provisions and offences should be much more stringent, so here's to the second reading under those points to consider it a little bit, because many who have abused it have benefited greatly. And to conclude, unfortunately, we have witnessed the provision of false humanitarian aid, witnesses of malfeasance, and that this is not really happening, we really need this proposed law, so a law of enhanced control, a law that will prevent abuse in some way, and that such things don't happen in that area anymore. Human beings mean a very rich thing to have in themselves, Christian help, and in the end, faith always warns us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51954	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Caparin, you have cited a series of examples of abuse of humanitarian aid and I would like to thank you for a very open debate and for pointing to possible situations that should not be repeated in the future. Also, when I spoke in front of the club, I said that criminal provisions should be significantly served, that's what you said. I only replicate to hear your point of view in your answer whether you are in favour of not only punishing several thousand kunas but permanently prohibiting someone from organising such humanitarian actions if this is proved. I think it's the worst form of abuse when humanitarian aid is used and directed. So I'm saying here's what I'm wondering if you're willing to go to that extreme.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51956	Replication response. Dear Representative Carmela Caparin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, it hurts me personally when someone abuses humanitarian activity for their own benefit. A large number of organizations are involved in humanitarian activity and I note, humanitarianally it means to be rich, to help others. It's Christian to help, so I say it's what faith teaches me and I carry it inside me. I can't imagine anyone being able to abuse it. These numerous criminal provisions that are mentioned by me are really small and should be larger and would even agree partly because listen, whoever needs these humanitarian aid is really crying out for it and I personally would say you can't deal with it anymore because you've really abused it. Because it's hard for someone who's getting humanitarian help, but we're the rich ones who can give it and so on, someone when the third person gets involved who abuses it, I don't think he should be able to deal with it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51958	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative Mirela Holy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51959	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that, as I have managed to understand, colleagues and colleagues will support this bill in my first reading. And I will really look briefly at some things that are not really clear to me in this bill, and I hope that they may in some way be improved or a little more detailed in the second reading in order to avoid certain struggles. Article 3(3) states that the humanitarian aid provided for in Article 2 of this Act for users is free of charge. Article 2 lists all the activities that are meant under humanitarian aid, but I don't think it's there, we know what they're thinking, so they can't charge. In principle, those who are providing such humanitarian aid charge these users this service, but I think perhaps this should explain it a little more in this article. I would also like to look back on one thing that, in my opinion, is lagging behind in this bill, which is part of the obligation to pay or pay VAT on humanitarian aid. We have in one article, it seems to me that it is somewhere near the end of this law, where it is said that legal persons, that is more specifically Article 15, which speaks of tax and customs relief, that the legal persons who have obtained the solution provided for in Article 5(1) of this Act when purchasing or importing goods necessary for some of the purposes listed in Article 2 of this Law make it easier for customs and tax regulations. When the case was meant to collect humanitarian aid for the victims in Haiti, then, I put the question of the Minister of Finance about why VAT is actually being charged to this humanitarian aid, and on that occasion the minister replied that all associations or entities that collect such humanitarian aid can subsequently address the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Finance and ask that these funds that they have paid them actually for VAT return. I think it might not be a bad idea for this bill, namely, to state in the law what cases these are and in which situations these humanitarian aid providers may seek a VAT exemption in order not to in fact be obliged to pay VAT at that stage of the collection of aid. So now I don't know if it's possible to do it in any way, given that the way of the solution is regulated now, and so, is it possible to predict that part of the VAT exemption for such purposes is also possible. So I don't think it would be bad if it meant, in the second reading, one particular article might refer to how this issue could be regulated in those first steps, and in this way it might make it easier and increase the amount that goes to those who are unhappy, whether it's this or that purpose. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51960	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51961	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State. Like all MPs here in the Croatian Parliament, I support the adoption of this law, and I am particularly pleased that the law is discussed in two readings. I think even these things that are agreed on, and this debate shows that there are some details that can be fixed until the second reading and that in fact all of us with some common desire to have a more orderly area, that we have an area where we can prevent abuse simply all of us can improve much better. Maybe I should start with just a few remarks with this particular story that my colleague Holly was telling right now. In fact, Article 15 of the proposal of this law defines that donors or humanitarian aid collectors are entitled to tax and customs reliefs in accordance with probably tax laws. As tax laws change in our country on average two to three times a year, which is not good for the financial sector either, and very often depending on the current economic situation, and now we witness such things, the first thing that is cut to say in tax regulations is a variety of reliefs and even then these on donations and the humanitarian story. I don't think it would be bad, with the support of what my colleague Holly said, that in Article 15, we define exactly what these are, so we can't define as we can define it in tax law, but to put somewhere to suggest that there are reliefs that apply to this or to that and then that will be more detailedly regulated by tax regulations. Because indeed, the situation which has put a little bit of footing and the Croatian public when, for example, although foreign aid is not regulated by this law, there were examples of such and domestic ones when the money was collected for help in Haiti for an earthquake. We had a phone, a charity phone from which the VAT came. Of course Minister Schuker then said at one point, yes, but it could be requested to return the VAT from the state. I think it would be good for us to decide in this law first that this VAT isn't even collected, and then that there are no unnecessary double VAT payments transactions, so let's still do with that money that he doesn't have the right to have and then we go back and pay back to things that we would initially have been... But I repeat, I don't think it would be a bad article of the 15th complete perhaps a slightly better description of which these are tax and customs reliefs in at least one sense, at least in principle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, when I mentioned this phone, I don't think it would be bad if there was a provision in the law that would regulate humanitarian phones, or all those services that go through a third intermediary. So there's some kind of telephony operator, telecommunications actually appears as a mediator. No, they have similar things, and in this sense these, in particular, telecommunications services for added value, I don't know how much it is and whether it's adequately settled in the Telecommunications Act. But that's something, I say I personally don't know enough details but there seems to be a lot of problems here, and there's a part of the abuse we haven't solved. These phones and other actions can fall under that definition of humanitarian actions that are now being introduced into the law, and that's good. But here's the proposal right now, and I don't think it would be too bad if we even defined these humanitarian actions. Of course it's hard for them to depend on the circumstances. But let's put on some kind of gauge to say what a humanitarian action is and at which point the humanitarian action ceases to be exclusively a humanitarian action, and it becomes actually a regular business for individuals who are almost and exclusively engaged in this. I mean, specifically, humanitarian concerts that, under the firm, participants in humanitarian concerts, so from that technique to the performer, have no cost, for that time a certain fee. So then in the end, all the things that people who come to that charity payment concert come back to you as a charity contribution, they go back through the performers and people just live on it. And she added, so what should be the goal, which is to raise additional funds for this one or that one is simply lost. Because anything can be included as the initial cost of a person participating in a particular humanitarian action. So let's maybe define a little bit in the sense that these are the levels of costs that are allowed to be recognised to say that as a real cost for people who participate in humanitarian actions. It's, of course, the cost of some kind of gasoline or oil coming from a location... But there are a lot of things that are written at cost, and actually the costs aren't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, I think we should think a little bit about whether this solution is that when individuals collect humanitarian aid is an optimal solution that they really just need to inform the competent authority that they are going to collect assistance. Each of us colleagues and colleagues myself and I hope a similar situation with you at least once a week in my mailbox I find a description of some difficult life situation with a corresponding payment card. I guess most of these things work physically for themselves or for others. It is very difficult to check whether it is really about collecting humanitarian aid or whether it is about some kind of abuse, or manipulation. We've had in the media cases where certain people for some other person collected humanitarian aid I mean nonexistent. And in this sense, the proposal to add to the law that those for whom humanitarian aid is collected give consent to be a humanitarian action for them. We had examples of hospitals, associations, institutions, individuals who had no idea that something was being collected for them and something that might not actually be needed. We had these machines for certain hospitals collected, I think that ultimately stand, standing by because there's just no one working with them. Perhaps if it were up to those users, they might find some better purpose to help them. So, then, we might put in some kind of request that legal persons make for an action to collect humanitarian aid to be a statement of those to whom it is indeed something they need. And I repeat, it seems to me that the biggest problem is that, although there isn't much money, there are individuals who can benefit from such situations. It's when humanitarian aid is collected by natural persons for other individuals. And the last, although it is now added here to the law that legal persons involved in the collection of humanitarian aid can have it as one of their activities. I have to express a little bit of a reserve to that provision in some way. We and now have some suggestions to discuss in the Assembly where organisations that are exclusively organized for the collection of humanitarian aid are now proposed to work in hospitality or something else. So, if we have legal persons who, between the rest of the city and humanitarian aid, I'm afraid there might be not so much overlap. But if, for example, they work in catering and trade and then humanitarian aid, I'm afraid that there could be any kind of problem with that, which is still not a clear criterion for NGOs that are generally good. So, this debate is still going on. We haven't worked that out yet. And that's something I'm not sure is the best solution. It can certainly be operational. Certainly, this solution can offer a greater number of providers to say, or the humanitarian aid collector in this regard, is good. However, I think that we need to fence ourselves a little more than that provision that says that these funds are then managed in a special account, etc., so that there is no doubt that the tragedies and needs of others are actually being misused. And it seems to me that it may actually be the biggest mission of this law. Because our people have shown that they're always ready to jump in on those who need to, in situations where even the state schedules, don't do what the social one should do. And that is why I think that these provisions, and in that sense I also support the proposal that counterpart Doric said on behalf of the HNS club about these criminal provisions, agree. I'm saying something that's good, something that's being supported to just prevent abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51962	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51963	My colleague Lugarić, you have opened a very important story related to humanitarian actions, humanitarian concerts, etc. I think we may have paid insufficient attention to that in this debate. Because I certainly agree with you to define them very closely. The second in the humanitarian action by me, everyone involved in it must participate voluntarily and without any compensation, and give space and participate and everything else, so that each lip charged from the ticket is a pure gain in favour of the one whose action is intended. When it's the only time... This is how a losing concert is organised, hell with loss, with the aim of paying clearly to those who were going to pay in advance. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51964	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51965	I thank Mr. Vice President, I welcome here the present State Secretary, Doric Nikolic, as I welcome the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to make one such as to say humanitarian law, so humanitarian aid law. He's important to himself, he's even from a health point of view, if we could say so important, because if we look at the definition of health, then it's not just absence, sickness and impotence, but also a lot of social well-being, so the people they need should go out in this way and in that way and actually society as a whole. I would also like to welcome most of the speeches of my colleagues who spoke affirmatively about this law, and I would only refer to the parts of some of them who, within this law, have actually delivered their opinion that this law cannot possibly be a substitution for or substitute for the inaction of institutions. I understand that they actually happen in society occasionally certain failures, but of course this is not the law and it cannot be observed in that light, because there is simply no society, there are no institutions that can predict everything can be... These and those, adverse events, or major groups or individuals. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, if we look at democratic societies, if we look at the most developed societies, social societies, they have a very developed system when it comes to providing humanitarian aid, there is therefore no such claim. On the other hand, this law reminds me of another law we've passed here, I think with pride, so it's the Voluntary Law. Unfortunately, Croatia did not have one tradition of volunteering, although we do have in, in fact in the roots, these Christian roots of giving as a basis, etc., and so, this one act volunteering, when we see around the world what people do, in which way children are raised, so already since primary school, high school, studies are included in certain state institutions, hospitals, in many others and are available to people regardless of their time and do not look at wages, etc., then of course it is a big thing like a big thing and this law. I support the two opinions presented here, from here by accident two colleagues sitting in front of me, colleague Lukacic, who said that Article 3 in paragraph 2 should also be added to that anti-discrimination provision relating to disability, as well as what counterpart Shuica said when she said it was very important to publicly publish the results of the actions. It doesn't matter, it's not just about ensuring purity in all of this, it's about me saying and promoting these actions in my own way. So when people see that the results have been achieved, then the second time it will encourage them to do and yet additional effort accordingly. I would even trace this proposal, or if it is, if there is room in this law to suggest that it may be designed in a certain way, here I do not know it can be regulated by law to recognise those who resist, who, who make a significant contribution to such activities. It's just that I think we should come up with a confession that's actually going to be a confession for those that society should recognize. It's simple, it's supposed to be a matter of person's status and we can't look at it at all, because otherwise we don't know, and it's so often interpreted that when people reach out to such activities, they don't know how to look at them as some Pharisees, and I don't know what. So it's good to do good, and it's good to recognize it. I would conclude my presentation, therefore, by finding that, according to what my colleague Capara said, we are inheriting the Christian tradition of giving and helping people in need. Unfortunately, we have a great war experience, in which we were in the opportunity of those who received help, but also those who offered help. This experience of course can be shared with others, and it can benefit everyone. In the end, we all meet in person with a life that is what it is and we all were either in need, or we are in need, or one day we will be in need. So no one is exempt from the situation to provide help or to receive it. At the end of that folk, once I think about it here, I'm going to repeat it, which says more of a lack of help than a thousand kunas of compassion. So I also support the government once again and a proposal for this law that I truly hold to an important step in regulating relations in humanitarian aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51966	Thank you. Two replicas. Mr. Jerko Roshin's first representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51967	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bagaric, a colleague of Nikolic's. I would just like to highlight in my replica a segment that seems extremely important to me, which is the result of action, the result of action and the finding that there was no profit in that action in any way, although the humanitarian effect remains. It is true that many humanitarian actions are taking place in order to earn some, some fee, some profit on the way to a humanitarian goal. However, it is often skipped that if we have collected a million kunas in action for a good deed, that it should add all the values of those who participated in the collection of that million, who have also made an organised concert or do not know what kind of action, who have given their time, their effort, and who are actually a much greater humanitarian work in the amount of money than what the effect of the money itself is to some end. In this way, those who make money on this road would distinguish themselves from those who make money on that road and give themselves. Unfortunately, however, something else is happening because of it, in a negative sense. To come here today, you give someone a million kunas, a million euros to someone, society will often react to you because you're not living alone, or they don't want to give up something, they'll suspect you of that million of yours, and then they'll tell you you wouldn't let you have it. Who knows why he gives that money, who knows what's behind it and how it's washed. So if the humanitarian work happens in a way that doesn't commercialize, so I don't say it, I've made so much money, so I'm practically selling my charity, then things could be a lot better going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51968	Replication response, Mr. Representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I completely agree with you and just, when I was talking about, and in a certain way encouraging and raising people for the need to participate in these actions, I was talking about giving people a confession. So I'm not saying that people do it for recognition, but if someone does good and if they give up time and I don't know, money, etc., then it's just human to admit it. And what you said, in my opinion, is quite true, too. I think, I don't know, that one system needs to be built in which people will want to be at the club of those who will donate and that's why there won't be... how you said and put under some doubt what, where they got it, how so, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After all, if it will make it easier for someone in some situations, even if their conscience should happen, for it is good to do good again. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51970	And the replica, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you said that many people who provide humanitarian aid consider the Pharisees, under quotes, yes, because they do not do so honestly, etc. But this law has just been passed because there have been different abuses, and unfortunately it has covered up all the good that we have seen what humanitarian organizations do. On the basis of what my colleague Doric was discussing, I think, however, that in this law, these penalties should be tightened for those who abuse humanitarian aid. In fact, a humanitarian organization cannot be abolished, but such organisations that earn in this way can simply be banned for 5, 10 years from doing so. It's simple to ban them for a certain period. Because, as counterpart Doric said, we who drive wrong, drive fast, or someone drunk drives, the driver's license is lifted. You can't drive for a certain period. So, then such organisations, I think, should really be forbidden that a certain period should not be involved in humanitarian activity and then it will not come to the fact that others who work fairly consider themselves Pharisees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51972	Madam representative of the Sun's Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. Well, we've heard a lot of suggestions and what's expected, I can see that you're recording it, too, so that by the second reading, it'll be arranged in this law. In any case today, we are talking about a proposal for a Law on humanitarian aid which defines organisations primarily involved in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, and various forms of humanitarian aid and target groups in line with existing needs in society. At first, I would like to stress that the Croats, we must admit, are still very sensitive to providing humanitarian assistance. Not only in the country, we are also witnessing humanitarian aids outside our country, although this law defines only humanitarian aid in the area of the Republic of Croatia. According to the proposal, the collection and provision of humanitarian aid would allow registered, domestic and foreign non-profit legal persons, i.e. legal persons enrolled in the relevant register in Croatia. I'm not gonna repeat what's already been said several times. What I want to say is that it is a good thing that, as defined by inspection supervision under the proposal, public administration offices in the county will be carried out towards the head office of the legal person, and administrative supervision would be carried out by the ministry, of course, in charge of social care affairs. I also agree with what is said today, that the most important thing is that humanitarian aid comes to those who are meant to be. And of course, unfortunately, we've witnessed it many times that it wasn't so that humanitarian aid, mostly money, didn't end up in the hands of those to whom it was intended. So, according to this, I expect the additions to the second reading. The Ministry would continue to keep records of legal persons for the territory of the State, while the competent offices would keep records of the solutions issued in the field of their jurisdiction. What is a newspaper in the general provisions of the law is the part that speaks about anti-discrimination because it regulates that humanitarian aid is provided to all victims and socially sensitive groups regardless of race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, age or other characteristics. I would not like anything to be generalised after our debate today, and so it may be possible to reduce the sensitivity of the Croatian people to provide humanitarian assistance because not everyone is equal and not all of them are involved in humanitarian aid or in the movement of humanitarian actions to do so solely for some personal benefit. How important humanitarian aid is, unfortunately, the tragedies that remind us of the needy, the humanity in society, and the community to show themselves, regardless of the part of the world in which disaster or tragedy took place. It is difficult to look into the eyes of children seeking help, to see suffering, to see despair and suffering, and it is something that calls us again to solidarity and to provide help. Legal provisions, of course, will shape ways, and we show that human dimension when it is necessary regardless of the extent of tragedy. Because we can't call the tragedy smaller or bigger or whatever kind of help we need. I therefore support the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51974	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51975	Here I am going to continue with the question practically. My colleague Glavak told me who the humanitarian aid was intended for. I think it is something that arouses the interest, i.e. the need for a more detailed definition, especially with my colleague Klaric I exchanged a few words on the subject of why something would not be humanitarian aid. In fact, when we talk about humanitarian aid, we see a man as the goal of our help. So I'm asking if humanitarian aid is all something that seems to have a purpose, not to mention human beings? Is that helping abandoned dogs, or don't I know, puppies or something? Is the same part of this category or are we staying in the domain of the word humanitarian, that it is actually about man alone as a subject of our interest? I don't know how much it is, it would be a good language to define, but I don't know how much in legal terms it has its weight and importance? Because, as he says, the sensitive groups and the objectives towards which humanitarian aid is going should define what they are? Of course, without the prejudices that you have rightly spoken about, but to distinguish a man from something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51976	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's what I can do, I think I'll agree with my colleague Rosina and colleague Klaric, she said something in part, so maybe it wouldn't be bad to define this, but I think this applies to the provision of social services in the community, so at least it stands, but there it is. The proposal is here, so we'll see if it comes in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51978	Final review State Secretary Dorica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51979	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank all the ladies and gentlemen who participated in this debate on the humanitarian aid law. Well, as we said in the 2003 law, he was solving a humanitarian aid problem on the trail of what you said here at the debates because we witnessed the humanitarian aid situation at the time was a decade earlier, let's say a normal thing in the Republic of Croatia. It was raining, let's say from all sides, then it was realized that the law should sort out certain things that we didn't really have in mind. So here, now after so many years, it was realized that in fact humanitarian actions in that sense, as they were before, of course no more, humanitarian aid is quite different today than it was before I don't know how many years ago, especially not just with us but in the whole world. And the fact that humanitarian aid today is the most implemented by humanitarian actions that all of us have witnessed, so we felt that the new law should bring these things closer to order. I am pleased that in the debate, it proved independently of clubs, so that you mentioned those articles that we have actually had great dilemmas and that were actually written in this Bill proposal after a lot of debates on the working group and in the bodies of the state administration that looked back on this Law and made observations, so that it is seen that in fact I said at the beginning, all of what you will notice here we will adopt until the second reading. Some of the things you mentioned here we thought that we could enter a rule that would follow this law, but if most people think that we need to settle it by law, maybe we can solve it by law, and then eventually the rule doesn't, or we can solve it by law, and then it'll be easier for us to act. Especially when it comes to these criminal sanctions and violations. We have dealt with the violations and sanctions that we generally have in most of Croatia's legislation with the fact that we have tightened them a little bit, I now see, some previously considered in the working group that they are too sharp, you now think that they are too mild, so we felt the same way in the ministry that they should be sharpened, but somehow the attitude was within the working group that this is an average, and we also think that there should be an increase in those sanctions, and as far as this is concerned by what many of you have said, as far as VAT and Article 15 is concerned, I must say that this cannot be regulated by this Act and the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on this Act was such that, in fact, in this Article 15, we can mention the relief of those who are regulated by another law. Otherwise, as for humanitarian actions and humanitarian aid, we must say that we have watched in the preparation of this Law to see what we would put inside, as we are heading towards the European Union, to see how other legislations do so, and how humanitarian aid or action is being resolved in other countries. I can say that most of them are not regulated, so these are old countries that are already all the pains of humanitarian problems and collecting, money laundering and everything that has happened they already have behind them, all the countries have gone through it, remember only Biafra and collecting and the Red Cross and what happened with the flour then, etc. Therefore, most are not regulated, but I must say that most countries have far more than the population and that those countries that have the highest GDP and those countries that have the best regulated social rights have the most humanitarian actions. It just shows that no society is ever enough social or humanitarian, so that there will be no more room for humanitarian action. And what you mention here when certain instruments are collected for certain hospitals, be assured it also happens from Finland to the United States. So, it's never in that area so hard, we asked that, especially last week when we had a meeting with the Austrian Ministry of Labour and Social Care, we asked them how they handle it and how much abuse they have, and if it's also being collected they said that, because actually health is one area where from day to day prices, drugs and appliances change and grow that simply no society, and neither can the richest step forward with what people need. So, humanitarian actions will still be and we will until the second reading appreciate all your remarks, and you will be able to see when the second reading comes that we have observed all your remarks. Clearly those who are not in the jurisdiction of our law, we will not be able to but we will propose to the Ministry of Finance what you said and as far as VAT is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51980	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51981	Eight, the draft Law on humanitarian aid, was first reading, P.Z. No. 525. The draft act shall be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the next conclusion, firstly, of the draft Law on humanitarian aid. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant until the final draft of the law has been drawn up. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The result? This draft Law on humanitarian aid was adopted by the majority of votes, 110 votes for and 1 abstention, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51982	We are going to the next point - Final bill on amendments to the Law on flammable fluids and gases, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 529. The Proposer is the Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, Internal Policy and National Security, European Integration and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session, the amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal, please welcome state secretaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51983	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You have before you the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on flammable fluids and gases. The law on flammable fluids and gases entered into force on 5 January 96. The implementation of the Law on flammable liquids and gases so far contained discrepancies with the new newspaper in the law on spatial planning and construction, which concerned the procedures for issuing a local authorisation in which the procedure is directly managed by the competent authority for spatial planning and construction through joint insight into the ideas of projects with representatives of the MUP and other state bodies, i.e. police administrations, depending on the competences which determine whether the prescribed conditions of location and technical solutions in connection with fire protection and technological explosions are met in the idea projects. The law also proposes to harmonise the procedure relating to the issue of a local authorisation as well as the procedure relating to new legal provisions in the issue of a decision on the confirmation of the main project, i.e. the issue of a building authorisation. It will also simplify the authorisation procedure for storage or for the use of an incendiary and or gas plant in competent police administrations in cases where no local permit and approval of a project or other building law is issued under construction regulations. The law should also be brought into line with the law on the gas market and the network rules of the gas, distribution system. This applies in particular to the obligations and procedure of the distribution system operator in the control of the correctness and impermeability of the gas installations in order to raise the safety of the use of gas installations to a higher safety level. The law will also correct certain shortcomings and irregularities in the definition of certain concepts as well as in the way of recognising the application of recognised rules of technical practice relating to the design, construction and use of buildings and plants for flammable liquids and gases in developed countries, thus avoiding possible doubts in the interpretation and implementation of the law. The law further regulates the training of workers to work with flammable fluids and gases as well as the responsibility for effective implementation of training. In addition, the law will regulate the application of European standards relating to the property of the reaction, fire and fire resistance in construction, as well as the necessary evidence of these properties on buildings and facilities for flammable liquids and gases. If the law is adopted in this form, we will make additional adjustments to the acquis and remove certain shortcomings that we have seen in the application of the law after its adoption, and the Government also accepts the amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51984	Thank you. Legislative committees? Environmental Protection Committee, chairman of the committee of Ms. Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. At its 35th session held on 15 April 2010, the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on flammable fluids and gases with the Final Proposal of the Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Parliament by the Act of 24 March 2010. The procedure for the adoption of this law shall be subject to an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Bill on Amendments to the Law on flammable fluids and gases with the Final Proposal of the Law as an interested working body. In the opening explanation of the legislative proposal, Mr. Zarko Katić, Director of the Legal and Inspection Affairs Administration, gave a brief overview of the situation and described the news that bring about the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on flammable liquids and gases. He specifically pointed out that the old law hasn't been amended since '96. years since it came into force, and a large number of amendments and sublegal acts have been adopted in the meantime. It stressed that these amendments facilitate the obtaining of the necessary permits from the area of construction, in the field of activity, to simultaneously increase the safety of the use of gas installations through provisions which allow the possibility of denying the use of gas installations if they do not meet the prescribed standards. In the Republic of Croatia today we have 41 operators authorised to deliver natural gas, and 10 operators for the delivery of ingested oil gas. In view of the above, it is very important that there is a quality legal basis for carrying out activities. The law is in line with European Union legislation through 5 points, and there will be no additional financial requirements for its application to the state budget. The debate has shown concern that the application of European standards only on the day of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union will allow construction conditions to be issued in the meantime and to carry out activities related to the law in question under today's applicable standards which may not be in line with new European standards over only a few years. After the debate was held, the Committee on Environmental Protection decided unanimously with 10 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of laws on amendments and additions to the Law on flammable fluids and gases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51986	Thank you. The Committee on Legislatives, the chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljavnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51987	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 89th session held on 14 April 2010, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on flammable fluids and gases with the Final Proposal for the Law, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 24 March 2010. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. The following amendment shall also be submitted to the text of the final draft law. For the purposes of Article 10(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013, the following definitions shall apply: Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51988	Thank you. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, European Integration. I'm opening a debate. Club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51989	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is in some way the continuation of our debate since yesterday when we talked about harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the European Union and as we can see at this final stage, if I may call it, there must be a fine adjustment of all those laws that regulate a wider area, as well as in this case. In fact, the law on flammable fluids and gases that is now in effect came into effect in '96. A year. Clearly, in the meantime, we have brought many of our laws in this area into line with European directives, and this now requires that we make an adequate shift in changes and complement a number of other laws, including the one that is on our table today. First of all, the Law on flammable fluids is not in line with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, with the Law on the Gas Market, as well as a series of sublegal acts that we need to change in this respect. I'll just mention some of them, it's the Regulation on fuel supply stations, the Inflammatory Liquids Regulation, the Regulation on motor vehicle supply systems with pressured natural gas, etc., etc. The dispute with regard to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction relates to the procedure for issuing a local authorisation. In fact, the process is directly managed by the competent body for spatial planning and construction through common vision in ideas projects with representatives of the Ministry of Interior, or police administration. They determine what? They shall determine whether the prescribed conditions of location and technical solutions related to fire protection and technological explosions are met in the idea projects. This bill proposes to harmonise the procedure relating to the issue of a local authorisation, as well as the procedure relating to new legal provisions when issuing a decision on the confirmation of the main project, i.e. the issue of a building authorisation. Similarly, it is proposed to simplify the authorisation procedure for storage, i.e. for the use of the plant for flammable liquids or gases in competent police administrations. Furthermore, the law needs to be brought into line with the Gas Market Act that I mentioned earlier. Clearly there are rules in this area that should also be changed. This applies in particular to the obligations and procedure of the distribution system operator in the control of the correctness and impermeability of the gas installations in order to raise the safety of the use of gas installations to a higher level. The law will correct certain shortcomings and irregularities in the definition of certain concepts as well as in the way of recognising the application of recognised rules of technical practice relating to the design, construction and use of buildings and plants for flammable liquids or gases. The law further regulates the training of workers to work with flammable fluids and gases, as well as the responsibility for effective implementation of training. This is what we find very important at the HNS club. This is one flaw that has been recorded so far and certainly that in training we must make the employees clear for working in this area we must do much, much more. In addition, the law will regulate the application of European standards relating to the properties, reactions of certain materials to fire and fire resistance in construction, as well as the necessary evidence of these properties on buildings and facilities for flammable liquids and gases. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, this is about accepting European standards, European standards and European behaviour in this area. It should not only be adopted by this law, but should be implemented as soon as possible and implemented in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51990	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51991	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. And we think that the law should be adopted not only as soon as possible but also put into practice because it solves an extremely important, complex and dangerous, potentially dangerous situation. So the law makes a series of simplifications seem. The localisation process, obtaining a location permit, etc., shall specify the obligation of the distribution system operator and even the method of testing the gas installations. However, there are certain obstacles here, because regarding Article 11 which states that the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union on the properties of reaction to fire and fire resistance to construction listed in the regulations laid down by the Law on flammable liquids and gases are laid down according to the Croatian norms adopted by European norms, which demonstrate according to specific regulations. But at the moment when the European norms are accepted then more Croatian norms are no longer valid, i.e. European norms become Croatian and the standard that is accepted is always valid. My question, Mr. Secretary of State, is that until the moment of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, many of these standards are already being taken over. Therefore, this is the expression of Article 11 that a period cannot actually be studied because these European norms have already become Croatian, and you say that the survey will only be conducted from the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership. As is known, Article 73 of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement Croatia has undertaken to accept among other European norms because we must have a functional quality infrastructure that includes accreditation and standardisation. Therefore, it is also very strange, unacceptable and Article 5(4), which states that the examination of the gas installation by the operator next to the operator may be carried out by an authorised or legal or natural person or by a consumer expert on which the test report is issued. Then you prescribed the appearance of this test report which, I dare say, is almost entirely in line with the requirements of international standard 17025 for accreditation of test laboratories. So the question arises why you did not simply prescribe in Article 4(5) that the examination of the gas installation must be carried out by an accredited service, an accredited laboratory. Namely, the only accreditation as I said in accordance with Article 73, quoted earlier. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement shall guarantee a sufficient level of competence of the test laboratories. So it's in accordance with international practice, it's according to the government of the Republic of Croatia. Because in a series of laws so far, it has been conditioned that test laboratories that conduct certain tests remember asbestos, noise, radiation protection, water control, genetically modified food must be accredited. Therefore, if the government's practice of testing is to be entrusted to laboratories that must simply or by services that must prove their level of competence why the Government once and for all does not adopt one statement and in every law, regardless of whether it was brought by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture or the Interior or any other, does not condition the same terms and conditions and thus creates a regulated legal environment. Let us even remember that the certification of the electronic signature service is conditional on accreditation by the Croatian accreditation agency, and in the end two days ago, a chapter closed – the freedom of movement of goods that regulates it and actually gives the highest assessment of our quality infrastructure is just normisation and accreditation. Therefore, since it is potentially very dangerous situations simply of the person, the laboratories, the bodies conducting the examination of the gas installations must prove their competence, must have moderate equipment. Finally, this equipment is measured in accredited laboratories. Otherwise, we can't trust if it's right. Here are these few remarks and appeals to the Ministry to consider that this is really correct we will be happy to support this law because it really is a law that really implements harmonisation and simplifys complex procedures related to flammable fluids and gases used in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51992	Thank you. The HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Mato Biljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51993	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on flammable fluids and gases with the Final Proposal of the Law. The law on flammable fluids and gases entered into force on 5 January '96. the year on which the following implementing rules have been adopted: fuel, incendiary fluid Regulation, inlet gas Regulation and the Regulation on engine and vehicle supply system with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] natural gas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the past implementation of the Law on flammable fluids and gases, there were discrepancies with the newspaper in the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. They relate to the procedure for issuing local permits directly managed by competent authorities for spatial planning, construction through joint insight into an idea project with representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, or police administrations. The law proposes to harmonise the procedure relating to the issue of a local authorisation as well as the procedure relating to new legal provisions when issuing a decision on the confirmation of the main project, i.e. the issue of construction provisions. It will also simplify the procedures for the authorisation of the warehouse, i.e. for the use of an incendiary liquid or gas plant in the competent police administration in the event that no local building permits and building certificates are issued under construction regulations. The law corrects the provisions of inadequacy and indetermination in the definition of certain concepts. In fact, over 20 defined terms could so far have been interpreted on an arbitrary basis by this law on flammable fluids and gases so that there will be no arbitrary interpretation. This law further regulates the training of workers with flammable fluids and gases as well as the responsibility of those who educate them. This law introduces the application of European standards to... to a construction fire. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law hasn't been amended since '96. the year he entered into force, and in the meantime, a large number of amendments, sublegal acts were adopted. This amendment makes it easier to obtain the necessary permits from the area of construction and the area of activity, while at the same time increasing the security of gas use. It should be pointed out that in the Republic of Croatia today there are 41 operators authorised to deliver natural gas and 10 operators for the delivery of buried oil gas. First of all, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51994	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51995	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. On the agenda we have a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on flammable fluids and gases with the Final Proposal of the Law. This law on flammable fluids was passed by this Assembly in '95. years and under this law, several regulations have been adopted on its application. Why are we today bringing amendments and additions to this law? In order to bring it into line with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Law on the Gas Market. When it comes to harmonising with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, it primarily refers to the procedure for issuing a local authorisation, as well as the procedure for issuing a solution to confirm the main project. This is important for reasons because the existing procedure for issuing local permits is being accelerated and the waiting time for it is shortened. In this way, the state administration, i.e. local self-government units, will be faster and more efficient and all to the satisfaction of potential investors who once and unwarrantedly wait for individual permits and solutions. It's about the Construction Act. As far as the gas market law is concerned, the amendments to this law relate to gas distributors in the Republic of Croatia, which are about 50, which are concerned with increasing the safety of the use of gas installations, and which is again in line with European norms and standards. Also, these changes and additions talk about training and training of workers who come into contact with flammable fluids and gases. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, I will support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51996	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51997	Thank you very much. Only perhaps an explanation to one Mr. Franolic, as regards Article 4(5). Namely, the MUP has concluded an agreement with the Croatian Accreditation Agency and the agreement has been practically worked out by the Agency on behalf of the MUP under these new relations referred to in Article 4(5), further clarified in paragraph 8. As regards Article 11, which you have asked the question that it may be unclear about what is being applied, a transitional period has been set for laboratories that still have to comply with the norms that the Croatian Bureau of Standards has incorporated into the Croatian legal system, but in the laboratory they are not yet fully prepared to comply with all EU standards, and therefore this one transitional period has been left for all entities under this law to be able to adapt in time and, with the date of entry into the Republic of Croatia's accession to the EU, to be ready to implement and accept European standards. Anyway, here's thank you very much for this debate. I believe that this law will indeed contribute to facilitating all those business processes that are being implemented in the Republic of Croatia, especially under the Construction Act, which may have been hampered by the law so far because of its inconsistencies and certain shortcomings in certain situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51998	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u51999	10th, final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on flammable liquids and gases. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 529. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by Legislative Committee and MP Zdenko Franic. During the debate, the proposer's representative adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft of the law in accordance with Article. 169. Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted by MP Zdenko Franic. Mr. Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52000	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, art. 4th century 5 does not apply to the testing or assessment of the conformity of the product with certain norms, nor to the authorisation procedures for issuing conformity regulations with those standards, but to the examination of the correctness of the gas installations in use by the distribution system operators as governed by the Gas Market Act as well as the network rules of the distribution system. This paragraph shall allow an operator to transfer that authority to a third party who fulfils the conditions laid down in the operator's Regulation and to whom the MAP shall grant consent and whose competence the operator shall assess for what it is appropriate. The third party's assessment of training can be transferred to the Croatian accreditation agency according to its own decisions. The adoption of this amendment would create additional financial costs in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52001	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52002	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. In the amendment, I provided for a deadline of 5 years for these users, i.e. service providers, to adjust their system of accreditation. Accreditation is a system of proving competence for conducting certain tests and methods and it is the only mechanism that testing laboratories can actually prove to be doing their job properly. It is a very responsible business that can have unconceived consequences and the fact is that the government has been asking for accreditation for a series of tests lately and I see no reason why this case would also stand down. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52003	Thank you. We'll vote by raising our hands. Who is for the amendment submitted by Mr. Zdenko Franic? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on flammable liquids and gases. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of the vote 106 votes for, 2 abstentions and one against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52004	We move to the next point - - Proposal for a Regulation on the internal organisation of the Office of the Commission for a Decision on a Conflict of Interest Proposer: The Committee for a Decision on a Conflict of Interest has submitted this proposal to the Croatian Parliament for a preliminary consent under the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Conduct of Obligation. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. The government has delivered its opinion. Commission President Mate Kacan will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52005	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me, in short, to explain the proposal for a regulation on the internal structure of the Committee's Office for Decision on a conflict of interest. In order to combat corruption more effectively, to improve the legal and institutional framework for the effective and systematic control of corruption, and to ensure greater independence of the Commission's work on conflict-of-interest decisions, and regarding the envisaged objectives and measures of the action plan with the anti-corruption strategy, it is necessary to carry out the independence of the expert commission service and to strengthen the professional administrative support of the work of the commission by adopting a regulation on the internal organisation of the Office of the Commission for the Decision on the conflict of interest. Article 16(5) The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties is prescribed that the Commission shall have its own expert service established to carry out professional tasks in the work of the Commission, as well as administrative and technical tasks, whose exercise allows for the regular and uninterrupted operation of the commission. The adoption of a regulation on the internal organisation of the Office of the Commission, with the prior consent of the Croatian Parliament, constitutes a constitutional act of detaching the Commission's office from the professional service of the Croatian Parliament, which would be an act of full independence of the Commission's offices, which has so far been completely independent in the decision-making and decision-making process. On 17 February 2010, the Committee for the Decision on Conflict of Interest at its 11th session reached a unanimous conclusion on the establishment of a proposal for a regulation on the internal organisation of the Office of the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest, and in accordance with Article 16(7) of the Law, it referred the same Croatian Parliament to the previous consent. The Internal Design Regulation of the Expert Service of the Commission shall regulate the internal structure and mode of work of the professional service, establish the jobs and description of the jobs, the exact number of civil servants, the professional and other conditions necessary for the schedule of posts and the systematicisation of the work in the Commission's office. The Commission’s professional service’s own name is laid down in Article 20(3). The law on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, which is the Office of the Commission. The 2008 action plan in the anti-corruption strategy, with the aim of increasing the scope of jobs, envisioned a staff reinforcement for 4 new staff of the commission's office, with the aim of professional administrative support in the work of the commission. Therefore, a regulation on the internal organisation of the Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest provides for exactly 8 jobs. The regulation describes the work that officials will be doing in the commission's office, so I wouldn't be listing them here again. As for the financial resources for the work of the commission, it will be ensured by the redistribution of already provided funds from the position of the Croatian Parliament, at the position of the Office of the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest. The Commission will also ask the General Affairs Office of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to carry out financial and budgetary, accounting and similar tasks for the purposes of the Commission's office, as has already been done for the National Election Commission and in accordance with Article. 1st and 2nd. Regulations on the General Affairs Office of the Croatian Parliament and of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I would like to point out that, in the transitional and final provisions of the proposed Regulation, it is envisaged that the established officers will continue to work on the Commission's work as a result of the experience gained and the education of specific and professional tasks from the Commission's work and that any further completion of the intended posts will be carried out solely by relocating, i.e. on the basis of an internal advert to existing civil servants for the purpose of prohibiting new admissions to the state service, in accordance with the Government's decision of the Republic of Croatia, and that there will be no additional costs in this respect. Thank you all for your attention and please give your previous consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52006	Thank you. The chairman of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Commission, representatives of the Government. 7 years have passed since the founding of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and the establishment of the Commission for Decision on Conflict of Interest. And today, the Croatian Parliament is laying down a rule that would make this body stand alone and independent of the government. So much for the government's desire that a body designed, created and legally designed to be a preventive anti-corruption body leads to independence. We were really effective in creating conditions in order to act on corruption preventively, for 7 years. Secondly, what I want to say on behalf of the club, criminal responsibility does not eliminate conflict of interest. She, however, does not remove any damage, nor restores social relations, she is merely the revenge of the powerful. And the commission had the aim and should continue to aim to control, on behalf of the public and before the public, the work of politics and politicians whether their duty to manage public goods and public interests is achieved in the public interest and not to associate their duty with personal or group private interests. Given that in the previous term of office of the HDZ, the parliamentary majority, listening to the wishes and needs of their then president, Ivo Sanader, died the work of the commission and gave the commission as a sign of power to beaten that they could find some sanctions of 10 thousand kuna, which is certainly the majority of those who were in conflict of interest or carrying out a reckless obligation to subscribe to the public their status, material status or, God forbid, by carrying out a public duty to come into conflict with public interests, most of them gladly accept the penalty of 10 thousand kuna not to expose themselves to the public court. Although political public service is the most important court of the public. So, of course, the SDP club will support the independence, formal independence of the commission by adopting a Regulation on the separation of the commission's service from the parliamentary service. So he won't be under the working supervision of the secretary and president of the Parliament. However, in order for the commission to be truly independent, I will return to what we have been saying, and I think it is now necessary to say, that it is very important that the members of the commission are not dependent on politics. If the commission's task is to control the parliamentary representatives on behalf of the public, which is his job, it is his job ex-legislator, by law, then it is very difficult to expect that these parliamentary representatives will rise above their interests to protect their position and position as their colleague, at least in practice it was. So, we need to return to the debate whether the purpose of the commission is in punishment or in preventive action? And is the independence of the commission manifested or allows or will it be achieved by establishing a special service or by detached members of the commission who decide to conflict of interest? So, not to be too long, the SDP club will, of course, support the adoption of a regulation that, at least at the formal level after 7 years, it is certainly possible to say that whoever manages public goods must forget the private interest, personal interest, group interest or interest of the political party, it is not possible to ensure that in the commission most of them have a ruling and on that majority of the buildings confirm conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52008	Thank you. The HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52009	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Committee, representative of the government. Here we heard after 7 years, the commission should be left alone, although I think the commission works this well but clearly in order to reduce corruption, in which we all swear, it is good that the commission is set aside to move under the umbrella of the Croatian Parliament. It is clear that the desire of both the Government and us to be zero tolerance towards corruption, that the legal and institutional framework is a systematic control of corruption as well as ensuring full independence of the Commission's work on conflict of interest, there is a need to carry out the independence of the professional service, but we are talking here today, above all, about employees. Namely, here is the president himself, said that according to the proposal, there should be 8 employees, so the head of the Commission's Office, one executive, one secretary of the commission, one advisor in the Commission's office, three executives, one executive and one expert reference officer in the Commission's office. Just a little bit for comparison to see how our neighbors from our former country do it. I can tell you that in Serbia, for example, they have an Anti-Corruption Agency of 59 employees, of which 9 are in the conflict-solving department of interest. In Montenegro 12 in the Commission for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, in Slovenia 23 in the Commission as a whole, the Commission prevents corruption, but 8 in the sector to prevent conflicts of interest. In the BIH, they have 15 in the section for the implementation of the Law on Conflict of Interest, in Macedonia they have a commission again and it is part of that commission again with 9 employees, and in Kosovo they also have 35 whole committee 12 in conflict of interest and the publication of the property of officials. Speaking of work or regulations but a little bit of work over the past few years, I wouldn't mention it, but my colleague, Leko, was encouraged, it should be said that the story began in 2004. There have been 26 reports of conflicts of interest, 27 proposals and 14 other acts, a total of 67 and a total of 67 undetermined cases, so no single case has been taken. Here's what Mr. Kapraljevic as chairman of the commission confirmed. In 2005, there were 66 undetermined cases or 15 decisions and 14 opinions, so a total of 29 completed, 66 unworked. In 2006. A total of 24 opinions were also taken by 16 decisions, with 103 outstanding items remaining. In 2007, we had 16 decisions and 8 opinions 44 pending cases. 2008 of the outstanding cases left 2 reports of conflicts of interest and 3 opinions given under the procedure, 6 decisions and 15 opinions, hence 5 cases left unfinished. And now let's look at a little bit in 2009, five reports of conflict of interest remained since 2009 and five reports of conflict of interest in the work, none of the proposals for opinions remain, but in 2009. The Commission adopted 317 decisions giving 40 opinions, giving different instructions and instructions to officials by the Rules of Procedure amending the regulations on the establishment and procedure, laying down the Proposal for a Regulation on the internal structure and procedure of the Office of the Commission for the Decision on the Conflict of Interest, the initiative for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements, the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. So, and this is proof that you can work, a team that's there, regardless of whether there are a lot of outside members who have been elected legally to the competition, I don't see that there would actually be a greater influence of the ruling over the opposition. So it was done with me to think 5 or 6 employees. The commission of the proposal is in this Regulation to increase by another 2 employees because the number of cases is really growing, the number of cases is coming, and especially what is good in this which has increased the number of requests for opinions. Which means that it can also be counterproductive, because what the request for some opinion regarding other Committees also seeks to place through the media, and that is to say give instructions to others not to come into conflict of interest. There will be conflict and there will be conflict, and I think that the Committee has a lot of work to do, but it will help to clear up the situation, namely, there have been a lot of difficult things that have happened in the past, because there have been no views, we have done this on the Committee last year, we have taken a very firm position, especially on parliamentary representatives and some of the activities that parliamentary representatives have done elsewhere in their cities and municipalities, and I don't think there will be any more problems. I agree that no matter what you say, some criminal persecution and the like, if there is a conflict of interest, and it should be done and clearly said, here's the session open, the public's interest is quite considerable, the only thing that is understandable is that the public is not too interested in the work of the Commission unless it's a matter of sound names. So we noticed that the number of journalists is much larger and remains much longer if one of these less-known names of a politician is mentioned, or if we work exclusively with the others, then after learning that there is nothing interesting for the media then leave very quickly, which is actually a pity, because it is difficult to act preventive if it is still not conveyed what we wanted to say. Here, for now, that's it. The HDZ Club will support and I believe the others will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52010	Thank you. HNS representative club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52011	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us a proposal for a regulation in the internal structure of the Office of the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest to which Croatian Parliament representatives give or do not give prior consent. We have already heard and I will repeat that this proposal regulates the internal structure and way of work of the professional service, determines jobs and descriptions of jobs, the exact number of civil servants, professional and other conditions necessary for the schedule of jobs. It is true that the 2008 Action Plan, along with the 2008 Anti-Corruption Strategy, envisions a staff reinforcement for 4 new employees as a result of an increase in the scope of jobs. It is also true that with the latest amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the behaviour of public duties in March 2009 we have deleted the provision of a law which prescribed that professional administrative and technical affairs for the purposes of the commission be carried out by the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament. I wonder, given the moment in which the country is located, whether we may have been wrong to delete this provision. Therefore, we in the CNS propose to try to find opportunities under this proposal for a smaller increase in the number of employees in the work of the Commission's Office for Decision on a conflict of interest. Here, I'll try to explain why we're suggesting something like that. In the year behind us, the commission has well or very well done business with 5 employees. It is important to note that in 2009 there was a year in which commission staff and newly elected officials had much to learn because many met for the first time with situations that could have led them or brought them into conflict of interest. We estimate that in the years to come there will be fewer and fewer such situations due to the experiences we have gained in the past and previous years, as is the increasing and more accessible possibility of information, so all forms of electronic and written media. And finally let me mention my personal case. Unfortunately, because of the non-network of institutions that take care of it, I have come to the media as an official who is in conflict of interest because of not handing over the property card. I handed over my property card in 2007 as the elected representative of the Croatian Parliament and by choice for the Mayor of Oroslavlja, I did not consider it necessary to re-deliver the property card to a team that did not have any change on that card. I've come to the media because of my lack of networking as a person who has failed to fulfil her legally intended obligation. With the introduction of the OIB, I hope that no one in the next procedure will be in such a situation. Finally, members and members, representatives of the HNS Club will give prior consent to the proposal for a regulation in the internal structure of the Office of the Commission for the Decision of Conflict of Interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52012	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52013	Excuse me. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Committee for Decision-making on the conflict of interest, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us today, the proposal for a regulation on the internal organisation of the Office of the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest, which was the basis of the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, has been submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Committee for the Decision on the Conflict of Interest and to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a positive opinion. Although it may seem to us at first glance that this previous consent to an act governing the internal structure and way of working of the Office of the Commission to decide the conflict of interest is a mere technical nature, I would still like to point out that this regulation makes further empowerment of the Croatian State institutions in the fight against corruption at all levels. And for that reason, I am pleased that my predecessors, or all colleagues who spoke on behalf of the clubs of parliamentary parties in the Croatian Parliament, were unanimous to support the proposal for this regulation. I don't know why my colleague, Leckie, who said this was the first time the government's ever allowed to separate the commission from the government's lap. I don't think it's ever been because this is about self-restraint of the professional service that works for the commission and which now gets the name of the Commission's Office for Decision-making on the conflict of interest. The only thing so far is that the people who have done these jobs, so the commission's professional affairs, have been employees of the Assembly's Professional Service. Well, that's why my colleague Leco wasn't in the government's jurisdiction. The fact that this High House in 2008 adopted a Anti-Corruption Strategy. The strategy was followed by an action plan. This action plan this year in March 2010, the government revised the action plan, reduced it in number of measures, and increased it according to the number of taxpayers who must act and must be involved in the implementation of the Action Plan of the Anti-Corruption Strategy and thus contributed to further strengthening the Commission as well. A colleague of Hursa said that we may have made a mistake when we deleted from the law the provision that employees of the Assembly's professional service no longer do so. I do not share that opinion because I think that this way is also simply stronger empowerment and full independence of the Office of the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest, where they are no longer even under the authority of the Professional Service of the Parliament, and in that part I agree with what my colleague Leko said. I think that this proposed number, which was drawn in the first action plan, is the number of employees increasing by 4, is true that last year the professional service was increased and in 2009, there are five employees and I am in favour of staying in this proposal that the proposal for a rulebook says it is eight employees. I'll tell you why. So here is the revised action plan for the commission, so the Commission's office, together with representatives of the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Justice, is doing education by county and not only for officials but also for officials. And I think clearly that education should be sustained so that sensitisation and education will reduce those events in which the commission had experience last year when after the first local elections a large number of obviously new officials who have not been introduced again, although I believe that everyone who enters the political scene for themselves and their political parties who point out them should be familiar with the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties in order to meet in time those obligations laid down by the Law on officials. So here we are last month, so in March, the commission still followed the list of those officials, regardless of whether the duty behaves professionally or voluntarily at local levels, so to the units of local self-government who have not completed their basic task, which is to deliver or fulfill the property card of officials and deliver it to the Commission. It is these educations that have, in a certain way, been done in cooperation with the Commission and have already been done and which will then be implemented by the end of this year, that I hope that education of officials at local and regional levels will contribute, as well as information to the public, to a greater number of people who will be introduced, there is no justification for those who are not now, because the law exists, with the provisions of this law and that we will all be able to recognise and avoid situations that lead us to conflicts of interest together. And until then, with this number of employees, the current 5 will also be able to carry out professionally and correctly the work of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. Since the funds are intended for independence and for these employees to be located in the position of professional services of the Croatian Parliament, i.e.... The Croatian Parliament, it will be necessary to implement the reallocation of these funds and according to what the chairman of the commission said, these funds will be sufficient for this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For all of these reasons, I will support the proposal for a regulation on the internal structure of the Commission's Office for Decision on a conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52014	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He works for the public with his colleague Bilić Vardić. I think you're getting too close to understanding the concept of government. You yourself claim that the commission is self-sufficient, from whom, from the ruling both the Government and the Parliament. If that were the case, during the reign of Ivo Sanader, the ruling majority of HDZ's parliamentary majority voted on anything Ivo Sanader would say in the parliament and wish. That is why we are in such an economic crisis as today because there was no critical distance towards the government, the Prime Minister and the President of the Parliament. It is an attempt to isolate the government and parliament, from the ruling ones, and even more so is forgetting how the parliamentary majority acted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52016	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52017	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague, first of all, I don't think of what you said about the government and it's not separate and it's not a committee that's independent, but it's a professional service that's now named the Committee's Office for Decision on Conflict of Interest. My colleague, I don't agree with you, nor can I agree that the commission was not on its own. So here you are now back again and I know in previous terms that you were a prominent member of this committee and I appreciate your experience in that. I'm short, and I don't think the commission is independent. In the commission are representatives of the Croatian Parliament from parties represented here by independent persons, persons appointed as members of the commission. Therefore, the commission is so far, so you won't deny that since 2003 the commission has not been working independently, and professional services are up to this, you have the right to your own opinion, I have the right to my own opinion, let me express my opinion. Therefore, only professional services are left alone in the office by this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52018	Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I think should be said at the outset, and we should say first and foremost, what we're doing today, and especially about this particular debate that we've had so far. Namely, the need for the adoption of the Internal Design Regulation of the Commission's Office for the Decision on Conflict of Interest is found in the first row in the last amendments to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the behaviour of public officials from March 2009. Simplifiedly speaking, the amendment to the law required that the existing regulation be changed, or that we should, in this way, be given the previous opinion, i.e. the previous consent to be given today on the benches and this act and, of course, we are discussing it. In this law, the provision prescribed that professional, administrative and technical services for the purposes of the Commission itself be carried out by the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament has been deleted. And now, properly exposed, it is therefore necessary to reorganise the internal structure in a new way, more so in order to enable the Commission's decision-making office to decide on a conflict of interest, based on legal provisions, therefore as an independent professional service of the commission in the first instance, in a better way, to carry out professional and administrative and technical tasks in a better way, all with a view to further smooth work and the Commission's actions. All of this should, of course, also be taken into account under Article 16 of the Law which clearly provides that the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest has its own professional service, I repeat my professional service, which is established to carry out expert tasks in the work of the Commission, and administrative and technical affairs, which enables the Commission to act regularly. As far as the specific provisions of this Regulation are concerned, I think it is necessary to point out that the regulations are firstly governed by the internal structure and mode of work, further jobs and with the workplace description of jobs. The exact number of civil servants because it is also an obligation under this law that I have mentioned and, of course, the professional and other conditions necessary for the schedule to these, therefore, appropriate jobs. It should be pointed out from the other provisions of the Regulation itself that issues relating to posts within the Office of the Commission, relating to the Head of the Office, the Secretary of the Commission, the Adviser, the Administrative Secretary and the Expert Reference, and, to point out that the Regulation specifically elaborated issues, rights and duties of civil servants within the framework of their work or in the Commission’s own office. Of course, we have also received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in addition to this proposal, and I think it is important to highlight that segment or that passage where the Government is referred to the money that needs to be provided in the state budget, and all in the sense that this one dares to state the model as a function. Therefore, it should be pointed out that the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 did not provide the resources for the work of the Commission's offices. However, a solution should be sought, i.e. it needs to be found and I have no doubt that it will be so. Therefore, ensure the redistribution of funds from the position of the Croatian Parliament at the position of the commission's office. And finally here I would say that today is not a topic, not a item of agenda or debate or a report on the work of the commission itself, although it can be debated, but we are here as parliamentary representatives in an opportunity to discuss one rule as an act to be adopted on the basis of accepted legal solutions. And I have no doubt that this very rulebook will, therefore, not only isolate the professional service of the commission itself but in many ways condition an even better and even more quality work of the commission itself. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52020	Thank you. Two replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I just wanted to say to my colleagues that maybe we should point out throughout the story that the same number of MPs from the opposition is equal to the number of MPs from the ruling coalition. Therefore, we cannot find justification for the past years in some kind of blocking of the HDZ on the work of the commission. Here I thought that, apart from six MPs, there were five outside members, outside members of the dignitaries from whom they would not sell their name for some kind of handlifting if they were against those who clearly, openly, unequivocally expressed their views and so voted. Therefore, I think the commission has every prerequisite for good work, and I believe that there has been an earlier precondition for good work. And I'm sorry that here these past years, so before this last member of the last commission was founded, it didn't work a little better because there would be far less work now than there is. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52022	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52023	Thank you very much. So I thank my esteemed colleague Kroni here, who actually completed me in this sense my debate, because I purposely did not want to politicise about this subject and about the essence of the agenda itself. But it absolutely needs to be underlined and I agree with you that there is no possibility of any politicisation, majorisation, pressure of this or that political option because, if it is and when it comes to parliamentary representatives, therefore even if they are numerically represented equally or even equally in the committee itself. And you mentioned well-respected colleagues that respected public employees are members of this committee who certainly would not have worked themselves in the first place allowed in this sense how we had the opportunity to hear from this side of the assembly politicized or to turn the commission into a single instrument I do not know whose political will. The legal framework itself does not allow this. The people sitting in that committee are making it impossible. All sessions are public. There is a public debate on all matters and I really don't see any reason, not only for such debate but I don't see a foothold where this majorisation in a political sense would in some way come into expression for the reasons and expertise of these people and the competence of these people, and mostly for the reasons of the public. I repeat at our sessions are journalists who are very, very closely following not only the points of the agenda but also our discussions so that here and in this sense I support all of this esteemed colleague you have explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52024	And Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52025	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, Mr Tomljanovic was told that there is also a need to intervene in the rebalancing process, etc., to provide more specifically adequate resources for the work of this commission. In fact, I think that with this present proposal, therefore, the Internal Design Regulation, by providing additional resources, but also by filling this service, we will also ensure the continued effective work of this commission. Namely, the data read here today clearly shows that in the observed period since 2004, it has significantly increased the efficiency of this commission, its work. In fact, since we had 60, 70 items a year that remained unresolved on which the commission did not take a position, and even for 2006 103 cases, so today we came into a situation that the commission was very effective, and when I say it effectively means responding in time to the enquiries and taking views, it means that we have come down to a few of the items that remained from last year. What should also be pointed out is that in the future there may be fewer subjects, because an additional education was made by answering your questions, but these items would certainly be more complex. And that's why it's important for this office to be teamed up and able to answer questions in time, but also to solve potential cases of conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52026	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52027	Thank you very much. Well, I have to tell you when I mentioned it, and in this sense answer your line, when I mentioned the rebalancing or the state budget for 2010 in the context of the debate itself, I mentioned the fact that the funds for professional services commissions are not directly secured in the positions of the 2010 budget, but I absolutely agree with you that it is not only the only model, or the possibility of funding of a professional service that should be financed, and even in the opinion of the Government, to give a model or a proposal in which it will settle the costs of the professional service itself, so it is primarily by redistributing those funds from which they have so far drawn funds for that purpose. Otherwise, I absolutely agree with you, in all of what you have said to improve the quality of work, to the results of the commission, to the number of processed objects, and to everything that, in a positive sense, our commission naturally participates. So they mention the budget rebalancing for 2010 I mentioned it only in the context of finding one of the variants or the possibility of financing professional services. If it's not like that or if it's in someone... the rebalancing or directly in the budget itself do not provide the funds it will certainly be provided in another way. [[You don't understand.]] I am convinced of this by redistributing funds for professional services of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52028	Thank you. One notice, a session of the Committee on Regional Development, a forest and water economy called for today at 13:30 will be held at 14:00 at Janko Draskovic's hall. So instead of 13:30 in 14 hours. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. If we were in the American Congress, I probably wouldn't have the right to speak right now, I'd be an interested party and as a member of the committee, I'd tell him that I'm a member of the committee and I'd ask him to read at the beginning of the session all of us who came to him as interested parties, explain why we won't report in the debate and why we won't take part in the vote. But we are not in the U.S. Congress, so here I have dared answer with the goal of saying a few words about the work of this committee. I must say, I confirm what Mr. Tomljanović said, this commission has been working really well in the last year, two days, working in a way that professionally, in detail, correctly, objectively analyzes every case and so far we have not had any major objections to our decisions, although the number of these cases we analyse has increased significantly compared to the previous period. So it's certainly good to say that. In order for the commission to work even better to provide a sufficient number of professional people, a sufficient number of people who will be doing technical work, an adequate space, which I am still not sure is permanently solved, then we need to solve the issue of equipment, especially equipment related to information and communication technology, we need to make all our decisions public, raise them on the web, on the Internet, and in this way every citizen will be able to see what we have solved, how we have solved and what we have not solved. Whether or not 8 employees can say a few words about it. I'm absolutely up for it, but I'm going to mention it for a reason because I was clearly asked at the club and we analyzed it in detail. But before I go through with it, allow me just a few words about Mr. Lek's proposal. We have seen that we are trying to divide ourselves again into two, in two camps, for and against such a way, to isolate the commission from both the government and the Parliament. I think that long-term Mr. Leko has a right, no matter what we do well, he has a right in the long run, I believe that Mr. Kacan, Mr. Petrovic and a few others, along with professional services, would do the job equally well, and without Mr. Tomljanović and I sitting there. I believe that. And that the election mechanism of the members of the commission is significantly different, that it is not really dictated to say, by a party or by an inter-party agreement or agreement. That's what's happened so far. We can't say he wasn't here. He was there. Therefore, long-term Mr. Leco is right, let us think in the long term in this direction and let us not immediately look at each other through the aim, it does not really make sense, especially when it comes to this commission, an extremely significant commission. What bothers me, and what I could hardly explain at the club, is when, if you've done well, why you're looking for more employees. By systematicization, we have 8, right to 8. What bothers me is that, colleagues and colleagues, let's be an objective one cyclical character of the commission's work, in the post-election period, the burden of this commission is significantly increased. After that, there is a phase of peaceful work, where there is no need for 8 employees. But when that wave is, then it needs eight. In addition, on the long run if we analyze the issue of the work of this committee, we are already noticing that people also understand what is a conflict of interest, that they avoid it and that we have less and less and less question about what is very good,... that this wave that is now very high after the election by 4, 8 or 12 years will be lower, so lower and lower, then those who come into these benches will have to make one correction for me, eventually reduce that number, change the systemization, do something because the circumstances, the number of objects, for the better I hope. [[You don't understand.]] That's why I'm not for what they have in Serbia 59 people. It is only good that this agency is isolated from the policy system and the influence of politics. That's good. We have to say that, too. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, let us support the commission, but in the function of time we follow the new developments and needs and, accordingly, let us clearly correct our decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52030	Replica, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52031	In fact, I would certainly support all these praises that have been given specifically for the work of the commission in this last period and also that in the work of the commission when you mentioned Mr Lek who said that this should, as everything, be separated from the Parliament and from the Government, etc. I think that's a concept question. In fact, we should never understand this Committee of Conflict of Interest that it should be neither municipal nor county, nor the High Court of Commerce, so something like that. So, the commission has one delicate role of an arbiter and interpreter, which is actually a conflict of interest. Because I think we can agree that the penalty imposed by the Commission of 10 thousand kunas, so that one puck, we could say to the state officials who make it half a salary or maybe less, that one puck does not solve the fundamental problem in Croatian society. So we are more interested here in the conflict of interest in those cases, not those who receive a fine of 10 thousand kunas, but those who may indicate serious, dangerous, corrupt and criminal activities. So that's the part. The commission remains in its frameworks and interpretations which is a conflict of interest, but I say it cannot replace the role of courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52032	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52033	We've distanced ourselves greatly from any imitation or substitution of any court. That's what we have to say. And here we are very successful. But I don't agree with you that we can't talk pro futuro about a different mechanism of election of members of the commission, make it professional, completely removed from the election system of the Croatian Parliament and the influence of the Croatian Parliament on people sitting there. Why? Because the Trade Court, NGOs, the Bar Association would give several names and that in this way we choose these people by a completely different mechanism, I believe that they would do nothing worse if they were people who are professional, quality, etc. I think Mr. Kacan gave a special note, a quality note to the work of our commission, and I don't find that a few of these people couldn't be exactly the same, perhaps even better worked, and that we're not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52034	Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52035	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, we think that by adopting this Internal Affairs Regulation to achieve sufficient levels of independence, so this office. I think that all people, and the commission, and also those who work there, can tell how much their independence is in this work and independence in making decisions. The commission is doing an extremely important job. However, in relation to what is involved in some kind of punishment for civil servants for conflicts of interest, I think that this part of prevention, education, training, learning, etc. is more important, all government officials at all levels, in terms of what they should do by acting as a civil duty, which is a conflict of interest. In fact, we also need to bear in mind here that there are 1800 officials in the Republic of Croatia and that this is not just about senior level officials, so state secretaries, ministers, parliamentary representatives, that the level of information and that the availability of information is not in all cases equal to, for example, the level of information. to some small municipalities that we may be talking about here tomorrow and to shut down because they cannot finance themselves financially, they are not financially sustainable. So, it's a large number of officials, it's a different structure of officials, and I think one of the basic tasks, which is the commission, we'll see that from the 2009 Commission Report, I mean very correctly done. So, first of all, state officials are educated and learn about what may be a conflict of interest. A great contribution to that is so - called. Guidelines on bans on public officials that came out in half of 2009 where in a very mature way with many examples, with a lot of support from practice, they actually analyse the situation around the Law of Conflict of Interest and, in some ways, make recommendations to state officials for behaviour. And especially in those cases that can be interpreted two ways, where people are not sure how they act. So, I think those guidelines absolutely played their part. It was last year in, I at least read on the internet, a newspaper article about Dubrovnik where it was said, says "Today at a session of the County Assembly, in September, there was a real scandal when the head of the regional agency... published a document with a list of people she had to hire for SDP pressure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not saying that to remind you of this situation in Dubrovnik and probably something that is absolutely immoral. But he'd try to expand that question a little bit. So government officials aren't just government officials. They have worked on serious managerial positions so far, they have worked as university professors, as lawyers, etc., so people who have passed systems and who can absolutely give employment recommendations. So, a state official who is a university professor can give a written, oral recommendation for hiring his, let's take an ex, student, graduate, etc. A manager who worked at a company can also give his recommendations to employees who worked in the company for the employment of people. So, because what is it? When we watch a public competition, it's not a competition for goods and services, or it's not for objects. The competition for staff, for people, is a complex category that can't finish objectifying everything. So, recommendations are also important. In this sense, the question is also, here for our Mr. Matu Kacan, so whether government officials are allowed to make written, or oral recommendations for the employment of people in state institutions, in various public enterprises, in companies, and whether they are in conflict of interest. But not from the title that they are politicians, state officials, but from the title of the job they had previously done, as professors, as lawyers as managers, as people who can hardly say whether someone has been effective in their work, working and that in that sense they can give him the best recommendations for new employment. And in the end, I would say, therefore, that I think that the commission in this period of work has done its job, and that it is also a contribution to curbing corruption in society because it could say it works in the initial part where this conflict of interest, which, unfortunately, in some situations, grows into something else, with all praise, I would ask the answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52036	Thank you very much. Since there are no further proposals for discussion, I'm closing the debate. There's supposed to be a break right now, but before I break, I'll announce what happens next. For point 7. Statute of the Electronic Media Agency, point 8. The report on the work of the HRT Council and the programming principles, etc., and the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information now on the agenda has no conditions for discussion. Points 9, 10, 11 and 12, and these are the Proposals for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Selection of the President of the Republic, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the IDS, point 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the same Club of IDS Representatives and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, the same promoter of the IDS Representatives Club and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on County of Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, the same promoter of Representative Boris Miletic. All four proposals by these laws, three IDS representatives and four MP Boris Miletic's Club of IDS representatives, respectively, pulled Boris Miletic from the procedure. For the purposes of point 13. The consolidated agenda, the final draft law amending the Croatian Red Cross Act, where I am the promoter, did not give my opinion, but came to the procedure of the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on the Croatian Red Cross, which will be proposed tomorrow for inclusion in the agenda, so we will begin at 15:00 with point 14. This is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, first reading, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. After the debate under this proposal of the law, we skip points 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 because there are no conditions for them, and we are going to discuss points 20, to 23, point 20, that is to say, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, the Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club, point 21. Final proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, point 22. Proposal for a law supplementing the State Queens Act, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and point 23. Proposal for a law supplementing the Personal Name Act is the same as that proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. So now the session is interrupted, continues at 3pm with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. 11. Proposal for a Regulation on the internal organisation of the Office of the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest, the Proposer of the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest. The hearing is closed, on the basis of Article 16. Laws to prevent conflicts of interest, and the conduct of public duties. In accordance with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Legislatives, I draw the conclusion that: The proposal for a Regulation on the internal organisation of the Office of the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest is given. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This previous agreement was accepted by the majority of 104 votes in favour of, 2 abstentions, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52038	We continue to work in the afternoon session with the 14th agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 356. The HNS representative club proposed these amendments and additions to the Law on the basis of Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, you received the proposal by mail. The Government has delivered its opinion in the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law of Articles 144 to 150 shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Economy, you received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52039	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club referred this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement nine months ago, 4 June 2009, and the reason why we referred this Amendment and the addition of the Law on Public Procurement of the Club of Representatives of the CNS to the resolution of a part of the insolvency in our system which was here nine months ago had a smaller dimension than it does today, and that one of the key problems is also the presented programme of economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which states indifference as one of the six indicators of the overall economic situation and individence that threatens the viability of healthy companies. Therefore, it is certain that we discussed this Bill nine months ago, that we adopted some of the measures, brought, believed and we in the Club of the Croatian People's Party we are convinced that part of the 320 thousand unemployed would still have their jobs, part of 70 thousand who work and do not receive wages, received salaries, and especially one huge part of the craftsmen who had to close their trades because they simply did not get paid for their service. The very fact that the public sector participates in almost 50% of the total economic activity in this country speaks about the importance of the public sector, especially public enterprises, in their impact on the overall functioning of economic activities and definitely in the system of default, the system that is metastases in our financial flows and the system of unfortunately which brings one who cannot charge his service in a situation to pay for it. What is the intention of this bill of ours? The intention is to install additional instruments for the protection of creditors, which will allow for a more favourable position of those persons in the procurement process, through these amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. Furthermore, with the more active role played by the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures as an independent regulator to monitor the procurement process in all its public procurement phases, because the fact is that the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures determines irregularities in cases where the agreement takes place, however, after the whole system remains on the justice system and should remain on it but should, as an independent regulator, give power to the State Commission and we offer this proposal to the law so that it can intervene in public procurement after the public procurement procedure has been implemented and the conclusion of the contract. Three key instruments, the first in terms of the protection of creditors, is that when the contract is signed between the contracting authority and the service provider or the product, the contracting authority shall issue the payment instrument to the service provider or the product provider. So that obligation which is defined by the contract as the payment deadline, the obligation made by the contracting authority, to exceed that obligation not only as a letter of intent but to advance to a specific instrument, one of the possible instruments that enable the believer to charge his service or his work within that period after the work has been carried out, within the time limit provided for. Since the service provider or the product provider, at the conclusion, which is also prescribed by law and the contracting authority requires it, there are five different types of guarantees that the service provider must provide, we think it is correct, the minimum correctness that at least one of these guarantees and the contracting authority gives the service provider, and that is the payment instrument in any case, by accepting, and that one year earlier we accepted this proposal to make a whole series of obvious irregularities in the procurement of services or products from the contracting authority, and today we talked about something about it on the Finance Committee on Croatian RadioTelevision, something that follows in the debate. Therefore, various new affairs are being discovered daily, that we have introduced this system safely to improve the performance of the public sector, I am sure that it would finally ensure that some of these 320 thousand people who are unemployed today have their jobs. And I'm sure some of those 70 grand as estimated to be working and not getting paid getting paid. I repeat, and craftsmen certainly do not need to speak, because unfortunately there are no statistics in service, and the biggest problem is with them. Finally, a few days ago, the government of the Republic of Croatia announced an economic recovery programme. A couple of measures from that program. It has already been mentioned that one of the 6 indicators of the overall economic situation is indifference that threatens the viability of... the company. That this overall programme for the purpose of the Economic Recovery Programme speaks at point 4 is to stress that significant changes to the behaviour of all state and public sector entities, private businesses and the population are necessary for the successful transformation of the economy. I especially stress here the need for public authorities to behave. Furthermore, one of the key measures in support, recovery and growth is to address the liquidity problem that requires a spot solution, an urgent solution. It speaks in favour of the need for us to discuss this bill nine months ago and certainly so that we could expect a whole series of positive changes to be discussed and adopted by chance, since the proposal is an opposition. Finally, the contribution of the state and economic recovery is evident throughout a number of activities. The first activity is a spotless reduction in general in liquidity by a one-time settlement of all debts due from the Government's domain of influence from 1 June 2010, the use of all forms of funding and monetisation of due debts. I'm talking about something that I'm sure will be respected as an announced activity within the deadlines that have been announced. With these amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, we have offered a solution that would largely be implemented long ago when we talk about the public sector of public enterprises. Second, the maintenance of payment deadlines of 60 days, as well as other activity and in order of other activity, the maintenance of payment deadlines from 60 days, and the introduction of payment deadlines from 45 days to 1 January 2011. Definitely a measure that each of us always and at all times supports and is ready to support. And this bill nine months ago offered responsibility we offered the possibility that the activities now announced as a contribution of the state to reviving the economy were listed in the first and order of the first two activities. In the club of the Croatian People's Party, we consider, regardless of these announcements that we repeat, we believe that by accepting this proposal of the law, we have created an additional lever in the real and effective implementation of the government's announced activities in the programme of economic recovery and acceptance or non-acceptation of this bill, in the context of the announced economic recovery programme, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also talking about our current responsibility and willingness to announce the measures and implement them, because this legislative proposal provides the necessary tools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52040	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I don't see any. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear Krešimir Rozman State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52041	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs. Therefore, this bill seeks to limit the new procurement procedures launched if they are not subject to obligations and secondly to give new additional powers to the state commission which would have the power to resolve even after the conclusion of a public procurement contract. That's the kind of flavor I'd say. So the solution to the problem of paying is certainly something that is valuable and that should always be considered and seen how to solve it. However, this proposal is not accepted. For what reason? Therefore, this proposal goes into the area coming out of the Public Procurement Act. In particular, the scope of the Public Procurement Act refers exclusively to public procurement procedures, i.e. public procurement of all the values in which the contracting authorities and tenderers conclude public procurement contracts afterwards. On the other hand, the execution of the contract after the contract is signed is no longer a public procurement procedure. We are now entering another area that is primarily regulated by other regulations. First of all, the Law on Mandatory Relations and some other regulations that can regulate payment insurance instruments. Therefore, after the conclusion of the contract, there is no longer any public procurement procedure. The responsibility of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures also relates exclusively to the settlement of complaints in the procurement procedures prescribed by this law, i.e. the procedures pending the conclusion of the contract. After the contract is concluded, it is not done by the commission or could do so. In fact, there are other relationships that the court has jurisdiction over. So, if the client didn't pay for it, it should be a competent court. In doing so, I must point out that this law is in line with the relevant European Union directives in Chapter 5. I should also say that by virtue of these directives, the area of law is exactly what is now regulated by the existing law. Therefore, the procurement process, not those procedures that would go after the conclusion of the contract. Therefore, this bill is not accepted or considered unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52042	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52043	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support this bill because such a law in the existing system would not be applicable. He ignores the existence of the Law on Mandatory Relations. He intends to convert the Public Procurement Act into a collection instrument. It intends to grant powers to the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures which are contrary to the Public Procurement Act and to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, i.e. to give it jobs which it objectively cannot afford because it is solely designed to resolve complaints in public procurement procedures and public-private partnership concessions. To put it this way, the law you are proposing would be approximately the City Voda Company because Marko Markovic did not pay for the water the city's company shuts down its water, electricity and phone. This is where pears and apples and separate legal affairs are mixed. Our Public Procurement Act, as well as the fact that we have met the criteria set out in the negotiations with the European Union, is a criterion in Chapter 5 - Public procurement is fully in line with the acquis. These Directives do not provide for a guarantee of payment as an insurance instrument by a contracting authority. The insurance instruments shall be determined exclusively by the contracting authority. It should be recalled that public procurement ends, so all that is provided for by the Public Procurement Act ends at the time when a contractual relationship arises between the contracting authorities and suppliers of goods and services and that part is further regulated by the Law on Mandatory Relations. So disrespecting contract provisions can't violate the Public Procurement Act. The HDZ Club does not support this law, the bill. However, HDZ, like you in the HNS club as well as the public, shares concerns about the situation in which they were not paid, and has reached the obligations of legal and physical persons of 27.6 billion kuna. It is clear that this situation is not good and that the risk of collection affects the interest market as well as the overall economic competitiveness of Croatia. The HDZ Club argues that we also have zero tolerance related to non-payment. Consider also the situation where non-payment is the product of an incorrect market behaviour, where those who can pay for the use of the crisis, use this situation, use the non-payment atmosphere in order not to carry out their obligations and thereby seriously endanger the competition. It's also a good thesis that says that non-payment encourages corruption and that the circle closes. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club welcomes the announced measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from the economic recovery programme, where the country's contribution to economic recovery is being discussed in the segment of the country, that activities will be carried out on the 60-day payment deadlines and the introduction of payment deadlines from 45 days from 1 January 2011, and then recommendations to the Croatian employers' association for the regular publication of the list of entrepreneurs with the highest debts. And thirdly, the legal regulation of the obligation to make a statement of no tax debt when establishing a new business entity, because unfortunately we had in practice and this long-term practice that they are just these, we can call them "offshare" companies and Ficus companies, so they remain in debt both to the state and to entrepreneurs, that entrepreneurs of that company are in bankruptcy which in liquidation, and that they went on the other hand to open new legal entities, which should certainly be interrupted as a practice. In view of all the above, the HDZ Club will not support this law and fully support the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52044	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote, a distinguished representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52045	Dear Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52046	Hold on, hold on, hold on. I didn't give my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52047	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52048	Dear Representative Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52049	Your Honor, Vice President, for the second time. I will correct the inaccuracies in which my colleague Kovacevic said the HDZ club shares concerns about the 27 billion indifference in Croatia, in the Croatian financial system. That's not true, because if that were the case then in the last 20 months, there would certainly be an attempt to solve the problem. But since the last 20 months have no intention of solving this problem, then I cannot agree with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52050	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52051	Thank you very much. I have needs, purely because of the clarification of this bill to react on behalf of the promoter, not through the institution of correction, but the possibility opened by the legislator, which is first, the representative of the Croatian Democratic Community club says that this law has mixed pears and apples. It is his personal position, however, if something is not understood then in any case the pears and apples and not only pears and apples or especially if it is not done then another third or fourth fruit or fruit is added, but in any case a system which does not solve the recorded problem. Here's a colleague Bernardic said just now, 27 billion of us at this point have unpaid, goods and services, unpaid. Therefore, we are talking first of all about the public sector by this legislative proposal, we commit the contracting authority to this bill, which is why public procurement, in public procurement, is the contracting authority, and we commit that it is willing to pay for goods or services, to show it through and collect the collection instrument. And in any case, this remark, the relationship between the city's water company and Mark, has nothing to do with it because the city's company is a public contractor, not Marco. Therefore, this bill nine months ago we wanted to oblige the contracting authority to carry out its payment obligation within those deadlines agreed and agreed. Furthermore, public procurement does not only last until the contract. It's a matter of definition. It's a matter of our determination, of how long public procurement takes. The procurement process shall continue until the conclusion of the contract, but the total public procurement shall continue until the payment of the procedure, until the whole process is completed. And the fact is that in public procurement, we had or allowed the Public Procurement Commission to be an independent regulator, to control public procurement procedures. I am sure that many of the public companies' administrations would not spend their part of their time in the near history in Remetec, and I am sure that the total damage to this country would be much, much and much lower. And lastly, I would like to point out one more time, and the legislative proposal says that this legislative proposal does not enter into relations that are regulated by another law, it does not enter in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52052	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations by distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52053	I mean, I've got to make it right. It enters the area of these laws because it is necessary to distinguish the procurement procedure from the total purchase. So what makes it real. As regards the procurement procedure, the Public Procurement Act and the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures are only relevant. And when it comes only to the conclusion of the contract and the realisation of the public procurement, then it is regulated by the Law on Mandatory Relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52054	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. It is up to the SDP club, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52055	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act is not perfect, but it is an attempt to resolve something. An attempt to solve something in a system where in the last 20 months the trend of indifference has galloped, 27 billion have passed in a system in which this liquidity has left 100,000 people without their jobs in the last year and currently over 80,000 people are working, and it does not receive a salary of 36,000 insolvency companies. It is said in the explanation that the instrument is not in the Public Procurement Act's jurisdiction by means of a guarantee of payment, i.e. it is legally unfounded. It can be true, it can be an excuse. But I will remind you of another law called the Law on Public-private Partnership which we also brought into this House. Since that law was passed, the number of public-private partnerships has fallen. So, one Britain that has 55% of the public-private partnership across Europe does not have a law on public-private partnership. We, out of the need to regulate that area, have cut down the branch on which we sit. Public procurement is an exceptional segment and instrument of state policy through the central budget, through public enterprises, because it practically covers let's say more than 50 billion kunas of what is spent, what the state and public enterprises are spending. It's huge money. We in Croatia have the power of state capitalism. The real sector, when the central state is excluded from 120 billion, is excluded from public companies with 44% of the INA shares somewhere that turns out to be 65 billion, 67 billion. When the total banking sector and the telecom sector are excluded, the real sector is nothing, like that. And it is extremely important for the state to be an example and a relationship regulator and an example of payment. Today, however, not only is it not so, but the average deadlines in Croatia are even more than 200 days, when all sectors are summed up. For more than 200 days, it's more than half a year. If you're not able to collect your claims for half a year and how you're going to pay someone's salary, and you first need to know how much money you have in your account. And then you have to borrow, unfavourable, then you don't comply with the government's obligations, then you have to raise liquidity loans that are very unfavourable because there's a big credit risk and then you're in a pretty big problem. And when the problem is not solved for a year and a half then the effects of the guarantee fund as the first concrete measures are devastating. One hundred million used kunas of 20 times more funds that could have been used. Why? Because in this process over the last year and a half, the problem has not been solved without a job of more than 120,000 people. Because 80,000 people work and don't get paid. Because the 20-month trend and non-resolvement of the liquidity problem threatens the functioning of the foundations of the financial system. What is the problem with this proposal is, in fact, when it comes to payment, that the European Commission, as the Government of the European Union, committed by its directive, to reduce payment deadlines from 60 to 30 days precisely to speed up the turnover of capital, just to reduce the risk of non-payment, just to keep jobs. Because it's much more expensive to open a new workplace than to save the old one. And that is why the European Commission reacted a year and a half ago. If there was a system in Croatia in which, in the event of non-payment, it could be sat down with the expense of creditors who deliver goods and the service to consume their money to which they are entitled under the Law on Mandatory Relations, then in Croatia financial discipline would be much and significantly different. But in a system like this where the main line is on the other hand you can sue me, and we know what a Croatian-efficient judiciary is. In fact, we talked about this chapter yesterday, and we haven't even opened the chapter of the judiciary yet. We may open that chapter at an intergovernmental conference in June, and we will hardly be able to close it by the end of the year. This really takes great optimism and skill not only in the negotiations, but in the proposals of the law. And speaking of the draft laws, clubs and HNS and SDP have proposed a whole series of laws to address not only the problem of liquidity, but to solve a whole series of other problems. A lot of them are... Some of them didn't come to the balance sheet agenda, none of them were accepted, and that's what's true. [[You don't understand.]] On the other hand, on this agenda that we have left until the end, we have no proposal for a solution to how to solve a deep structural crisis, or in some of the burning Croatian problems. The other day we had a presentation, a powerpoint presentation or a slide show, but after 20 months of not solving the problem, after 10 months of the new prime minister, or the Prime Minister is not at the government to show slide show, it is up to the government to guide the laws in the procedure, and that is what is the difference between power and opposition. We could show the slide show, since no law has passed. Not one. They're all rejected. Some of them didn't even make it to the agenda. But in a situation where the ruling show is showing slide show, then let's say it's a little bit and unserious. In developed countries, the possibility that you, in the event of non-payments, are driving your debtors into bankruptcy, a business immorality which in Croatia would be what would be a burning term for non-business, for which, of course, it is not the state, nor state-owned enterprises, but business immorality, is reduced to a minimum. Why? Because the state has to and should regulate the most important system, which is the financial flow. In the analysis we've been doing for 21 state-owned enterprises, it's 10 times less than all state-owned enterprises, but they are mostly covered by the largest companies, the analysis shows that their outstanding debts are somewhere close to 8 billion from the internal liquidity of 27 billion. So somewhere close to almost 40% of the total debt. And that's one serious problem that I repeat, 20 months doesn't solve. And then you get into a situation where the believer who sues the debtor in this case doesn't want to do it for a simple reason because he's afraid he won't get a job next time. He does not want to do so for a simple reason, so that he does not resent anyone, and those who sue in court cannot come to justice for quite a long time. And in such a system, normally, that non-payment is an instrument for what fellow Kovacevic mentioned corruption, because in a system where you don't pay, in which you actually need to collect your claims, because in order to settle current obligations and pay the minimum wage of workers, you are simply forced to agree to anything, and in Croatia as far as we can follow, no investigative proposal has come. It came for other things, but not for this. So I will conclude with the SDP club supporting this Public Procurement Act because it is at least an attempt to solve a problem that is not solved for 20 months with due explanations that it can't be formally implemented, if you don't try anything, you won't change anything, and if you see the problem then you can't solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52056	Thank you. And it is up to the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52057	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government. I am not an economist, I stress again, and every time this issue is spoken of, but I can immediately say that on behalf of the HDSSB, we will support this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. What am I saying that for? I am a witness, and I believe all of you here or a large majority of you here to have daily calls, to have daily requests to intervene precisely in terms of the guidelines of this bill amending the law, and I can also set a personal example to better paint what is happening daily and believe not only to me, but to all of you. Entrepreneur of works or services of Slavonski Brod asked me to intervene with Croatian highways, if I know someone, to pay him the debts owed to him by Croatian highways for a year. I'm not going to name and last name, so I'm going to list Croatian highways as a state-owned company. He also asks me to perform a year and a half ago in a company in the city of Osijek, so if I can or have someone known to hurry up to pay him that debt. Another carrier for a large company asks me if he can hurry with, now it's already in bankruptcy etc., with the coming order, so the payment order he has to settle tax obligations to the state for his one and only truck that he has as a carrier and carried a stone. Now I don't think we're going to name the firm. The company's gone. The third calls me and says that he could beat up his tax debt with the state so that the state pays off to another company that the state owes to the third company, so that the three of them, so the state and the two of them are beating up somehow to settle the bills, the two privates will settle it among themselves, and the state will forgive him for his 8 million kuna tax. I'm not going to name names, but I'm convinced that you and I have these phone or personal contacts that try to get rid of these things. I'm gonna say it, I'm not gonna say powerless, but I can't tell people or what to tell people. It is almost legal in Croatian healthcare to owe 300, exactly by the days 365 days HZZO owes to the suppliers of our hospitals. It's almost legal. It's normal 365 days. And now we have a proposal for this law that is in Art. 4, 5 and 6, as far as I understood it as an non-economic expert, regulates this matter in a way that tries to resolve this devastating indifference and public enterprises and all other entities legal, economic and other to move forward, in order to counter the effects of the inequitability of products and incentives, namely in terms of this non-employment, i.e. the reduction of the number of employees, the loss of jobs or the non-payment of workers working in a working relationship. That's why these promises I've heard from the representatives makes me the HDZ Club, that there's going to be some kind of legal provision or what, that it's going to be brought in or that it's going to be some sort of order within 45 days, if I get it right, the payment deadline is a little weird to me. And now we have the instruments of government, or pardon, the ruling party, so why wait 01.01.2011? I don't get it. For six years, they've had the instruments of the same government, so HDZ's rule, and it didn't occur to anyone that this, and we're here, Parliament of the Republic of Croatia to say let's separate apples and pears. We'll decide what an apple is and what a pear is. We have these possibilities, and most of them have that possibility. They're grandmothers and they're frogs. So let's not get used to mixing the affairs of the State Commission and the affairs, let's say, criminal law, who did the crime to answer. So we have the possibility in this already legal proposal to make things right. If there is a will, is there faith, is there any intention to do so best will show the vote on this bill. It takes a period of time, a period of time to agree, because it clearly requires legal entities, economic operators and the finding of a financial faster flow, but it's already a really high time because this indifference, as we see it, brings both state and citizen and legal entities, economic operators in a state of despair, screaming, I would say, state. That is why, given that this is the most representative body, the legislative body, which is why we can't right now, therefore, by keeping strict administrative rules, which is regulated by the Law on Mandatory Relations, which is the function of the State Commission, which is the work of the State Commission, so that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia can, in this debate and in its vote, decide and decide and then there is no reason to discuss the way apples, pears, etc. We can, if we will, if we have a desire, hope, faith and intent, if there is no good will, then my God. That's why the company's mentioned ficus or as someone said to the fax company, so there's only a fax that nobody's even answering and nobody's including, and there's a company, and then there's individuals in our society who have 5.6 fax companies, and they play and cheat and laws on mandatory relationships, as Mr Kovacevic said. So, in a way that one fax company commits a crime, I'd say, from this matter, and then they say it shuts down the company, but it has another firm. And so it goes on forever, and we all see it, we all know, we all look at it, and I don't know why we don't once regulate how polite European countries and legislation have arranged it. As an attempt to edit this matter, I said that the HDSSB Club would support this proposal from the HNS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52058	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, and the first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will support the applicant's insistence to intervene as soon as possible in the Public Procurement Act with a reminder that the government's and the HDZ Representatives' Club's testimony is a little confusing because the draft law is in the procedure on June 05th 2009, and the arguments for refusal are two days old. So it's a little bit, those arguments are pretty strange to be used as the main one. In the current Public Procurement Act, and since it is said that amendments to the law are being prepared and that by the end of the year the Government will propose them to the Croatian Assembly, I am also addressing the Secretary of State with two concrete proposals, which would certainly be necessary to install new amendments. Therefore, there is a provision in the existing law that those involved in the procurement process must be accompanied by a confirmation that they do not owe the State tax contributions. And that's how the state wanted to protect itself and to protect itself against the fact that the state's affairs cannot be obtained by those who owe her a tax contribution, and that's good. But what happens, especially in public enterprises? They pay the day before the takeover of BON 1, BON 2, tax obligations, but remain due to the community of bidders or subcontractors at previous jobs. This debt has not been eliminated, it has not been declared that it is not capable of bidders and participates fully in public procurement, business with the state and in new jobs. Now I agree that the question of payment of claims is not the subject of the Public Procurement Act, that's correct. However, the way to prevent such business entities, employers, companies, whether they are private or public companies from taking part in the procurement process again is subject to this Act. And if the current legal solution is a tax debt obstacle to taking part in the procurement process, why the debt to the subcontractor, the cooperative or to a member of the offeror's community in the previous contractual work could not be an obstacle to participation in the public procurement procedure with the State in the second procedure. If the State protects itself for tax claims, why not protect companies that pay and service their obligations neatly, and in failure or failure, they are because the state has put all its obligations to the main performer, and he has not even paid the kuna to those who actually did his job. I will repeat the example of Kempinski's biggest investment complex in tourism, the holder of the business of Slovenian firm Vegrad from Velenje charged up to the last drop of investors all, and in bankruptcy drove 10 Croatian construction companies away, did not pay them any kuna of the work they had done and that company got a job again and took part in the competition with the state, the Croatian state gave her a job. It's legal under the law. The Minister also knows that because I personally informed him, both Minister of Economy and Minister of Finance and now ruling that it is not the subject of this law, it is this law that such tenderers can be declared unable to participate in the public procurement process if they owe to the community of bidders or subcontractors. In the blink of an eye, such a law can be written and amended. It is a protection and it is one way of reducing the internal debt between business entities participating in the competition. There is also a provision in the current law that the rightful verdict for certain offences is an obstacle to participation in public procurement, especially with the state, and that's good. However, I am testifying, I will present two examples of where, under the current law, it can participate in billions of valuable affairs with the state, the perpetrator of the most serious form of economic crime, and even members of the organised crime mile, and everything will be legal. Namely, if they are smart enough to admit the criminal act and reach a plea, they are not legally convicted because there are no provisions in our law with a judicial verdict or plea, two examples. For the second time, I repeat, Daimler has reached a court settlement in America for the crime of corruption in Croatia, they are neither in America nor in Croatia legally convicted of corruption, and they can report today for a contest that will be opened by the Ministry of Economy, Defence or the Police and a little delivery of vehicles. And even if the proceedings against them in the Republic of Croatia and Croatia can reach a court settlement, recognise bribery, pay the fine and continue to operate in accordance with the existing law. Or another example, a few days ago, one of our Ministries reached a deal with a company that had been illegally exploiting stone, a property owned by the state for six years. In the deal, the company's representatives admitted to obtaining illegal property they admitted, and agreed to pay off 1/6 of the debt for those 6 years, they paid off. The ministry was pleased to say that they had at least received something and had pledged not to file criminal charges against the responsible persons and the company themselves, because it was part of the deal. That company works and works with the state because it builds roads. What she needs a rock for and now she's in a road construction competition. A week before that with the state, the Ministry reached a settlement and they admitted illegal exploitation of the stone and paid only 1/6 of what they stole from the state and it's all legal, because a plea deal that recognises the committing of the crime and unlawful acquisition of property and does not exclude the procurement process. So I suggest that in addition to the law that you propose, remember the verdict and the plea, then we have covered both possible forms of confirmation proven, a criminal offence which is otherwise excluded under the current law from the possibility of participation in public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52060	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52061	Dear fellow Lesar, you have well noticed that in the existing legal system there are some illogicalities, I will only supplement this in your instrumentation of public procurement, you cannot formally exclude from the competition of the company which, through one Ministry, sues Croatia for over 100 million kuna for one service or quasi service from wartime, when temporary motor vehicles have been seized under the defence law, this company has charged the Republic of Croatia with such motor vehicles in the rent-a-car system. The search is about 100 million kuna. What's the company doing? It shall establish a daughter and report to a tender from certain shortcomings because it has not offered goods satisfactory technical conditions their offer will not be accepted and then the leaders who have not accepted that offer shall receive the indictment. If you're interested, it's about getting military trucks. Check and see, according to the position of the body in the Republic of Croatia, this claim is by all means not an illegal basis for exclusion from the procurement procedure. Now a new relationship has yet to be added. So to that 100 million, you have to add some millions to the extra dues, and when you don't accept that, then of course you get the indictment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52062	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52063	Col. Rončević is so good when such discussions are opened, because they give at least if... the possibility that such proposals of the law are adopted that much in the name of this we find out a lot. This fact is worth the gold, at least to me information, so I'll fill in my previous information. So, that ministry that reached a deal with a company that stole stone for 6 years, that ministry is the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. So for six years it was known that a private company in Zadar was exploiting a rock on land owned by the State under the management of the Ministry of Defence and now only one-sixth of it has been signed and only one-sixth of it has been charged. Meanwhile, another other company from Zadar took over from another city to erase this stain for participation in the procurement process. Now I don't know if it's worth 100 million of that stone or something bigger, but it seems to me it would match the value of these trucks you mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52064	Let's move on with the individual debate. It's our guest, Zdravko Ronko. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague from the ministry. Well, here I would actually look back at just a few articles. Article 1 states that it is a ban on implementation among those who do not comply with unsettled obligations. However, in the current situation in the Republic of Croatia, I think this is impossible especially in the public sector of health, social, education. For example. General hospitals, we know that general hospitals constantly generate losses. However, no supplier, no medication, no medical equipment will give up cooperation with the hospital no matter how late they are. We're wondering why? Well, it's because sooner or later the hospitals respect the supplier of the state, sooner or later they get funds to the end-user. And therefore, the supplier makes co-operation before with the public sector legal person, rather than with private people. Therefore, this introduction of a ban on the conduct of proceedings until the unsettled costs are measured, I think it is impossible to implement it in this part of the public sector. Secondly, Article 2 which speaks of the introduction of a bond and a guarantee of payment, I think it's a good thing. However, when the contract is signed, the parties think they have full freedom in negotiating the items. Then I would like to say one more thing about Article 3 when it is said that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is responsible for resolving complaints. In this case, the transfer of complaints to non-compliance with the provisions of the procurement contract by the contracting authorities which should be dealt with by competent commercial courts under the Mandatory Relations Act. The public procurement procedure shall, in accordance with Article 90, end on the date of enforcement of the selection decision or of the cancellation decision. Therefore, the question of a public procurement contract is defined by the Law on Mandatory Relations. And only about the Institute of Appeal. I welcome, of course, the Institute of Appeal, but the ban on the implementation of new procedures is Article 7, yet less possible in the field of public life, health, social and education. I believe this is good, not bad. However, it takes time for this to come together and it is doubtful whether it will be possible to revive itself in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52066	Thank you. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Dear Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52067	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. After this brief debate on our proposal, expressed views and opinions, exactly on the basis of the views expressed, we at the Croatian People's Party Club are sure that with this bill we have offered one quality solution in solving, I repeat something that is indifference to something, which is abuse of the position of something, which is irresponsible in implementing public functions, we are talking about public companies running public companies. And finally, do we want to solve this problem or do we not want to solve it? Things are very simple. We offer instruments with this bill, we do not enter into the Law on Mandatory Relations, we do not prevent this bill from preventing either the public partner or the service provider and the product that concluded the business with the public partner and we do not prevent any disputes from being settled by the Law on Mandatory Relations. With this bill, we prescribe that the letter of intent, I am sure what my colleague Grubisic was talking about, for example, I believe that this intervention is a cry-level intervention, because it is about the future and the entrepreneur, the question of the future of his employees, and many have ended up at the Bureau just thanks to business with public enterprises. Many companies, many craftsmen ended up in bankruptcy, in the closure of businesses, in the closing of trades only because the public partner did not pay him goods or services. If someone prays after a year and a half, looks for a relationship, looks for opportunities through a parliamentary representative and especially the opposition because the ruling have a mechanism, the opposition do not. It's a reality. Let's not hide it. It's a reality. If someone asks after a year and a half for what the contract probably prescribed for him for 90 and 60 days, it is with this bill that we give people the opportunity to charge what is agreed, which by disrespecting the letter of intent and even the border and crime, to be charged by the instrument of collection. By introducing a collection instrument, means the possibility of you charging your service, your product from a public partner, we are not entering the scope of the Mandatory Relations Act, although we are giving a new chance of success and that the damaged have had this instrument absolutely certain and the number of court cases would be smaller. And I'm asking, my only partner is some public firm, he didn't pay me, I sue him. Do I have a chance or do I get a job at the next public competition? I'm almost certainly not. Almost certainly not. Therefore, things are very clear here. We can tell hospitals won't work, exactly. But if this is working now, and why it's working now. And quite certainly, each of us can find an observation on each of these articles definitely, but the key and essential question is whether we want to effectively influence the system of liquidity caused by the public sector. Surely the instrument of collection won't solve the problem of building harmony, certainly the instrument of collection won't resolve the giving of jobs without public procurement, certainly won't. It's a special part. But it is certain that the payment instrument will resolve the payment obligation which, I repeat, is still and for the time being at the level of goodwill and puts us in a position not to accept the possibility, by not accepting the public partner's obligation to issue a billing instrument in the course of the bargaining. We're guessing, better said, it suits the system just to pay for it. Is that a fight against corruption? With regard to the observations made by the Public Procurement Commission, it is not even essential, in this law it is not even essential, whether the Public Procurement Commission will have the power to control public procurement after the conclusion of the contract or not. It's not even essential. But with this bill, it is essential that a public partner has issued a payment instrument in the course of the contract, that the possibility for the service provider or the product to charge its service or product, secondly, that the public partner cannot enter the new purchase. Do any of you, colleagues and colleagues, go into any purchases and know there's no money? Maybe someone's going in, but whoever comes in is definitely not going to say yes, I'm going in. Therefore, this law also prevents a public partner from entering the procurement if there is no means provided, because under the Budget Law he must only have the means to plan. That doesn't mean he has to have them and he really has to have them, and with this legal proposal, he has to have them for real. Because he can't get into the public until he's met his old obligations, he can't get into public procurement. Therefore, and according to these announced measures that we had the opportunity to see, as counterpart Bernardic said on the slide show, in key places, that particular problem, the government cited as measures in order to repeat the first two measures in the activities is the settlement of public undertakings and public sectors' obligations. And this acceptance or non-acceptation of this bill is given at the same time a message to all those who have gone into trouble thanks to business with public enterprises, attitudes or specifics of honesty as they really want to help these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52068	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52069	Namely, I had to report for correction of the incorrect assumption that these were better chances of attack for systems, etc. So something doesn't stay in the air and it doesn't turn out to be about not supporting that law from some formal, legal, etc. For reasons, here are the reasons of essential nature. You say in Article 1 of this Act that it restricts the contracting authority to initiate a new procurement procedure when there are outstanding obligations under previously concluded contracts. That way, because of one non-serious supplier, because of possible advertising or problems with it, they would stop the whole system, the whole state. B, now you won't admit it, don't say you have a good law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52070	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52071	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, first reading, PZ No 356. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the conclusion that: No draft law on amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act is adopted. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Score. This proposal for a conclusion was adopted by a majority of 76 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 34 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52072	We're going to the 20th point of the agenda. It is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 485 Proposer: SDP representative club. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 129 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52073	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act sets out the Club of Representatives of the SDP of three fundamental thesiss, which is on the solidarity, comprehensive and all equally accessible health care, on the need for primary health care to address 80% of health problems and on the importance of the role of local self-government units in line with the European Charter on Regional Self-Government in improving health and disease prevention. With the 4 articles we propose in this law, we are trying to correct the mistakes we have already made in the adoption of this law, the mistakes we have made and later when this law is implemented, the mistakes we hoped would be partially corrected by a regulation that the government extended the period of concessioning. However, since nothing was done we were forced to propose this law. What do we want with this law? So, in the first article, we propose to equalise the position of private health workers of concessionaires who are tenants of business premises, in health facilities with concessionaries who carry out their health activities in facilities that are not such status. So we propose this on the basis of a number of remarks from doctors who have been put in place in this way, not in any way all the employees in the room, in the lease in the home of health, have been put in a privileged position compared to other concessionaries who perform the activity in the rented space of some other legal or physical person. We believe that such a change disables this privileged position. In the second article, the amendment of the law removes the spatial restriction on the establishment of new health homes as a health institution at the level of primary health care that prevents the establishment of health homes even in areas with a high population density and a large number of inhabitants. So, when it was decided several years ago to establish a single health home at the county level, one of the basic remarks which led to such a decision was to reduce the costs, the costs of administrative councils, a number of directors. On that occasion, however, it was not taken into account that not all counties were equal. So here I come from the Primorje-Gorski County where the establishment of such a unique home of health was completely wrong, which proved to be the business of the House of Health of the Primorje-Gorski County, because it is a county that has three completely different parts. Let us take the island part, take part of the town of Rijeka and part of the Gorski kotar, and this unique home of health has not been obtained by the results that were expected and this is one simple change of the article where the provision is lifted that it is not possible to establish a home of health at a distance of less than 50 km we believe that there is an assumption that in particular in the Primorje-Gorski County we have an island home of health, a home of health that will cover the Gorski Kotar and a health home that will cover the city of Rijeka. Something similar has already been accomplished if I am not mistaken in an area that covered the home of Zadar’s health. The third article concerns the return of mental health to a home of health. Depression is the third public-health problem in the world after cardiovascular disease and cancer. It is assumed that in 2020 every other diagnosis in family medicine will be a diagnosis of depression. Therefore, this is why we believe that the activity of mental health should be within the home of health, because this problem will then be able to solve more quality than it is now with the accommodation of mental health and the protection of mental health at the level of the Institute of Public Health. The fourth article is especially pleased to have the opportunity to say a few words about this today, because yesterday one activity of the Croatian Society of Paliatical Medicine was held by the Croatian Medical Association, which pointed out that the concept of Paliatical Care entered the Law on Health Protection of the Republic of Croatia as early as 2003. It envisioned the establishment of a Paliatical Care facility by December 2008. However, the plan has not been realised so far, nor has it begun to develop palitative concerns in all segments from education to the establishment of such an institution. According to some estimates, it takes about 30,000 people a year in Croatia, but it only gets two hundredths of them. This is, therefore, direct evidence that at this point, the legislative regulation concerning palitative care, particularly the static type, has not been resolved, and therefore this Article 4 shows how this problem can be solved and that the palitative concern comes to that level that the Council of Europe has also requested of us, which has had observations regarding the organisation of palitative care in the Republic of Croatia. Here are these four short articles that have a significant impact on improving the quality of healthcare especially in the area of primary health care and therefore I ask you to support our proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52074	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52075	Dear Vice President, my esteemed colleague Ingrid told me I had to go to the vet to be vaccinated. But I called. They said noble samples until tomorrow morning. We're just kidding. So we have a very serious proposal before us where there is really nothing to discuss about its content. Because everything that's suggested here would actually be necessary. I'll make that argument. However, I have calculated that under at least one new billion kuna a year there is absolutely no chance. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives' Club will have to reject this proposal. So what's the suggestion? It is proposed that, first of all, those concessionaires who buy are equaled, so they get a concession in the rooms of the home of health with those who get out. They are in an unequal position because this first pays only a concession, and this second pays a concession and a lease in an area outside the home of health and it is indeed unfair. However, if the state of HZZO and there is no place to pay that rent and these concessionaries out of the home of health, it would mean opening Pandora's box. That would mean an expansion of the network. The network costs money. Each office has its monthly price given the number of insurance companies that have committed to it, and that's definitely something that would make our thirty billion dollars to spend on healthcare this year even less sufficient. As for the second point, the second proposal is to abolish the restriction of new health homes in various localities. And we would be in favour of that, and when the government led the SDP in 2003, it introduced the unification of health homes at the county level, we were energetically against it. But of course as a minority we lost that competition because it happened that for example a home of health in Zagreb County, and under Zagreb County it takes you three hours to visit it if the favourable traffic conditions have only one home of health. For example, Hvar and its health facilities are the primary health care facilities in the health home of Split. Come in the southern part of Hvar to Split, for example, by toilet paper because it is your headquarters. Some homes of health were saved because they were a little late, so one of the extraordinary island health homes of Korcula failed to comply with the legal obligation and did not tie to Dubrovnik because it is impossible to reach Dubrovnik in less than three, four hours and if it is a good time. So we'd be into it, but that means now going back to the old ones, that means instead of one administration, one principal break it to 5, 6, 7, 3, 2 administrations, which means new expenditures again. They are not foreseen in this budget. And on the money again unfortunately falls, you should calculate how much it costs, suggest in the budget, we've corrected some mistakes like... The homes of health, but there's plenty more, and here's a colleague who said about Rijeka, it's really illogical. [[You don't understand.]] So maybe we should suggest this before the next health budget. The third point is the former exclusion of mental protection from home health, so from the primary level. The reason was at the time that 70% of the problems in mental health, diagnostics and therapy are and 30% are preventions. This prevention was put into public health services, if it were to return to health homes, if specialists were to return to health homes, surely a very large number of new specialists should be educated, which is, of course, a demanding step again, but definitely one that can be debated. And also... Surely there are no MPs or advocates who would not be for the introduction of hospices, this is the wound of all of us who have decided on health care, regardless of the party's commitment, the hospices Croatia had to have, it had to have a network of hospices, the terminal patients can't die with dignity today, and this is the greatest crime of all of us who participated in this, but the explanation has always been and from where to pay it. [[You don't understand.]] And today's an explanation if you open one hospice with 300 seats that means 300 times about 4,5 thousand kuna per month, times 12 months, it's a huge asset. So we should re-negotiate first, let's say one of the proposals let's do a hospice where 30% will be participated by relatives, 30% by states, and 30% will treat it and costs will be reduced... The chosen doctor will come to him as a primary physician. [[You don't understand.]] There are many such ideas and suggestions, and indeed perhaps at an inter-party level, we could put forward a quality proposal, but at this point in time, there is simply no money for it. Here's the problem with the Croatian health system, we all have good ideas, but 30th, and this year we'll spend so much, be assured 30 billion kuna, it won't be enough to settle all needs for a simple reason we have the least participation in pocket payments compared to European countries, at least. A huge percentage, over 95% of all... going out of the state budget and that was good while that budget went 5.6% up, but now that 5% down it's definitely bad, and health costs in crisis years don't go down, healthcare collects 5 to 10% every year because of new drugs, new technologies, so in all of these proposals, we need to find a financial structure first, and then talk about content, and here's the only reason why we think that these four ideas at this point can't be accepted. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52076	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect quote of fellow Hebrang, who spoke of correcting mistakes in the case of island health homes. So the mistakes were absolutely not corrected, they were in fact the same, if they were mistakes, so the amendments to the Health Protection Act introduced the obligation for the counties to form health homes on individual islands during the HDZ government. This very little if no county respected that legal provision, so the government was not able to implement the law either, and after the amendments to the Health Protection Act, it was only possible for the counties to form health homes, which, of course, the government saw that she had made a mistake, so that your sin is a failure and we can discuss whether it is the same or smaller or greater than that before sin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52078	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52079	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. As a doctor, as a surgeon, about this matter and as someone who worked for 5 years in general practice in a home of health, I can't talk about this subject. In fact, we are all witnesses of one thing here, I would say the chaotic state and the chaotic opinions and policies that are implemented according to primary health care and health homes, their role, their importance and needs in the last ones, so I would say, practically from the beginning and the creation of our Croatian state. We don't know what to do with them, we don't know how to function, we don't know what the contents are in primary health care, which goes into lease, which doesn't go into lease. There was the first part, so the second part, so when I was at the health center of Slavonski Brod in the board of directors, there were intense requests from my fellow doctors to hire, and then the dentist, and then, the pharmacy that was at home of health, so the pharmaceutical activity, so we realized as the administrative board that it was the only thing to say to cash in the home of health, except for what belonged to HZZO, and then we had to make a decision to separate the pharmaceutical activity, go into lease, etc. So I would really say one thing, and in that period when the SDP was with its coalition partners, and beyond these six years when HDZ was with its own, and I would say to the same coalition partners in power. Very interesting. Mr. Hebrang said there was no money for this kind of reform, although the content... Let's do a little reform, although the content of this legislative proposal is generally accepted, because it's relatively good. [[She doesn't understand.]] 30 years ago, I worked as a doctor in a home of health, not in the Republic of Croatia, but in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then the home of health had a general practice, had a medical service, a hygienic and epidemiological service with a patronage, had a care of women's health and maternity care, there was an emergency service with a stationer or a hospice of 30 beds, so the birth home had 20 beds, a stationer with an emergency service had 30 beds, 30 beds. There was a department of diagnostics, labs and x-rays, and there was a health care service for preschool and school children. I'd say that's what the late Andrija Stamper was when he imagined it and when he actually designed it for primary health care, which was recognised by the whole world, as something that was really ideal for the population of any country on this globe, was actually so by the recipe and concept. What is home to health today? What is the Zagreb House of Health, here is the closest example. How many employees are there? So, the one who called in the street of Baron Filipovic or Lola's fisherman, I don't know if it's county or city, there's a few people in the administration, there's a headmaster and there's a pharmacy on that same street. And that's all, that's all from home health. Now, within a 50-mile radius, there must be no foundation or establishment of another home of health because that is how he predicted the law that was in force and which is actually in force. Which did not take into account the number of inhabitants, the population population in a certain area that we have in large cities. Come on, that's where I think it belongs, and Slavonski Brod is like 6 cities in size in the Republic of Croatia. Nova Gradiška and Slavonski Brod are 54 km away. The provision is that you do not have to go into unification or unification if that distance is more than 50 km away, and if it is smaller then it can. Whether it's a 4km obstacle or not to rationalise business unification is difficult to say now. Generally, in this proposal for Article 1, which you have supplied in this material, it is said that equalising the rights of concessionaires who work in some space in someone, namely a physical or legal person who is not a home of health, is equal to the rights of those who are in the lease at home of health, which is paid 1250 kuna, that is, the lease. Do we know, or do we here, what are the receipts, the salaries of doctors in general practice, those who have the principality in the number that a specialist in the hospital is about to receive? Do you know those who are not doctors how much this difference is in favour of primary healthcare doctors? Almost 50% bigger. And then the $1250 rent is really funny, I think it's funny. If you have the same primary health care doctors, general practice as you will, doctors have almost 50% higher salary than on-call specialists together. What Saturday and Sunday do they do? When were those nights on duty? When they spent, shall I say, bloody nights in the surgical room, gynaecological room, maternity care, maternity care? What kind of system accepts that peacefully and so does it? That is why we are talking, however, although we have had the health reform that Minister Mlinović has here and promoted for this speaker and which was adopted by the majority decision, we still obviously have unresolved problems and I think this proposal, which the SDP colleagues have proposed, is quite good. How do you find the means? Well, they find themselves for a lot of resources. Is the health care important to us? School and health care? I mean, I'm not gonna say the foundation of the state, but that's what every country has to have. Just look at the case I made earlier. What patient from that town where I had to go further into secondary health care when there's a maternity home, when there's a stationary, when he's got a hygiene service, when he's got everything? A little bit. It actually saves and relieves secondary levels, hospitals. If good primary health care is then the hospital is clearly relieved as part of secondary health care. But that's obviously not the case with us, so then we have a number of waiting lists that are slightly reduced here and there by certain interventions, by purchasing diagnostics, etc. But still waiting lists for hip prosthetics, for an occlusion examination, for a spinal scan of the spine, etc. And then we happen to cases that are then on the front pages of the newspaper because the register said to come then and then, and until then something else happened with the patient because the register is just an administrative measure from regular dates on screensaver or on paper, and what happens to the patient until the day of the search is already another thing. So, as Mr. Hebrang, I agree that the content is quite elaborate and clear. And one more thing, this stationery that's spoken of in Art. 4 or hospice, wouldn't he be able to serve if we thought a little bit better for recovery, so post-operative patient recovery? Which is why it has to be, and we're trying to keep the number of days in the hospital as small as possible. In Western countries we know that there are hotels right next to hospitals, with those hospitals especially where a large number of operations are performed, where a patient 1 or 2 days after surgery goes into such a type of hospice. So a hospice or a stationer would have not only the role of a one-day hospital when a patient gets sick and waits to see how the matter will be resolved but also served for these purposes. We had Mr. Vinkovic's argument here, he's not here today, about that birthplace in Djakov, which is scheduled, Mr. Secretary of State, so that, I don't say, for liquidation, he stays only in Osijek and Slavonski Brod, the Vinkovci do. So, I'm in favour of, therefore, agreeing with the motions of the motions, and as for money, so look, I will remind you again, although I will be reminded by Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, that in 2008 alone, in the Pension Insurance Fund, you have 105 million non-retiremental pensions. Yeah, they're the ones who took and died, you know, or something else, and they've been taking for years. So it doesn't belong to pensions. It's just one segment. There are things like that that could be controlled as much as you want and find money for this kind of thing to say, according to the HDZ Club, a good proposal. Therefore, the HDSSB club although this first reading is for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52080	Thank you. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52081	Thank you very much. With a lot of things I agree with, a dear colleague said he shouldn't have broken medical centers, so separate hospitals from home health. That's not true. All in Europe and beyond have separated primary health care from secondary and tertiary care for a simple reason, which while they were together, the doctor selected worked 10% of the jobs around patients and sent 90% to the hospital. Now we've already got about 50-50. At the same time, we reduced the number of beds from 7 acute beds to 100,000 inhabitants to 4 acute beds and reached a European standard. It was a painful reform but I see some more would like to put it back. I don't think it would be good. I also think it is not true that family medicine doctors do not work nights, Saturdays and Sundays, because everyone participates in the organisation of emergency medical care, through a home of health or through special institutions. Well, it's not as good as the hospital's safe, but they didn't even pick that job, we at the hospital chose that job.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52082	Thank you. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52083	... I didn't mention the medical centers, Mr. Hebrang. I didn't mention it at all. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52084	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure and I beg you not to do so anymore. Then first we will be the club of the HNS, the distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52085	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I apologize to my colleagues from the SDP for not being here from the beginning, and we had a committee to decide on a conflict of interest at the same time, and at the last minute I arrived at this debate. I'd just like to say that the HNS club supports your proposal, thinks you've seen the shortcomings that need to be removed as soon as possible. The fact is, in his opinion, the government agrees with you about the stationary. The government also agrees with you when it comes to health care homes and the establishment of a home of health. Clearly she conditioned it by financing by the county. The government agrees with you indirectly on other details. I'll say what's the point, though. Namely, colleagues and colleagues if we are not in favour of decentralisation of jurisdiction, we know that the founders and homes of health and county public health services are who else than our counties. So if we decentralize jurisdiction in this area, then we've solved everything. Obviously, the government does not want to decentralise these responsibilities and solve the issue in this way, and it does not want to accept the changes, because, as with the previous law, in 6, 12 or 18 months itself, it will propose a better, more complete solution. So, always the same problem. That is why we really believe that the Government should react quickly in this case. This is about details that are given efficiently and quickly solved. I repeat once again, an agreement with the founders' and health homes and the Institute of Public Health, it is personal to me whether or not some activity will be organised by one or the other. Especially if the organization will be of clear benefit to the citizens, does it at the Rijeka Institute of Public Health. There's more room in that building than in a health care facility, I don't know. But the founder knows. So let us consult with the founder, see what his position is on both the space and the organisation and the financing. Therefore, the HNS absolutely supports you, and that not only can you suggest it the way you suggest it but also in a number of other ways in agreement with the founder solves, one, the other and the third and the fourth question can certainly be with little, little goodwill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52086	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52087	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a very brief review of this part of the clubs, where it's actually clear that all three clubs supported almost everything that we're talking about in our proposal. I only hope that a shorter period will pass before the Government proposes it as its proposal to bring those solutions into practice as soon as possible. Because here's just an example of the Paliatical Care facility since 2003, it hasn't been solved. And here, unfortunately, I say that, unfortunately, we have another action where citizens will raise money to establish the first plant for palitative care in the Republic of Croatia. I heard that government representatives were also at the presentation of this project and I hope this will encourage the government to address this problem in the most qualitative way. There's been a lot of talk about the money problem. I really believe that when it comes to the hospice that money has money because at this point, some estimates in hospitals die about 50% of terminal patients, which is extremely expensive to die in acute hospitals such a large number of people. Not to say I've been working on an ambulance for a long time. How many times an ambulance goes to the family of terminal patients to help them, to ease their deaths while doing his job, an acute job of urgency. Therefore, only saving up to solve terminal patients in a more quality way in Hospice-type institutions would reduce hospital costs and certainly mean savings in the long term. I also still feel that mental health is again in the long run because of a problem that threatens the true epidemic of depression. I said and I'll repeat every other diagnosis in family medicine in 2020 will be a diagnosis of depression. Therefore, it would certainly save again in the long run if the problem were solved by a general physician. And here's an example of Poland to finish. In Poland, there are 200 hospice units that take care of about 10,000 patients annually and about 200 other teams of palitative care visiting their homes. They need about a million euros annually, with 60% of the total funds participating in the country. There are, therefore, many examples of how hospice, paliatical medicine can be quality solved and that this means saving the health system in the long term. I would really ask the Government to rephrase our proposals as soon as possible, and offer them to this House for a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52088	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52089	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here as we have heard the SDP Club proposal is a rational proposal that could come to fertile ground that the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia is far better than it is now. In my discussion, however, I will look back on one segment or article 4 that speaks of palitative care or hospice. I think that in this assembly as well as in our society, there is no one who would disagree with the suggestion that we also have a palitative concern, but also hospices in our counties, in our cities. However, the situation today is not such that we could have it, and at the same time I propose to representatives of the SDP and those who supported this bill to wait for the health system reform that is under way, which gives results because the reform also provides for categorisation, hospital accreditation. I guess we will see exactly how much the need of the Republic of Croatia is for acute beds. Acute beds, we know that we are working in the system, that they are far the most expensive for every country, for every insurance company, and for HZZO. Just to remind you, two employees are coming to the acute hospital on an acute bed by the norms. And I'll give you an example of my carlovia county where we had three hospitals in county. When we decided that three hospitals were too big for one county, it should have been well founded, based on data that this health care was not needed, and also the political decision of the county, we decided that the hospital in Dugi Resa would become a B-type hospital, so-called. hospital for prolonged treatment or hospital for terminal patients. That hospital has 170 beds and the number of employees per bed is 0.5, so 100 people can work on 180 beds, at clinics is 600. It's more rational, it's cheaper, but there's got to be political will. And I think when all these conditions are met after accreditation and categorization and when we see, and I think it can happen that the acute beds in the Republic of Croatia are somewhat more than we need, that part of the hospitals that will not have the capacity because unfortunately we have fewer and fewer residents, for acute beds that can be converted into B-type hospitals or hospice eventually. I'll give you an example when we went to a merger or a hospital retegorization for extended treatment we went to Bavaria, to Upper Bavaria, and we saw their example. They had three hospitals in a relatively small area. They turned one into a nursing home, turned one into a hospice, and one was designed to be a real hospital acute. And this may be an example for Croatia, and when conditions are obtained, I think we will have a hospice, but it is important here to say that all our patients who are in the terminal stage of the disease are not currently unsettled. We need to know that there is also a patrol service in the health homes, that there is a health care center in the house as an institution, that there are pain clinics that the county has managed to do so that these patients are taken care of, that there is no false impression that these patients do not have access to the terminal stage of the disease. They do. Of all things, the proposal is acceptable at other times, and unfortunately I cannot accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52090	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52091	Vice President, Secretary of State. I'd say actually, and a colleague has repeated before me, said before that it's actually a chaotic condition in primary health care. Namely, we have tenants so clean privates, tenants in health homes, tenants in rented rooms, etc., etc. Concessors who perform health care in areas in the lease of home health have also been placed in a privileged position compared to other concessionaries carrying out their activities in the leased area elsewhere. Namely, as we know, concessionaires in the areas of home health are required to pay only concession fee while these others must also pay concession fees and also rent in the areas where they are located. And it is not really clear why tenants in health homes are placed in this privileged position, by the fact that the fundamental principles of the concession procedure are, among other things, the principle of equality, equal treatment, also the principle of non-discrimination, and that is the principle that is violated by the provision of Article 41(6). They also mentioned nostalgia for health homes as they were, which in such a way could provide health care in the right sense to all residents who actually went to those health homes. The House of Health of Korcula is also mentioned, and I am very pleased, and here we are in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, not fuzzing, the homes of health are not fuzzing, but are left alone. Here's exactly Professor Hebrang mentioned such a beautiful example of the health home of Korčula which actually works well. In fact, when we talk about health homes or bans that say that a new home of health cannot be formed within 50 miles or closer to 50 km, however, it is not possible to view only mileage, it is also necessary to look at the number of inhabitants already mentioned, and also the geographical definition. We can't use the same thing in Slavonia, and let's say in Dalmatia where we have an area in my county and an island area and an area of the continent, etc. And the third thing that we propose to these changes and additions is actually mental health that is excluded from health homes is unwarranted because 70% of the work cycle of mental health protection actually refers to therapy and diagnostics, and only 30 percent to prevention. If we look at the World Health Organization and, in fact, by that definition, that tends to tend to therapeutic approach at the primary level and even those of the most difficult psychiatric patients. In fact, it is going towards deinstitutionalisation, i.e. destigmatisation of mental patients, which means it can be achieved exactly by descending to the primary health care level. And the possible occurrence of depression was referred to by colleagues before me. So I think this is one of the important points. The fourth proposal we propose is actually about hospice. Namely, we live at a time where material values are actually measures of living standards, death as considered a ultimate loss, not part of a life cycle. Various research that has been done shows that it is mainly our fellow citizens who are actually a terminal stage that they are, in fact, a negligible group. They need help, as well as the family around them who are in those moments, they also need both liquefied and moral and psychological support. And I would say that otherwise, the moral level of a society can also be measured based on how we actually treat our fellow citizens. Unfortunately for the dying. This amendment of the law actually suggests introducing the possibility of stationary accommodation of patients, i.e. such accommodation that is known as hospices. Because there are objectively great needs for this kind of accommodation. At least we're giving it a chance. There's an interest in larger counties and larger cities and I'm going to mention again the city of Dubrovnik that we really want but without the law we can't negotiate for the county, then at the county hospital we'll make at least one department for terminal patients because about the financial picture that these terminal patients mean, what I mean to the hospital's losses, how much is... For the family, that is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because we also know cases that the family must also take the sickness to be at the end of the last day along, to reduce the suffering of these people who are in the terminal stage. Also mentioned are various participations in these accommodations in hospices. It can also be participatory and local communities, states and local communities, as well as family. And it certainly would be that many would agree to it. However, without the law or the possibility of a hospice, surely we can't think about anything, not really financial opportunities. Here, that's why I suggest we accept it, because these are the amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act that will certainly improve the health care of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52092	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52093	So here's my colleague, Šimac Bonačić, in the first sentence, you mentioned that in health care, in primary health care, the government as well. I couldn't agree more. In fact, what privatisation brought with it is a lot of bad things. My colleagues managed as well as they could. They were allowed to leave their homes of health, and now there is a big concern that health care will not, therefore, be comprehensive and high - quality. So it's actually jumping into your mouth. If we've already released the privatisation, if we've let things move in that one direction, then we're doing something that's unfair. Those who have separated from the building of the home of health that must also pay rent, i.e. rent and concession. So that's what hurts me the most in this proposal, that is, what I think is most important is that one general justice is done to those who are not in the health home building and those who have decided somewhere else in some other area to perform health care if they can do it, if they have enough patients. And if they meet some legal conditions, why not?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52094	Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52095	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here we have one, two, three, four, so I'm going to say one minus, two plus, three minus, four plus. Now I'm going to translate that into Croatian. So, I strongly support the proposal number two and number four, and at the same time I'm transferring the atmosphere, I'm going to try to transfer the atmosphere from our Health Committee because that's exactly how we discussed it. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'll try to explain the second point. It therefore removes the spatial restriction on the establishment of new health homes as a health institution at the primary level of health activities that prevents the establishment of health homes even in areas with a high population density, a large number. I now find it most convenient with this point that I am very supportive of mentioning the area of Velika Gorica which has 550 square miles or square kilometers and where there are 10 district ambulants in all villages plus eight medical teams in the home of health. And what my colleague just said to Borzan earlier, I think that, this primary health care thing is really fantastic in our area. An example of a beautiful organization where we're a little short on something else. We may be missing another team of emergency medicine and Mr. Secretary, we lack a hemodialysis center, because we have 35 patients we have to worry about and who we have to go towards Zagreb. And now imagine if we had that center in Velika Gorica how much that would be reduced. But it costs as much money as your proposals. So I'm aware deep down that we can't afford it right now. As for point 4 which I have put in place the same large plus means introducing the possibility of stationary accommodation of a patient or such accommodation, which is known for the term of hospices, which has not been regulated properly so far. If we are looking at the current situation, then the existing solution is not satisfactory given that such patients are most often detained in acute hospitals, which represents, as you have already said, considerable costs. The establishment of these institutions is also enabled by the Health Protection Act, however, what is also said is also an extremely expensive activity for which there is no funding in the state budget. However, a network of necessary institutions needs to be projected and cost simulations should be made to look at all the costs of setting up these institutions. And not to leave everything in the air, I think this was one positive atmosphere of the debate regarding the Health Committee, and one of the conclusions is that the provisions of this proposal should be taken into account when drawing up a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act that the Government is preparing. For now, I'm part of a team that's gonna refuse this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52096	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52097	Comrade Kundić, I fully agree with much of your debate, especially I liked the beginning of where you divided into pluses and minuses. That's what we've all been doing in preparation for this debate. And the reasons why we're all on some kind of plus and minuses, we're not all complicated is that we have one rigid model in health care. The home of health must organize these and these activities in no way different. Public health needs to organise these, and these activities in no way different. We only performed partial decentralisation, part of jurisdiction... We've transferred part of it to the county. [[You don't understand.]] If we'd done a complete decentralisation, we'd be in a different situation. Then the county would say in this, we would give them a framework which is primary health care, and whether they would organise something more than that in one or the other or third rooms, my God, these are the specificities of everyone, every county, every end and not, the third non-respect of local specificities, islands, Gorski Kotar, Slavonia, my God, therefore this cruelty leads you and me to keep us on pluses and minuses, and if we were a little more flexible, if we had really done quality decentralisation and money and jurisdiction would probably have specific situations in one county, but the best situation, they would have found the best solution. This way, there is no best solution for the most different situations we have on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52098	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52099	... I agree with you because let's say our specific situation was that we had a center, i.e. management in Ivanić City. [[Specially enabled.]] I think you can imagine the situation that all health homes in Zagreb County have one centre in Ivanić City, and we were not happy and we also feel that we should return to the health home in Velika Gorica administration, because this man who will be in Ivanić City, how he will know where Popusko is, where they are. Therefore, I am also to respect these specificities in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52100	Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I would like to make a small contribution to this debate, to support once again the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, which we have referred to as a club. In fact, I would like to refer to the problem of hospice, i.e. palitative care, and stress the need for Croatia to finally join the ranks of those countries that will adequately care and care for patients at the terminal stage, so on those dying who unfortunately can no longer be helped by medicine. Today, from the debate here in some way, it is in line with and with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that representatives support in the principle of the need to, among other things, go to the establishment of hospices, i.e. to regulate palitative concerns, but here we are in 2010, we are in economic crisis, there is no money and it is simply not possible now. However, I would like to remind you, given that you were also reminded of this by members of the Croatian Palitative, Hospice Society, that in your coalition agreement the government programme, the coalition government for the period from 2008 to 2011, is intended to establish hospices and finally open a centre of palitative care, and that deadline was December 2008, so December 2008. Of course, nothing happened to anyone until the end of 2008, obviously there was insufficient interest in the government or among coalition partners to move forward and set up at least one hospice in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. to move towards adequate amendments to the law. I would also like to remind you that the Committee for Palitative Care at the Ministry of Health was founded in 2002, and the leaders of the Croatian Palitative Care Association, or hospice, said at one of the symposiums a year ago that after 2003 the project of development of the palitarian care that existed, probably still exists in someone's drawer at the Ministry of Health died abruptly after 2003. By changing power, this problem, the concern of the hardest, most vulnerable groups of society, are obviously those dying, who have not been helped, who have put aside completely. I don't know if any of you are, but I guess one part of you met on your own families with people just in those stages of terminal illness, and I don't know if you were able to ask yourself when it was over and when death occurred, when you analyzed what you could possibly have done or what you didn't do, or if you've ever met, if you've ever wondered whether in this society we really don't have any institutions that could address and accommodate people who need completely different help than you could possibly give in your own families, because they don't have any family maybe doctors or nurses or any other category, so professions that might possibly care about such patients. And the question of when it is found that there is no more help, when you simply have no place to put it, such a patient, but it is returned to you under quotes at home, the question of how much you as a family can arrange to take care of such patients day and night as a family. My colleagues and colleagues, I remind you once again, I hope that Croatia is the only country in Europe, at least according to the reports I have managed to read there is no organised palitative concern, and there is not a single hospice in the entire country. That kind of patient, so those who are dying, who need our help, actually depends on only two things. First of all, if you have enough money, it's a minimum of 7 thousand kuna and then further to place a member of your family in one of your institutions, and yet there's no such concern as a patient should or have a person within a family who is able, because he's not working, because he's retired or something like that, and yet he's still strong enough to possibly care about such a person, but still not in the right and the right way. And it's absolutely not clear to me that it's really possible that all these years we haven't taken care of these very categories. Yeah, we do, I think three hospitals, with that extended hospital status. Long Resa, New Marof and Knin if I'm not mistaken, as far as I could find. But I'm also wondering, I've had a chance to be in one of those hospitals and honestly I'm going to say it's not wrong of course the staff that works there, I don't know if I'd be ready to be a member of my family to be in a hospital like that because it's absolutely inappropriate for these sick people. So, once again, I support it, and at the beginning of this year, the Croatian Association of Oncological Associations together against cancers that have received support in the far line and in this House have warned, sent a dramatic warning that we are probably the only country in Europe that has no hospice and the most difficult patients whose medicine can no longer be helped are left at the mercy and burden of their families or are sentenced to dying an unworthy man. I think that regardless of what we say there is no money, but I believe since the Government has announced that somewhere this year, 2010, it should go with amendments to the Health Protection Act that some positive developments will still be made, and yet if nothing else unfortunately will make us Europe. Because if I'm not mistaken, organised palitative care and open-minded hospices are also one of the conditions for joining the EU. And I will end up with only one sentence expressed by the former president of the Croatian Palitative Care Association, which says that the old point of view says that the moral level of a society can be measured based on its attitude towards the most vulnerable members, and these certainly are the dying ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52102	Thank you. Madam Representative Sonja Šimunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Regardless of the government's negative statement on the SDP's proposal to amend and supplement the Health Protection Act, I must stress that we remain on the proposal and claim that the status of i.e. needs to be evened. the position of healthcare professionals who are... in the homes of health and those who are not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that the government's view that the abolition of inequality between health care workers' status will end the principle of accessibility, comprehensiveness, continuity, layered access to primary health care does not actually have a real foothold. In other words, it is not a strong enough reason for the article that is responsible for the imbalance of the situation of healthcare professionals to be abolished. In particular, it is explicitly prescribed by Regulation 155/09 amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act that the concession agreement should contain the obligation of concessionaires to obtain the consent of the county in the event of a change in the area in which the health care is carried out. So the counties have already been given the opportunity to do so. an instrument that can put the offices on the ground. If the concessionary finds more suitable space for any reason, for example cheaper, and wants to move 50 or 100 meters away it is not a problem for health care users or for the county. If it wants to move 4 km of county in that case it has a legal instrument to prevent it. The regulation has the right not to give consent. In addition, we must be aware of the fact that the concession fee collected by the county if the existing situation remains is significantly lower and that the County is obliged to repay to the tenants. As far as I'm concerned, the ministry is asking for a concession fee to be paid to pay for the expenses of the health care homes. Especially management, i.e. Administrations, and above standard activities, i.e. activities. Indirectly, the Government reduces resources for home administrations of health, numerous and different preventive programmes and above standard activities. Therefore, our position is to necessarily secure the maximum amount of funds based on the payment of concession that the county would be obliged to return to health homes i.e. investment in cold drive, organisation of home visits, special programmes, etc. I want to show you what concession income means on a concrete example of the Primorsko-Gorski County. The Primorje-Gorski County at the annual level of concession fee would receive around 5 million kuna. On the basis of the return obligation, however, only one million and 570,000 kuna will be incomed. In other words, out of a possible 5 million kuna, a million and 800 return to general medicine, a million and 300 to restore dental activity, 150 thousand to restore paediatric activity and 180 thousand to return to gynaecological activity. So we point to a failure made in the Health Protection Act, and I am convinced that the same problems will arise in other counties. It is justified to ask how will the health administrations continue to finance themselves? We are witnessing that they are already operating under difficult financial conditions. In the past several years, the health care administrations are not financed through HZZO funds, but the funds needed are mostly raised from the lease. These funds are not nearly enough to finance the health care home administration, so this is a good part of the reason why particularly large health homes have a loss in business. We believe that it is necessary to enable the establishment of independent health homes in environments where local self-government units want to engage in both the creation of a business policy of health homes and their funding. For example. It does not matter when the city of Opatija gives 2 million kuna a year for a unique home of health or when it gives for a health home established for the city of Opatija. Moreover, I think it would be appropriate for local self-government units to be co-founders of such independent health homes. Such a situation would be extremely favourable for the counties because it would be disbursed in a financial sense. In fact, the units of local self-government would have a direct impact on the creation of a business policy of health homes, but also on the responsibility of showing possible losses, etc. Another example of possible poor implementation of the existing Health Protection Act sets the criteria for establishing new health homes from the administrative centre of the county as a key criterion. For example. Cres, the city of Cres, would have the right to establish an independent home of health and units of local self-government, in principle, interested in obtaining it. There is no reason to doubt that there would be more administrative and management staff in this health care home than healthcare professionals. On the other hand, Opatija or Crikvenica who have so far had a home of health due to a distance of less than 50 km from the administrative center of the county would not have the right to establish it. As for the mental health section, the fact is that about 70% of mental health protection cases refer to therapy and diagnostics. So, that form of work that has so far been the bearer of the home of health. The government’s clear and negative opinion on amendments and amendments to the laws shows that the proposal cannot be assessed as acceptable because of the establishment of infrastructure in public health institutions to carry out that activity. The question arises as to what kind of infrastructure is being established when it is known that the Department of Prevention and Non-patient Treatment of Dependence is the only curative activity of the Institute. In fact, it's an eclectic example of system ignorance. The institutions were never teamed up in human resources or in any other sense for curative activity. They were primarily engaged in preventive activities such as as part of gerontology or degenerative brain disease, Alzheimer's disease and mental condition retention program. The goal of the institute is not to deal with patients individually. The key role of the Institute is in public health programmes and works with a large part of the population. For example. They deal with the therapeutic prevention of diabetics but they don't treat them. For example. Depression will be in 2020 in the second place. It will be one of the major public health problems at the Institute already working on preventive programmes today. As for stationary... Palitative care, I would like to remind you that in Croatia we do not have systematicly organised palitative care and that the programme of the national strategy has set out that palatable care and hospice are an integral part of available healthcare until the end of 2008. In fact, no one can set up a positionary of palitative concern. The proposal to amend and supplement this law will change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52104	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52105	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So here's this amendment to the law that the SDP has proposed in the first row I'm going to talk about this part that would equate the position of private health workers, concessionaries who are tenants of business premises of health facilities with those who carry out this activity in objects that are not such status. Normally, the government has given here an explanation that I think certainly doesn't stand as such, because I'm going to try not to read here now, because several times today, I'm going to try to explain these examples. Private office and health care office. What's the difference between those two offices? They both do the same job, it's either an office of family medicine or a gynological office or dentistry, etc. And they do the same thing. They both have the same HZZO contract. They also get the same headgear if they have the same number of patients and both of them are on duty as part of their home health, Saturday, Sunday I don't know in Osijek or any of the others. Now the question arises why were private health care offices founded and offices? Well, first of all, if we're looking at it, then not all the doctors who worked in private rooms in health homes could have stayed to work there in the country of health, or to enter the lease. They were opening offices, too. They opened offices especially large cities in certain parts of the city. Why? Because they had the opportunity to gather the patient population. So if these patients hadn't wanted to come, they probably wouldn't have opened them. Another thing about such offices can even be said to be better done, because if there is only one team in one office, there is the possibility that this office can work over longer or longer, or I don't know how, but where teams change. There is also a difference in the opening of an office in the area where there was no office and office that was opened in the home of health, there is also a difference. The difference is what? Well, first of all, it's the place to clean up. Who took care of this place? Well, probably the doctor who opened the office there. It is necessary to regulate according to HZZO rules with the equipment of the office with both instruments and equipment. Of course it all cost money. He pays and that's why he rents. There are some who don't pay rent. They're the ones who bought themselves space and opened the office. But they must be paying loans or I don't know anything else about it. Therefore, when we look at both of these things, even though those who are in private have invested more than those who are in homes of health. And now the question is, why should those who are in private rent be paid both rent and concession, and these are only concessions. I don't think that would be good, because the team's more now I'm going to tell you a few details. Of the 2,000 400 doctors 70% went into lease, 12% only works in health homes. They're not privatized, they're working to get paid there. Of which 200 offices are family medicine located outside the home of health. With pediatricians. You have 270 pediatricians of which one quarter is the same private. So they're bad, too. Of the gynecologists, 280 offices, one third is out of health care. And not to say to a dentist doctor of a thousand 800 teams, half of them are in private spaces. Let's say one Varazdin County one-third and 36 teams are out. In Split, 130 teams are out of health homes. Many even renters feel that they have rented from home to health are located in places that are even someone else’s property. And they're going to have to pay the economic price tomorrow of not knowing what 4 thousand kuna is today. From all of this, I think this part that was proposed for the offices is equalizing the private with those offices that are in the home of health, that it must be necessary. Because I think at the end of this proposed amendment to the law on primary medicine, I think it's a good way out for you and for those who have suggested that this issue should not end in the Constitutional Court. Because I think it's discriminatory for the same profession for people who do the same jobs to be allowed to work in two ways, or to pay for that work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52106	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52107	So here's a colleague of Bodakoš just before you mentioned young people in which they pay the concession actually most often if they opened a private office credit-loaded. So I have one calculation to say that they pay for some 30 years' work of about 450 thousand kuna. So, the young man who opened the office, he must pay about 450 thousand kuna for 30 years, which is basically not settled, as far as she goes when his work relationship stops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52108	Replication response, Mr. Representative Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mrs. Tatjana, I think that what you're saying is a special investment issue, I've set an example for those who have worked and who haven't worked, you're an even better example. Here come young doctors, come people who want to open an office, especially in dentistry and family medicine, etc. and the question arises how much investment in such an office is in the opening of such an office. I think Mr. Secretary knows that very well, but so far there are many differences. For example, to say privateer himself, he buys himself a computer while he who is in the county or health home which is the founder of the county, he in some way is in the process of getting that computer because he as a county cares, he is the founder etc. Therefore, let us not prevent through this way and detimise that people go into entrepreneurship, to open jobs, to open offices, to open up anything that would enable better and better quality work for these patients, i.e. the lives of these patients. You have x examples to open, especially this in the City of Zagreb and in larger cities where it is normal to open offices because between one home of health and another home of health what is the distance, let's say in one Osijek. I happen to know that. Therefore, if there were no more individual offices, I don't know how it would be if everyone went back to that socialist system, everyone in the home of health and couldn't go anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52110	The final review of the applicant. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I said hello to the secretary of state. I didn't see him here before, so I apologize. Here's a colleague and a colleague, I'm going to say very briefly that I would like to point out once again that we are staying with all the proposals that I made in the opening statement because these are the proposals that came from practice. Each of these proposals is based on real life and the functioning of particularly primary healthcare, although I cannot be optimistic enough to expect it to be accepted. I hope that this debate, and everything that has been said, will also encourage the secretary of state to soon obtain from the government a reform analysis and a reform of the proposals that will include the solutions that we have offered today, especially in the field of improving mental health, the distance of the health homes to less than 50 km and, of course, what we are talking about today, which is the paralytic medicine. So, organized palitative medicine is in more than 120 countries in the world. We're rare that we don't have yet. Here I invite everyone to read Professor Stifanić's book on Death Culture, Dying and Grieve where they will see a lot of things they don't really know about hospices. So it's not the Long Resa hospice, today the hospice is a modern institution, an institution where not only helps dying people but also families. The president of the branch of the Croatian Paliatical Care Society from Rijeka, Dr. Morana Brkljačić, did an analysis and, according to her analysis, Croatia should have 4 hospices covering the continental Croatia, the Rijeka area of Istria, Kvarner and the island, Split Central and Southern, and Osijek in eastern Croatia. In addition to the hospices of this type, it would be good for every home of health to have mobile teams of palitarian care, for example. River. Rijeka and the county are jointly funding a mobile team for a million-dollar palitative care. This million kuna is therefore enough for the functioning of a Palitative Mobile Team in Rijeka, which last year cared for, for example. about 254 persons. The team includes both a doctor and a nurse and a physiotherapist and a psychologist, a priest, and thus actually allows death to be dignified. What many don't know, so hospice isn't just necessary for adults. For Croatia, there should also be two hostilities for children, because unfortunately children die, and it is rare for families with children who are in the terminal stage of the disease to really not be able to help them at this time. Therefore, I thank everyone for participating in the debate, for those who supported our proposal, and I hope that on the basis of our proposal, the Government will soon offer the Parliament concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52112	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52113	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. First question, P.Z. Number 485, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the conclusion that: The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act is not being adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal for a conclusion was adopted by a majority of 77 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 36 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52114	We are going to the next item - Final proposal of the Act on the Completion of the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 514 Proposer: A SDP representative club can be submitted to the amendments by the end of the debate. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Proposer representative, Mr. Representative Luke Denon will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I will try really briefly to talk about the reasons offered by the Club of Representatives of the SDP to deliver such a proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies. As you know, the Act on the acquisition of stock companies in Article 14 provides for exceptions from the obligation to publish bids for the acquisition of stock companies in the event of acquisition of 25% of shares of a particular stock company. Exceptions in this article of the law do not cover units of local self-government that acquire shares from the Croatian Privatisation Fund originally, i.e. that should have acquired shares when setting up such a stock company. Namely, at the time of the conversion of social enterprises in '91, '92. In cases where real estate was entered into into the capital of companies where the municipality, the ancestors of today's cities and municipalities were registered as a beneficiary, the municipalities at the time concluded that they had agreed on a programme for the conversion of social enterprises and entered into the capital of their assets, but did not receive shares. The assets introduced into the company's core capital remained registered owners of cities and municipalities which, of course, produced several years of court proceedings that do not see an end. Such a situation is unsustainable both for the further development and privatisation process of stock companies and for local self-government units in which they are located. Accordingly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision to give the units of local self-government 25% plus one share of stakeholders, thus allowing units of local self-government to take responsibility for the development of the economy in their area. In order to implement such a political decision, of course, it is necessary to supplement and amend the Act on the takeover of stock companies in such a way that, in the case of the acquisition of shares described, I repeat the described acquisition of shares, which means the original unit of local self-government is exempted from the obligation to publish a takeover offer because the units of local self-government are neither the objective nor the task of operating leadership and the masters of the company, but as you yourself know, preventing a change in the company's activity, possibly or a reduction of core capital, change of headquarters and so on. And now, if that is the case, then we realize that there are 13 exceptions to this rule in the law, we thought it was necessary to propose a supplement in Article 1 which, as an exception to the obligation to publish an offer for the acquisition of a shareholder company, makes the shares, units of local self-government or regional self-government by the Republic of Croatia or its bodies when it is prescribed by a special law and that such a unit of local self-government and those are then placed as an exception to the publication of the purchase. In the debate or in the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to which such a proposal is rejected, it is stated in any case that it would have some kind of feedback, that it is retroactive and that it does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. However, in accordance with Article 89(5) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia of certain provisions of the law may have a return effect for particularly justified reasons. And this is really about one of those legitimate reasons. I don't think it can be said that such a reason would fall under this for justifiable reasons. To clarify that for the time being, the only case in the Republic of Croatia in which a unit of local self-government or regional (regional) self-government has gained 25% plus one share of a part of a society on the basis of an earlier decision on granting consent to the property conversion programme and the introduction into the core capital of a society that carried out the conversion of '92. the year is the city of Opatija, and the signing of the Agreement on the Resolution of Property and Legal Relations and the transfer of 25% plus one share of the Liburnia Riviera Hotel and Annex of the Agreement in July 2007 and the signing of this Agreement preceded the Government of the Republic of Croatia's natural decision, not some other government, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the exemption from the sale of 25% of the Liburnia Riviera Hotel shares and giving consent to the Agreement on the Resolution of Property-Legal Relations and Transfer of 25% plus one share of Liburnia... In the city of Opatija. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that this decision by the Government and the signed agreement was intended to establish a better way of resolving the litigation of disputes, of course, which are held on ownership of the property or part of the property of the company in question. The transfer of shares to the city of Opatija makes up the value of real estate that has been introduced into the underlying capital and such acquisitions cannot be subject to the provisions of the Act on the takeover of shareholders but is already about the original acquisition. Such an interpretation has also given the Ministry of Finance, in its statement of 16 February 2007, to be precise, means that they were manifest in this case when we asked them that such a reason could be an exception to this law. Therefore, a very short article that could complete this law with that additional fourteenth article reads that a unit of local self-government or a regional (regional) self-government when, on its own or acting jointly, it acquires shares of the target society by the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Privatisation Fund or another body that manages shares owned by the Republic of Croatia is not obliged to publish a takeover offer. We think that it is not just an example of the city of Opatija, but of other units of local self-government where the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided that the disputes accumulated during such privatisation where the land entered the company's capital to compensate in this way and that through that 25 plus one share there is the possibility that units of local self-government should be monitored if nothing other societies in their area. But I did not get the impression that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, when they decided to take such a step, wanted such companies to be managed by local self-government units for which they are neither competent. Here is the belief that it was not added to the failure or confusion of signing this agreement and amending and supplementing this article of the SDP club's law. Here is the procedure for amending and supplementing this law in that single article.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52116	Thank you. The committees? The Legislative Committee? The Finance Committee, the State Budget? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mrs. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52117	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club does not support the proposal for a law on the takeover of stock companies with the final bill submitted by the SDP MPs' Club by an act of 18 February 2010. In particular, the current Act on the acquisition of stock companies is fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, i.e. Directive 2004/25/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on bids for takeover and as confirmed by the European Commission, since Chapter 6 of the company law under which the takeover regulation is temporarily closed. This law therefore proposes the addition of Article 14 of the current Act on the takeover of stock companies which would enable the publication of bids to exempt from the unit of local or regional (regional) self-government, when, independently and acting jointly, they acquire shares of the target society by the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, or other bodies which manage shares owned by the Republic of Croatia, which, of course, is not in line with the provisions of the legal property of the European Union, or Directive 2004/25/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on takeover bids. In fact, the proposed change is an inequality, i.e. discrimination on the capital market, and is contrary to one of the fundamental freedoms of the internal market, which is freedom of movement of capital. If the draft law were to be adopted and applied retroactively after adoption, Article 2 of the Law would lead to legal uncertainty for shareholders of a number of target companies and all participants of the capital market and, in particular, those who acted with confidence in the applicable legal provisions, and shares of the target companies acquired or released under the conditions laid down in the earlier applicable Act on the takeover of shares. This would open up the possibility of incurring the rights of shareholders acquired by investing in capital. This would also result in the suspension of the procedures for the takeover of target companies, in cases where, following retroactive application of certain provisions of the law, the obligation to publish the takeover bid would no longer be prescribed. In a concrete example, the retroactively amended provisions of the law would also be violated by the rights of shareholders of the company "Liburnia Riviera Hotel" d.d., which, in accordance with the provisions of the then applicable law on the takeover of stock companies, acquired the right to publish bids for the acquisition and purchase of their shares by the majority owner. Furthermore, it is also necessary to say that the proposed law would actually favour one type of state body, i.e. it would place all other participants in the capital market, i.e. minority shareholders, in a discriminatory position. Furthermore, in the specific case of the placing of the Authority in a more favourable position than others, although these authorities appear as investors. The individual case to be resolved is also finally resolved and this should be highlighted in the administrative procedure before the regulatory body, but administrative dispute is under way and there are still options for resolving the case. The proposed retroactive action of this amendment should also be said to be very questionable, since the final act in the administrative procedure has already been adopted, and it is very likely that this amendment would not be applicable to a specific case which is actually targeted by this proposal. Following all of the above, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community does not accept the proposal of the Act supplementing the Act on the acquisition of stock companies with the final proposal for a law proposed by the SDP Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52118	Thank you. Final review, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52119	Mr. Vice President, may I ask you a question? Is the Government of the Republic of Croatia still the majority HDZ, or did I sleep through maybe some elections, so now it's another government today? Maybe I slept through the election somewhere. Namely, when is this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52120	Maybe you've been taking a nap for a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52121	Because by reading and listening to the natural explanation of the HDZ Club, but of course reading the explanation sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am deeply convinced that it is still the HDZ Government, in which it is said that the government, the same HDZ, was only the President, and Vice-President Mrs Jadranka Kosor, now no Sanader, has Jadranka Kosor as president, means that the HDZ Government is on 14 June 2007 according to this explanation, but also according to this proposal of our law, the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Fund for Privatisation. ... The Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Liburnija Riviera Hotel Society, the city of Opatija, the municipality of Lovran, the municipality of Mosćinečka Draga, the municipality of Matulji, and all those represented in the city of Opatija have concluded an agreement on the resolution of property-legal relations, meaning disputes, and a transfer of 25% plus one of Liburni Riviera hotels to the city of Opatija, and anex of the same agreement on 26 July 2007. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I doubt that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, HDZ's Government of the Republic of Croatia, when it adopted such an agreement, when it was a signator of such an agreement in which the resolution of property legal relations was resolved in the way described here, that it held figs in its pocket. Because of course then they knew that if someone owned it and... gets property of 25 plus one share, that then HANFA must of course ask them to go into dispersion as here by law it was made about taking over. [[You don't understand.]] I doubt that, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia was then and the current HDZ government had figurines in its pocket, so little that they did a great idea of how property-legal disputes were resolved, and in any case there was a cat on the tail, because now the HANFA will have to publish it, of course not the task of local self-government units to manage companies, not one unit of local self-government, and such disputes in Croatia are very much. And the government's good intentions to help resolve the disputes that we have welcomed in this way is of course becoming questionable. It is unfortunate, of course, that there is much to write in the refusal, but it is sad and tragic that it is also Europe, and that because another 14 concessions will be added to the operationalisation of this agreement that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made will also question the European Community itself. I think that such justification and the bauk of Europe is something terrible that happens when something is rejected. Just back off, say no, and don't scare us with Europe's baukkah. We're staying with this proposal. I believe that Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, as current Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, had a good intention of adopting this bill since, as far as I can politically understand, she accepted that such an emergency procedure should go away. That shows she had a good intention. Obviously, in the meantime, pressures from some interested ones occurred, and then it gave up. This is not a good example of how the good decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the same government that was in 2007 and today, disabling themselves and I don't think it's good for all the disputes that are being conducted in local self-government units and other commercial societies of the wider Republic of Croatia. What's left of the message? The message is like this, the government will help you in a way that will sign the agreement, in a way that you will give up the disputes, but now there will be another government body, and that is the HANFA to say it can't be done. What's left for local self-government units? Take it back to the Privatisation Fund, continue to dispute, do not solve the problem of companies in your area because there is no hearing from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to confirm this one good decision in such a small, banal way so that once something can be launched in the Republic of Croatia. We stand, of course, that this law, to vote on this law. I ask you to try to think in such a way that it is your government, that these are the good intentions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that in any case it goes in favour of the units of local self-government and companies located in their fields and where disputes are being held. In this way it would be eliminated and, of course, one stopper and a driver of economic development in local self-government units would be real, not just fictitious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52122	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Madam Representative Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, the esteemed colleague Denona said don't scare us with the bogeyman of Europe. My colleague Denon, this is an absolutely incorrect allegation. We're not scaring anyone with the baukama of Europe. You know that we are in the process of harmonising legislation with the EU, and the proposed amendment is not in line with the provisions of the EU acquis and the directive that I cited when I spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club. And you should actually keep that in mind when you proposed this law. It's not our fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52124	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 11 p.m. when we'll vote on the debated agenda points. ... There's no debate tomorrow, just a vote to supplement the agenda and discuss the points. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, then go on next week. We're going to vote a little early, so if we start by some logic early, we're going to end up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-22-0.u52125	The final draft law supplementing the Act on the acquisition of stock companies was an emergency procedure, PZ No 514. Proposer of the SDP Club, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting in the conclusion: The Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act is not accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 75 votes for, 3 abstentions and 35 against.
