ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-17-0.u63345	We are now going to finish the debate on - The final draft law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 is proposed by the Government. All relevant committees conducted the debate. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Thank you. The committee's reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate that no one has signed up for, so in that sense, I'm closing it. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing Monday at 10:30 with those laws, with the 3rd point, the Final Proposal for a Rescheduling Law for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2011 continues on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-17-0.u63346	We move on to the Final Bill on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011, second reading, P.Z. No. 643, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. Score. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, no abstentions and 5 against the adoption of the final draft law on the implementation of the State budget. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. As we announced, we continue to work, and I would ask the representatives at the very beginning, or the clubs, that we will have to extend the agenda this morning, that is, to supplement the agenda of this session, and to ensure the quorum for the decision on it. So tomorrow we'll continue, but today some of the agenda points should be discussed. Here we move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Suspension of Pensions in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2011, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 644. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were filed by the IDS club. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary Kresimir Rogman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy. Here you go.
