ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48217	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, we have a report written a long time ago, but that's how the agenda dynamics came today. However, it is very interesting to hear this report and to read some of the conclusions of the report, as they date back to 6 months 2009 to see how much the National Council actually, with this proactive approach, referred to possible ways of resolving the problem of corruption, because a large part of the measures mentioned in these conclusions have actually started to apply. So three questions are crucial for our assessment of the ability and implementation of the strategy to resist corruption. The worst is the attitude that comes from the assumption that corruption is deeply rooted in all of us and that there is no point in fighting it at all. The first question we must always ask ourselves in an analysis of the implementation of the strategy whether corruption, as it is viewed, is the second one which is the breadth of corruption, in which areas are the most present and harmful, and when we know the answers to these two questions we are moving with the third one what to do in the fight against corruption. It is precisely the answer to these questions that is given by the anti-corruption strategy, which is of course not the first strategy, and based on an analysis of the previous ones, its effectiveness can be assessed by monitoring the current strategy. The first strategy was in 2002, the second in 2006 known as the national programme to combat corruption and the current strategy we are now implementing. I cite this because the National Council, whose report we have on the benches today, was founded precisely on the basis of a national corruption control programme in 2006-2008. What made this national council different from the National Council in the previous meeting, thanks to all the members of the National Council, is, I will use one Syntagma of the newly elected President Josipovic, this council has indeed been a cactus, not a ficus, precisely with the aim of constantly monitoring and encouraging the implementation of the measures described in the strategy encourages all implementing bodies to be as successful in the fight against corruption as possible. For the sole purpose of your information, and for the sake of the public, I'm going to state once again what are the powers of this National Council. Therefore, it monitors and monitors the implementation of the national anti-corruption strategy, systematically monitors the occurrences of corruption submitted by the authorities responsible for the implementation of the strategy, analyses the reports of the competent authorities on the implementation of the national strategy and action plans to combat corruption, and assesses the ways and results of the implementation. It proposes measures to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of the strategy, encourages and directs the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and of the state and other bodies, as well as other factors in charge of the implementation of the strategy. Its activities and the establishment of a national council shall strengthen the supervision of the authorities in charge of the implementation of the strategy. It is up to the National Council to consider proposals, complaints, views and opinions of citizens and legal persons, to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on its work. So what I want to point out is that the National Council is neither conducting investigations nor rulings. The National Council is encouraging and overseeing all those conducting investigations, calling for the fight against corruption to be as effective as possible. In order to further clarify, it should be pointed out that when we talk about fighting corruption and implementing a strategy, there are two bodies. It's the government's commission and it's this national council. Unlike the Government Commission, which was raised from the level of secretaries to the level of ministers which is an operational and co-ordinated body, the National Council is the supervisory body of this Croatian Parliament, and the Commission forwards reports to the National Council on the request of the National Council on the implementation of the National Council, on the basis of which the National Council then conducts discussions and brings conclusions, proposals, initiatives. I would like to point out in particular that the amendments and additions to the decision to set up a National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy have provided for even more quality conditions for the work of this National Council, both monetary, administrative, technical assistance, two employees, and there is the possibility of hiring two other employees who, in accordance with the anti-recession policy so far, have been granted, but given the large number of complaints from citizens who are arriving and who are not able to work in this composition of the National Council, it is likely that it will still be necessary to hire one adviser who would be dealing exclusively with complaints from citizens. During that year, 14 regular and 4 thematic sessions were held by the National Council. I am pleased to say, thanks to the responsibility of all members of the National Council, no session should have been cancelled because of the lack of members necessary for the decision-making of the National Council. Regular sessions analyzed the implementation of anti-corruption measures by all carriers of corruption control strategies, but what distinguishes us from the previous assembly of ministries, which are not direct carriers, but there is an increased risk of corruption in the portfolios that cover. As an example, I always point out the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, which, according to the strategy and action plan, was not an individual carrier, but a carrier within the obligations of all ministries, which proved from everything we saw as the wrong decision. What the National Council particularly pointed out, which is the need of a much stronger interagency cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior, the DORH, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration, and this is something that we certainly cannot be satisfied with at this time and that we need to take further steps in the closer cooperation of the Ministry of the Interior, the DORH, the USKOK and, in particular, the Tax Administration and the Customs Administration which, according to my assessment, but not only my own but also members of the National Council, but also people who are conducting a strategy at this point are not at a level that requires a more effective fight against corruption especially in order to resolve all those acts that have elements of corruption because the most effective method, we all know, is a trace of money. If a trail of money is followed, then there can be much faster evidence and allow our USCOCK verticals, therefore, from the police USKOK via the State's Attorney's Board to the USKOK courts that, as soon as possible, they have reached a final verdict and that all those provisions of the laws that we have amended are applied. The confiscation of complete assets acquired during the time of doubt, and there is no evidence of the origin of such acquired assets. In particular, I would like to highlight our four thematic sessions that are dedicated to corruption in the economy. It is the first thematic session to which the National Council has truly achieved one, I would say, and an educational approach. So it was at that session that the figure of 6 billion kuna damages suffered by the Croatian economy from corruption was highlighted. As this subject is rarely mentioned in this assembly, I would remind you once again how this figure came about. So that's the number of experts the Institute of Economics has come up with based on the World Bank's data. So in the world, World Bank research estimates that the scales of corruption amount to about $1,000 to $1,500 billion a year. Which is 3 to 5% of the total economic activity. By applying such a method to the Republic of Croatia, there is an estimate of the level of corruption of around 6 billion kuna damage to the economy. Given the amounts related to USKOK's findings over the past few years, about 2 billion kuna, it is realistic to expect that an estimate of 6 billion may be too low. The second thematic session held by the National Council, which was a thematic session dedicated to the media, showed that for the fight against corruption in Croatia all these years one of the key roles was played by the media and I thank them once again because many investigations might not have been so active in the role of the media, but on the other hand what we pointed out in these thematic sessions that the media itself can be sources of corruption, and therefore it is necessary to make certain legal changes that we have pointed out in our conclusions. Of course, I can't mention the thematic session dedicated to the problem of corruption at the university where we said that at the university there is a "blue envelope" professor of course a big problem, something that has to be condemned, but only a small piece in the mosaic of corruption that goes far deeper to the university. Also in terms of corruption in public procurement at the university, as well as academic corruption that occurs in the form of buying diplomas, in the form of ensuring progress through nepotism and corruption, and we expect a whole series of other thematic sessions to be held on this subject in line with the conclusions of the National Council. I can't get around whistles, so there are no quality investigations in the fight against corruption without whistles. The protection of whistles in Croatia is still not at the level that guarantees people to be more involved in reporting corruption because why would someone report a corrupt act when he is being beaten, endangering his life, losing his job. The National Council has made excellent co-operation with all holders of the Corruption Implementation Strategy. In addition to working with the government's bodies we have really very good cooperation with the NGO sector, I would especially like to highlight Transparency International, GONG, Association of Cities. As a bright example of this occasion, I point out the Committee for the Prevention of Corruption of the Varazdin County. We, as the National Council, encouraged local communities to actively engage in the fight against corruption because of course that corruption is always where the government is. Therefore, there is no corruption without power. At the national level for the fight against corruption, the current government is in charge above all, but local anti-corruption environments are responsible for local authorities. To this end, we organised a round table on the topic of curbing corruption in local self-government, and I believe that we have also shown some of the directions that should be further developed in the coming period in order to fight corruption more effectively. As far as citizens' performances are concerned, I've already said that at this point we can't focus more on each play in person. In that year, we received 70 plays that concerned the dissatisfaction with the decisions already made, i.e. by not moving investigations into certain cases that tortured the citizens. And one of the examples we set on the National Council was the case of Robert Matiević's performance in dealing with his application for oil and cigarettes smuggling. In which, at this session, we specifically pointed out once more how important the cooperation of the MUP, USKOK, DORH, Customs Administration, Tax Administration and one institution that everyone assesses in Croatia is its work in disaster, which is the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. So, on several occasions, the National Council wondered what the office was doing and whether it was actively involved in the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia. The work of the National Council has also been assessed very positively by the International Community, by the European Commission. Many embassies sought meetings with the president, the deputy president and members of the National Council. To mention France, Norway, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands. In the 2nd time on its work, the National Council met a delegation of the European Commission and the World Bank, and representatives of the National Council participated in several international conferences where they spoke about the experiences of the National Council and I can really say that the model Croatia has through this National Council is assessed as very positive. As president of the National Council, I have to thank all the media who really follow our work very well. And according to one survey conducted in Rijeka by the Ministry of Justice, students said that their knowledge of corruption, the problems of corruption in 90% of the cases are obtained from the media, and 70% of the students said they had no knowledge at school or any education on the fight against corruption. Which only further shows the great importance of the media in creating a single vertical in the fight against corruption. So, we in Croatia have a great legislative framework, we have a great USKOK vertical that goes with the police USKOK, continues with the state's attorney's office and ends with USKOK courts. This vertical has not yet functioned fully and that is one reason why when I evaluate our strategy in conclusion then as part of the council members and my opinion has not been fully harmonised. So we can be optimistic and pessimistic. If we are optimistic, we will say that the time since the implementation of this strategy is still too small to give a final assessment of this National Strategy, if we are pessimists, we will say that it is still not giving results. In conclusion, I would say that what we proposed in June 2009 I will read in particular to see how much the National Council has done with its discussions, its conclusions have indeed been proactive and shown the ways to improve the fight against corruption. So, in June 2009, the analysis of everything we've done has concluded: "Further start with the creation of a new corruption action plan in 2010 with clearly established deadlines for holders and implementation criteria, speed up implementation of judicial reform with concrete daily examples in the detection, processing and sanctioning of corruption activities as evidence of the functioning of the jump vertical, increase the confidence of citizens in state bodies, enhance inter-resorship cooperation of the Public Procurement Office, State Commissions for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, State Audit of DORH, Tax and Customs Administration and Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, further enhance inter-resorship cooperation of the Ministry of Public Procurement and DORH, include all ministries in the action plan as direct actors of the implementation of anti-corruption measures, develop specific action plans with clear deadlines, holders and indicators of Inter-resorship of Information in Public Security and Security and Security, in the need to address the need of the need of the law of the Republic of Croatia as well as the EU, the need to discuss the need of security, the need to address the need of security, the need to protect, the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of law and the EU, the law of law of law of law of law and the EU, the EU, the EU, the EU, the law of law of law of law of law of law and of law of law of law and of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law and of law of the law of law of law of law of the law of law of the law of law of law of the law of the law of the law of law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the The UN Convention on the Prevention of Corruption, and the administrative and professional strengthening of the work of the National Council." Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, if the records of this National Council are read if the National Council's stenograms are read in these year, the preclipins that have come out, then it must be clearly reported from this place that there is no room for the surprise of the Prime Minister, that in Croatia corruption has received such a wide dimension, that the corruption of octopus has been so extended, because the National Council has constantly pointed out this. I expect that the National Council will present very nearly to this Assembly the results of the work on the remainder of the period until today, where we will see that it has continued to do its work precisely with a basic goal, so to point out the problem of corruption that must not have party features. Corruption is everywhere where there is power, abuse of public authority for private purposes, and if someone needs to send such a message that no one in Croatia can be untouchable if it is involved in corruption, then it is this High House. I hope that in Croatia, when it comes to corruption, there will be no less, more and more untouchable than that all those who have in any way abused public powers for private purposes will be prosecuted, punished, and that the property they have acquired in this way will be taken away, because it will be one way that citizens will regain confidence in our jumping vertical and how then will be built and then another moral vertical which, in my opinion, is lagging behind the jumping vertical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48218	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Ms Marina Dujmovic Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48219	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In recent years, important steps have been taken to curb corruption. The Republic of Croatia successfully implements the objectives of the Anti-Corruption Strategy and is determined to prevent corruption at all levels. Just implementing a zero-tolerance policy on corruption, the government has proposed regulating a legal framework that allows for more effective prosecution, but also greater transparency in a number of administrative procedures. The anti-corruption strategy is fully implemented daily through the work of competent state authorities. It should be said that the disclosure of corruption is the consequence of the act of law enforcement services and is taking place within the framework of the government's anti-corruption measures. This is precisely proof that the executive authority is doing its job and that we have developed internal control mechanisms and consolidated state institutions. The procedures to be followed are addressed not only to the public but also to all public affairs, that corruption and abuse of public goods are not acceptable, and that mechanisms which will prevent and punish potential perpetrators act. By implementing anti-corruption policy, we create a favourable investment environment, raising the level of business security. The progress achieved is the result of political will and insistence on the consistent implementation of the action plan, and trust in zero tolerance towards corruption has been established and social control mechanisms have been strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48220	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Right at the beginning of his commendation to the National Council. The National Council is composed of representatives of all parties to the parliamentary majority and parliamentary minority. And they are all responsible for the good work of this Council. Besides representatives, there are also representatives of employers, trade unions, NGOs, academic community, experts and media representatives. I think the president of the National Council, Mr Jovanovic, deserves a special recognition, because this council has succeeded in affirming it. He managed to make one recognizable instrument clear and loud enough and public enough. It has not always been easy for me, he has come across criticism, unfortunately even within this House by MPs. But he managed to resist, he managed to maintain himself, he managed to make the work of this council important to our entire community. I'd like to go on behalf of the SDP club from one of the findings listed on page eight of this report. I quote, on the question of what concerns them most, which three areas would single out as the ones most concerned in Croatia in the GFK survey of thousands of people, states: "Economic, economic stability in the country 50%, job loss, increase in unemployment rate 36%, decrease in living standards 33%, increase in crime and corruption 23% of citizens" which suggests that they are still less concerned with real instability which can lead to an increase in unemployment, lower living standards and inflation. This is an accurate and very interesting finding of the National Council. In fact, the link between corruption and the drop in living standards, with the loss of everyday jobs, is obvious. Here, we heard the president of the National Council say that about six billion kunas in corruption disappear annually after questioning the World Bank in Croatia. Imagine what could be done with that money. Not just how many schools, kindergartens, hospitals could be made, how many jobs could be preserved, and we're witnessing 500 people losing their jobs every day, and today they're going to lose 500. It's 500 families left without bread, who can't repay the loans they've taken, which fall into one desperate situation. The question is whether because of the inability to repay these loans they have raised will be able to stay in their apartments, in their homes or be taken from their banks at all. Will those people end up on the street? Croatia's despair is spreading. That despair deepens every day. There's no getting out of that crisis, we can't see it. But one of the important reasons that this crisis has occurred and that it is deepening is corruption because it is running out of money. To save that money, to kidnap him from corruption, we wouldn't need this hack. We could cut some taxes, make more money for the citizens. We'd encourage money traffic, economics, keep jobs. That's why fighting corruption is so important. I dare say that she may not matter to everyone or at least not to everyone equally. As we speak here on behalf of the SDP club on this important topic HDZ representatives have left the assembly, politics is more important to them than the fight against corruption. I don't know if they've come out because they're afraid of what they're going to hear or come out because they're completely ingotious about fighting corruption, but they come out of the assembly when the National Committee's report on the fight against corruption is being discussed, and when it's speaking on behalf of the MPs' club, it's a clear message to the public, and that message reads, "The fight against corruption doesn't interest them.". Where does corruption happen? Everywhere. It happens on the road when someone bribes a policeman with 200 kuna not to write him a misapplication due to violations of the law, violations of the Road Traffic Act, happens in a hospital when someone bribes a doctor to take him into processing early because otherwise he would have to wait a year for a check-up, to process. It happens in colleges when you buy exams or when you go to summer school to get passed exams or diplomas. The most dangerous or widespread corruption occurs in the public procurement system. Why? Well, that's where the biggest money is. There's the greatest exposure to corruption. The National Council concluded in its report that it was not satisfied, so it did not accept the report of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and requested that the said ministry draw up additional analyses of corruption risks in state-controlled companies and, accordingly, individual action plans for each state-owned company, Croatian road, Croatian highway, Croatian railways. It seems completely justified to me, here in Croatian roads and in Croatian highways is huge money. As we can see, some investigations have been launched. As we can see, there is reasonable doubt that this public money was spent in a corrupt way. So where more logical than if the National Council asked for additional individual reports. What does the government say, however? The government said in its statement that the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is not the bearer of any specific anti-corruption measures from the action plan but only general measures. So why didn't he? So why didn't the government do exactly that ministry where the most money was, that the ministry of the sea, the sky and the country didn't have to do any special reports? The government seems to me to be acting like HDZ representatives, it's coordinated behavior, leaving the assembly or not in charge of the ministry must be directly involved in these anti-corruption measures. And that means that behavior, this kind of behavior encourages corruption, it encourages all those who engage in corruption to keep doing it because HDZ representatives tell them that when it comes to you, we don't care about the subject, so you're just stealing as you've stolen so far. Where is corruption possible? Everywhere, we said. Here's an example of the freshest, Croatian radio-television. There is a temporary situation, and there the interim director is now signing solutions and increasing salaries to some workers without any criteria, at his will. When the new director arrives, will he be able to suspend those solutions? No, they're not. They're bankruptcy rights. You can't take away a worker's salary because some temporary director approved it before that. The temporary state of the Croatian broadcasting was to be resolved, and is it resolved, it is not. And why hasn't it been solved? Because again, those who left the assembly refused to choose the 11th member of the council to make it possible to choose the right director. And that's how corruption is encouraged, and that's how you send a clear sign. We're not gonna pick you any 11 members, we're not gonna complete that council, you do what you want. Sign whatever solutions you want. HDZ representatives support you in this, you and all those who are in need of corruption. These are messages that are being sent. Could the fight against corruption then be successful when those most responsible, when those in power, and corruption always happens where the government is, corruption cannot happen past the authorities when those in power, who are the most responsible, behave in this way. In such a country with such a government and with such parliamentarians in HDZ, there is no successful fight against corruption nor can it be. We will go to the inauguration today in two hours' time for the new Croatian president. He also received his mandate because the pre-election programme most strongly highlighted the fight against corruption. Citizens recognized and voted for that part of his election program, among other things or perhaps mostly because of that part of his program. We can only hope, I believe, that the President of the Republic will be consistent, that he will use his influence, his authority of the President of the Republic to warn the Government that there is no such behaviour with the fight against corruption, and the SDP club from this place can only welcome and encourage the National Council and the President of that National Council to continue working this way. So as not to confuse them and discourage them that the representatives of the ruling party do not want to follow the debate on this report. Let them resist, let them do as they've done so far. They are neither conducting investigations nor, as the president said, nor are they able to arrest anyone, they can encourage all those in charge of fighting corruption to work better. The National Council has worked so well so far, I believe it will continue to work, despite these obstructions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48222	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48223	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept this report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Strategy, of course also with the government's opinion on some of the allegations contained in this report. Namely, the National Council as a parliamentary supervisory authority in the implementation of the fight against corruption or control of the implementation of the programme was established, i.e. it was established in 2006 in the first meeting and based on the 2006-2008 National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption. When we talk about political will, it is true that there have been anti-corruption programmes before, but here is whether the HDZ or the Croatian democratic community cares about the fight against corruption, of course and the political will is also saying that exactly the programme proposed by the Government of the Croatian Democratic Community and the parliamentary majority adopted in 2006 opened the basis for this Croatian Parliament to have a supervisory body for the first time to oversee the implementation of its documents at the level of the executive authority. In June 2008, this Croatian Parliament adopted a new Anti-Corruption Strategy as a long-term document, and the Croatian Government also adopted an Action Plan in June 2008-2011 with the theme of revising the Action Plan because each action plan is a dynamic document. It is therefore intended to be questioned at the annual level, to delete the measures that have been taken, to question the implementation of continued measures and to propose new measures, all for the purpose of implementing the strategy. Implementation of the 2006-2008 programme had a number of measures. Those measures have been met. First of all, it strengthened citizens' awareness of the need to fight corruption, that corruption as a normal social climate should not and should not be agreed on. Experience and implementation of the 2006/2008 programme This Croatian Parliament adopted a proposal for a new strategy and, in accordance with that new strategy in 2008, it made a decision on the establishment, the amended decision on the establishment of the National Council and elected members of that National Council. Maybe it's good for the public to tell who's part of that council. Therefore, in the Council's composition, the President is always of the order of opposition. The point is that the opposition to say so oversees the position in the execution of this strategic document. The vice president is from the ruling coalition. Three members from the ranks of opposition representatives and two members from the ruling coalition, and then they are fully equal representatives, one representative of civil associations, one representative of the union, one representative of the employers' association, a representative of the media and a representative of the professional public with a fully equalised vote, as well as representatives of the Council. What we can say today about this report first of all is that we are discussing here today in February 2010 in fact a report relating to the period May 2008 to May 2009. Of course, from today's perspective, we can see that a series of these measures that the Council has actually proposed have already been contained in the measures in the strategy, and the good part is already already in the action plan and has already been adopted in the proposal for a new revised action plan. I therefore believe that when we receive the next half-year's report, which is in line with this Parliament's decision from the previous year, we will be able to discuss a more current situation in the fight against corruption in Croatia. I was very pleased to hear from President Jovanovic, the president of the National Council, who here from this pay phone said that the fight against corruption must not and cannot have a party omen, as corruption does not have a party ideological status sign. And it needs to be fought in all areas and in everyone's backyards. And I would like to see such a devoid of any political observations we are doing systematically and consecratedly and at the National Council meetings, that those who are not used for quite the wrong purposes once in a while. I am also glad for the public that today President Jovanovic explained the final data that is being read, that is 6 billion kunas that disappear in corruption. That's right. Because we can see that now they're already at 8, 12, that they're hitting on these billions like it's nothing. However, I am pleased to say to the public that these are the world standards of the World Bank, which says that in global proportions, three to five percent of the overall economic movements are lost in corruption in world scales. So when this scale is applied to the size of the Republic of Croatia, then it is estimated that these 6 billion kunas would certainly be huge money and certainly Croatia should do and do everything to reduce this possibility of disappearing these money to the least possible measure, above all in the fight against corruption by preventing it. Because there is no effective fight against corruption without preventive action. Of course, there should be detection mechanisms, processing mechanisms, evidence mechanisms that we have witnessed that in the last year, a year and a half of days the legislative framework and resources have changed so that it can be done as well as from the number, the increased number of judgments and judgments, which means that the courts, so to speak, came more quality material. What I would like in this report to be, I may be in a double role now because I am also the vice president of that Council, but we discussed it on the National Council. So there are observations on the former National Council. This is unnecessary because the former National Council in the first session submitted a report to this Croatian Assembly and it was accepted. But what should be said in the report is in several places that this National Council has proposed some measures to further improve the fight against corruption. It would be good in the next report, and we will do our best to specify exactly what improvements it has proposed, which was proposed by the National Council, to whom it has sent this proposal and feedback on how much these proposals of the National Council have been accepted and incorporated into individual anti-corruption programmes. I'll look back on one of the thematic sessions. So the National Council also held thematic sessions with very interesting topics. Among them, it is said here that good co-operation has been achieved with the relevant ministries – exactly, representatives of the profession and the public – exactly, and that it has had a very good public response which raises awareness of the need to fight corruption, etc. etc. I would agree with this on everything. But it's not enough for our one thematic session to be followed by a series of cameras, a series of media, to write something about it tomorrow, and actually, the main problems that we've just opened up and that were then talked about without any further solutions. So let's just warn them. Because, in addition to overseeing, which is to be monitored by the Council, the implementation of the Strategy, this Council, within its tasks, is intended to encourage and direct and find further measures. We have had these thematic sessions of some conclusions that are very concrete, which are not yet available, but will likely be in the next report on whistles, on the media, on the conduct of media surveillance on who is due and why this law is not respected within editorial houses, the media and on this should also have feedback, I hope in the next report. We also have in our citizens' statements that there are approximately 70 letters whether they are addressed to the competent authorities for treatment would be good if the national council also presented answers, i.e. feedback on how the competent authorities have acted, even if they have not acted. Also here we may have an incomplete example of which a lot of people have been told about, this is the case of Robert Matiević, who was called before the National Council. It is concluded that the bodies have taken what they should have done, but that we are not satisfied with their speed. It may have been good to say, as we mention, that these cases Mr Matijević spoke of were masquerade to conduct in 2002, that many of these proceedings, which were referred to by Mr Matijević, were completed with the powers of judgments, some condemning, some liberating. So it would show that the bodies were taking their actions to the end. As far as the government is concerned, I would say that the only truly new proposal and a new recommendation issued by the National Council is that all ministries are involved in the anti-corruption agenda and the strategy, because at one point, it is mistakenly thought that all ministries will find themselves in general measures. Similarly, in the previous meeting, the Ministry of the Sea came before the National Council with a report on the measures it had in the general section and there was no objection by any of the National Council. There were objections when additional data were requested that the ministry itself should not have had at the time, but most members of the National Council decided not to accept this report, although the first action plans were drawn up in that ministry, according to individual holders of the ministry's work cycle. And that's why I think it's a very useful suggestion, so I expect that in the action plan, the following will be covered by all the ministries. And in the end, I would say that this parliamentary oversight, therefore, has proved to be good in the strategy, and I hope that we will have the next report at a more current moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48224	Thank you very much. It is next to the HSS Club and Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48225	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to speak without political connotations or some party omens, because this topic and corruption are general evil, or some of ours can say a free common problem, which we need to get rid of or be aware of to the least possible extent. There are numerous definitions of corruption, but they are all very similar and refer to the bribery of certain entities for their own gain or their own benefit. Corruption or bribery in a legal sense is a criminal offence of the abuse of trust or of a duty exercised by the administration, judicial authority, economy, politics, education and non-economic entities or organisations in order to obtain material or immaterial benefits on which there is no legal basis. Politically, the definition of a politologist is a violation of general interest because of personal interest. What kind of society they'll be depends on what kind of people they live in. The man, the one who designs, creates and finally realizes in one way or another, one or another political or economic program. The quality of these programs, as well as their ethics, will therefore depend on what kind of man he is, his moral integrity. Whether an individual or a social group is used by political, economic means to achieve general good or only individual interests. The purpose of each economic policy is to ensure optimal economic development and maximum well-being of citizens. The obstacle on that road is legal uncertainty and corruption above all. Corruption not only represents moral evil, but it disintegrates the healthy tissue of all segments of social life and inhibits its development. How to overcome this not only in Croatia, but also in the world a growing problem. Set an accurate diagnosis, identify the cause and make a prescription according to this diagnosis. Corruption is not something new, it is present at all levels and in all societies throughout history. There have always been those who have abused the public position for private purposes. In Croatia, corruption today, if concluded according to media reports as well as in public opinion, has crawled into all segments of society, as if it pervads all social levels. Gruntovec, Dubai, diagnosis one and two or the Index, mention only some of the operations carried out, are synonyms for corruption behaviour which is the cancer of the early Croatian society, which prevents its optimal development. The year's corruption has lost six billion kunas. The real damage is certainly even greater. If both exams and diplomas are purchased in colleges, Croatia is also poor in knowledge. It's the same with impoliteness, in... and elections in scientific, advancement and elections in scientific titles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We therefore welcome all the efforts that have been made so far to address this great problem. That the government is determined to testify that 85% of the 195 proposed measures have been implemented in a year since the adoption of the strategy and action plans. The state institutions of Croatia recognized the elements of corruption, decided to fight it with guidelines and measures, deadlines, models and the ultimate objective set. And that's conscious of corruption at the very least. Strengthening the appropriate institutional framework as a crucial factor in the successful fight against corruption implies appropriate coordination and cooperation between institutions implementing anti-corruption policy and their effective supervision. With a determined intention to take serious steps to prevent corruption by decision of the Croatian Parliament as early as 2006, the National Council was set up to monitor the implementation of the national anti-corruption programme, the work of which includes monitoring and monitoring the implementation of the national anti-corruption programme, to systematically monitor the corruption data provided by the authorities responsible for the implementation of the national programme on its request. To analyse the reports of the competent authorities and propose measures to increase the effectiveness of the implementation. Members of the National Council of the Croatian Parliament and representatives of employers, representatives of trade unions and NGOs dealing with corruption issues, representatives of the academic community and experts in this field of action and media representatives. It can be read from the report submitted that during 2006 and 2007, the National Council's composition then analysed 17 reports by the programme-holders. A new composition of the National Council was appointed in May 2008 and a constitutional session was held on 21 May 2008. During June of the same year, the Croatian Parliament adopted anti-corruption strategies, and soon afterwards, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an action plan with clearly defined measures, deadlines, institution responses and necessary resources. A plan which, through its programme of activities, follows an earlier strategy. In order to effectively follow the guidelines of the strategy and implement the action plan with the National Council, which is the working body of the Croatian Parliament and has a proactive role in monitoring the implementation of the strategy, the Commission for the monitoring of the implementation of corruption control measures as the executive body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the members of which the representatives of the bodies are responsible for the individual measures under the action plan. The commission is chaired by the minister of justice as the government's national anti-corruption co-ordinator. The Commission shall forward the reports of the holder of the measures to the National Council on the basis of a discussion by the National Council and shall draw conclusions and further proposals for a more successful fight against corruption. The adoption of the strategy and action plan strengthened the role of the National Council, which was renamed the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. Money has been provided, changes and decisions on the National Council have been made, and professional staff reinforcement is expected. With scrutiny of the implementation of the strategy over the past period, the National Council has encouraged and organised thematic discussions and has proposed additional measures to improve anti-corruption policy. Regular council meetings analysed the implementation of anti-corruption measures by all stakeholders of the anti-corruption strategy. Thus, the dissatisfaction with the results presented has been demonstrated on several occasions and greater effectiveness of the competent authorities in the detection and processing of corrupt works has been sought. The National Council shall monitor, with special care, the reports and results of the work related to the anti-corruption measures of all relevant institutions. The need for better cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior, the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK has been observed in order to resolve corrupt actions more effectively and adequately, so it is in this direction and on the day of the recommendation. The National Council of the Last Period has established good co-operation with the Ministry of Justice, as well as with the National Anti-Corruption Coordinator, as well as with the leaders of the USKOK and the State Attorney's Office and the Police Directorate. But also with NGOs, first of all we're thinking about GONG. In its work, the National Council is also open to cooperation with citizens and is sensitive to their problems as citizens and recognises and regularly address complaints and representations to the National Council to point out specific problems and occurrences of corrupt works. During the past period, 70 performances were received, which were discussed by the members. All citizens who addressed the Council received written answers, and for a significant part of the performances were requested to act in accordance with the powers of a given competent national authority. Furthermore, the activities of the Council have shown great interest in representatives of foreign embassies in the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission, the World Bank, and members of the Council have also participated actively in international conferences on the fight against corruption. The work of the National Council is regularly followed by representatives of electronic and printed media, which are regularly reported to the public and thus further sensitised to recognise corrupt phenomena. It can be concluded that the National Council has achieved a significant increase in activity during the observed period, that it has established good interinstitutional cooperation, that it has affected the positive climate of the problem of corruption through its action. We also positively assess the decision that the Council reports on its work twice a year and we support recommendations that have been taxed and listed at the end of the report. The HSS Club supports the report and believes that the National Council has more than justified its role over the past period in its activities and initiatives and interinstitutional cooperation, and we believe that such a way of working should continue in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48226	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I am informing the MPs and the MPs that after they have stopped work at 11:10, they would therefore be gathered here in the assembly room because they are making their way to Mark's square and taking their place. Because individually it's a little awkward to go, individually. So, it's good to all go. Now I have a dilemma, we don't have enough time for, like, 15 minutes for another club. If you think we have another club we can hear. And that would be Mr. Damir Cain, so please, if he can cut short, if not later.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48227	Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. So what do you say, let's say this report is interesting. And what may be most interesting to me is here on page 9, I will quote this because it is indeed said that "The global corruption barometer 2009 research and measurement of public perception of corruption has shown that the citizens of Croatia are the most corrupt of the judiciary, and the state services and the private sector, while at the same time consider the most common recipient of bribes to be police. In the Croatian scale from one utopia without corruption to five full corruption, citizens rated the judiciary 4.4 after the judiciary with a score of 4.2 followed by the state services, the private sector, and after them by representative bodies, there would be us, political parties that were rated with 4.1. Of the 6 sectors covered by the survey, Croatian citizens estimated that the media is least corrupt" etc. Now if this is true, ha citizens have some sixth sense, so those who are the most corrupt are now supposed to judge everyone else. Another line of interest in this report is that in the present time, and I think Mr. Stazic also quoted it, meaning in the survey of a sample of a thousand people, citizens say economic, economic instability is 50%. This is what they are most concerned about, then job loss, an increase in the unemployment rate of 36%, and a decrease in living standards 33%. The rise in crime and corruption cited as the biggest problem, etc. What's costing the citizens 23%. Here, that citizens are right to testify to the fact that some have talked about before. Every day in this country, 500 people are out of work. And now while we wait for the inauguration of those hours, the same will lose in that hour 30 of them work in this country. But what's not good is this, as I would say, this hysteria that's being created in this country when it comes to fighting corruption. Is he supposed to be arrested? Of course you should. Who? Anyone who took for himself a kuna or for his family. But you can't arrest the one who tried to help someone, I guess some subject survives. We now hear that in corruption in Croatia at the annual level, I think that these are excessive numbers, there is damage of 6 billion kuna. That a lot of money was alienated doesn't need to be doubted. Is exactly 6 billion, is there right now to stick to these calculations of the World Bank, about it at some other time. But I'm really not going to talk about it much lately, but I don't see it as promising. What's interesting is these evaluations of the judiciary. Now let's let go of the constitutional provisions on impunity, but how many of these "destroyed" proposals, how many convictions have fallen to the second step or some other instance, and we see no one because someone has ruined someone's life, then in this country doesn't answer. Should we, then, respond accordingly to the judges and those who write these accusing suggestions? Well, I probably would, but we know that the Constitution here simply exempts them from all that. But again, I'll say it one more time. Don't arrest the one who tried to help someone who didn't get a swear for himself or his own, don't arrest the one who tried to help someone else for his money. Let's just say one example. Is it, for example? Istria County clear with the city of Pula out there in '98. The year written off once to an Oliver's claim at the height of a pulse budget? We did. It's one, two pools, or I know one, two halls. Today if someone did, they'd end up in jail overnight. But if it hadn't been done, so that shipyard through the Istrian bank that was at the time owned by the Kutla and which pushed him into bankruptcy to get his claims out would have ended up in bankruptcy. If that had happened, the state would have had to go through the form of a guarantee or I don't know what in that period of 7, 8 years to the shipyard with 3,4 billion kuna, this way it didn't go with any kuna. What happens in a year with the Oilman? I don't know, but it just survived. Is that what local self-government was supposed to do? It's not. But it seemed and helped a single note to the state entity. We did the same thing with the Istrian Bank. The only one not recovered from the country, and if it had ended up in bankruptcy, not only through the form of the country's secured savings, should have paid 800 million kuna, but the citizens would have lost 800 million kuna and 3,000 jobs, four, would have pulled after them. So, if we were in Istria since '93. until 2001, have we worked in the interest of the Republic of Croatia or against companies employing 20,000 workers? And again here comes the time that simply no one dares to do anything anymore, and I think that the job of our representatives, the people of the government, the president of the state to these business entities in some way, so whatever the police and the State's attorney are thinking of helping. Why am I saying that? So here's the case of one of our colleagues and what happened to him yesterday. What do I call one selective blood leak in this country? We're playing with fire, the state is not going to say "decompression," but it's not good, the state has the impression that only repression can sustain this. The people want blood. Okay. What nobody does, I guess nobody cares. The fact that in five years we will have an external debt not of 45 but of 65 billion euros nobody cares about it again. Paying in five years is going to be twice as much as it is today, and nobody cares, etc., etc. So, to arrest yes but not to plant even though I would dare say that for us you Croat but also for Serbs, Bosnians etc., the Bosniaks let socialism give it to the soul. But what are we going to do? What's going on in this country today is not just good because I have the impression that the way things are going, there's no president of the state, no government, I don't know what's going to happen in an hour, which couldn't be in Remetinac, there's no minister who couldn't go to Remetinac, there's no MPs, director of a public firm, etc. Just so it doesn't all come down to plays because that political folklore we figured we'd finished it with Rankovic or someone else. All gentlemen today are in fear, everything is falling apart, the state is breaking up, and I am livingly interested in where it's going to end. Is Croatia a corrupt country? Well, it probably is. Are the judges and state's attorneys corrupt? In the opinion of our citizens, they say they are exactly the most. Are politicians corrupt? Well, they are, but less by that perception than some others, but this report on the other hand, we see it carrying a date until 30.5.2009, it was a relatively peaceful period, unrecognizable to this. But now what else is there to say about all this? I'll say it one more time, but not the gentlemen pack it. Arrest that, plant no and that be the essence of my step. On page eight, where the conclusions stand, the recommendations include the perception of citizens about corruption in Croatian society especially in the judiciary and state bodies. They point to the seriousness of the need to fight corruption even stronger, we agree, which is first seen in showing strong political will and then in implementing the strategy and action plans, although most of the measures have been implemented 85% of 195 measures or implementation is ongoing, we cannot be satisfied, etc. Can we be satisfied with this today remains to be seen. All in all, once again, I'm gonna tell you to arrest that, plant no.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48228	Only who will be the one who determines who is packing and who is packing, that border. And now to arrest all of our colleagues, Caine, would be a little out of line.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48229	... [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48230	And who wasn't packing? Tito didn't pack? ... He didn't pack, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48231	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Cain said there was no minister and representative who couldn't go to Remetinac. I mean, that's an incorrect quote. I don't know why my colleague Cain makes such conclusions. If he knows anything, then let him report it but with such statements that he pours daily as pearls from this pay phone, he undermines the profession of both politicians and all the people who are engaged in public activity and challenges citizens' mistrust with those who run this country. It's completely incorrect, unfounded what he said, not only that allegation but a series of other allegations, and he needs to apologize to all who do their job honorably because he has violated our reputation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48232	Thank you very much. If Mr. Cain wishes to apologize, we will gladly please him if he shows symptoms and signs of remorse. But it seems to me that by listening to him and looking at him is not inclined to do so, he is not inclined to repent. Just don't pack. ... Don't pack ours and others can pack. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're gonna break up. Continuing at 3:00 with a debate on behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. I'll meet you here at 11.10 p.m. and we'll go for an inauguration.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48233	HNS representative esteemed colleague Miljenko Doric. [[Home is not saved.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48234	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club will support this report, but not because the National Council managed to solve a significant part of the corruption problem in Croatia, but because we have to recognise our colleagues and outside members have managed to unearth the door and look and see what is behind those doors and where are the problems. I would just read with it a sentence from the report itself, as no one has mentioned it in the morning, on page 4: The National Council has shown dissatisfaction with the results of the competent authorities in the fight against corruption. Special attention is paid to proposing measures, improvements in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, USKOK, DORH, Ministry of Interior, Police Directorates, Supreme Court, Ministry of Finance, i.e. Customs Administrations, Tax Administrations, Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, Further Office for Public Procurement, State Audit, Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, Ministry of Health and Social Care, Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. So, almost all state institutions are listed, and apparently we have a great deal to do, colleagues and colleagues, but let's remind myself that my colleagues bravely entered this business and that they really opened the door. I'm particularly glad that the media followed your work and that, I would say, they joined that coalition in the fight against corruption. What is particularly important here is that at your sessions, at least it seems to me that I read it in one part, were present on a regular basis representatives of the DORH, USKOK and the Government's commission which is good, because if anything else, in this area you need a very coordinated action of all those involved in any way in the fight against corruption and this is a good sign. In the Republic of Croatia, it is precisely this lack of coordination and systematic access to almost anything. When we discuss economic policy, we do not have a systematic approach, when we are discussing development policy, when we are discussing fiscal policy, education policy, health policy, social policy never enough coordination. We keep changing laws, harmonising laws, then we make it clear from hollow to empty. Here I think you've achieved one harmony, one coordination, and that's good. The only thing we are, colleagues and colleagues, systemically, is that we must admit that corruption has systematically entered every port of life in our country. We have to admit, there's only one significant and systematic problem we have to fight now. Three hours ago, our new president said two sentences. I'll start with the first one. The foundation of justice is always us. It bothers me. We certainly are not our citizens, nor can we blame them for any of what is happening. Our primary responsibility, colleagues and colleagues, is to take over from me. When I say I mean politics and politicians. My colleagues and colleagues, we've been putting in charge of both DORH and the police and the judiciary and state-owned companies with whom we've been having a lot of affairs lately. Therefore, it is policy that is responsible and most responsible. We are also responsible for corruption, but we can also do the most in the fight against corruption. So we have to add these few sentences to the explanation of what the president probably meant to say. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, if the criteria for selecting the leaders of any of these institutions that I have listed genetically and partyly, then, in a very short time, there will be problems in the form of corruption. If the criteria for human selection are expertise, responsibility, knowledge, morality, then it is clearly moving in a completely different direction of society applying such criteria. It is our weakness, it is our great weakness and in almost every choice we are always in this assembly breaking spears between different political options, not professional and other who should be the primary and certainly we must assume our responsibility. However, I would not continue on about institutions, I would continue on about citizens. Today, relatively little has been said of them, and I think it is worth undermining Mr. Josipovic's second sentence: Courage always wins injustice. Is it always like that? This morning, someone linked corruption to a severe economic situation and a high unemployment rate. Some of us may agree to link it directly, others may disagree. However, colleagues and colleagues, we all agreed this morning, at least I listened very carefully to you, that around 6 million kunas get wings due to corruption in Croatia. If we know we have 300 thousand unemployed in Croatia, share those two numbers now. Divide 6 billion by 300,000. You'll get every unemployed person to disappear for corruption 20 thousand kuna a year. It's enormous money. Many of these 300,000 people are hungry, and by corruption we take away the unemployed, or we take away 20,000 kunas. I stress this in order to try to encourage your colleagues to really uncompromisingly go forward in the fight against corruption, to present such data because they are significant. Yesterday we talked about a legal gap related to the Law on Tourist Land, and I also showed there that our inaction fails to incriminate even that minimum of one billion kuna per year, which would mean another 400 kuna per head of the unemployed, etc. etc. If we're still going to install crime-related elements and what disappears through criminal activities, then we can clearly see how rich we are in society and how we can live without these clear malformations. I will finally tell you the story of one person, Mr Jovanovic, it is about our county, and regarding the information I read, that only 70 citizens have come to you. I think each of us shows up a few dozen people every year on corruption and crime times 150 parliamentary deputies. It's a total of several thousand cases. I agree that one part of that doesn't belong in this area. People don't know, so they clearly tell us what they're doing. But most of them were founded. And maybe we should work out how to channel these people, direct these people. What I do sometimes in the current morning, I ask questions for them, I ask clear and written questions, I direct some to the clear occupier, others to the county administration if it's their problem. We're trying to help. But I think we need to make some kind of step in coordinating to help these people. I'd say very brave people. The case that I'm going to explain, and then I'm going to conclude concerns the person who worked in a municipal society, she pointed out at the municipal society's assembly on irregularities of financial nature, she pointed out in her report to the municipal council. The result is she got that person fired. The person goes to court to seek clear justice. The municipal court, colleagues and colleagues, is returning her to work. The employer complains. The County Court confirms that she has the right to work because she merely pointed to injustices, irregularities that were her job. But when the case comes to the Supreme Court, then it's clearly a reverse verdict. Believe it or not, the person who pointed to financial irregularities in the verdict says that it tolerates and encourages criminal activities. Someone in the Supreme Court didn't even read the case, and they ruled or someone picked up the phone and influenced it. The person is clear now will be out of work for years, because more constitutional court must pass. He'll wait two, three years to then head for Strasbourg. The person will probably get the dispute, but what Mr. Josipovic said just before courage always wins the injustice. Perhaps true, but most often with an unacceptable delay. And we also have to think clearly about it, because we can't mess with human destiny. Maybe I should finish with three questions. Is it unusual, then, that our citizens don't trust the rule of law what you said? Why don't they trust the rule of law? And the last question is, are we colleagues and colleagues responsible for some of that mistrust? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48235	Thank you very much. And last application by clubs and distinguished colleague Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here's my colleague Grubisic. Before that, all I have to say is that it's time to apply for an individual hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48236	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would immediately continue this debate by referring to the arguments and what my colleague Doric said in this debate. In fact, we really need to ask why, why citizens in the majority do not trust in the judiciary and do not trust our legal system. As Mr Doric referred to the arguments in one individual case, I could, from my environment, list dozens of cases I have heard about and which citizens neatly tell us parliamentary representatives and me personally almost daily. But reactions from those or at least denials or one of those who would actually be obliged and in charge of these cases not being processed. So how come citizens who know that, who, then, I'm not going to say it with fear, but with a certain dose of one of what I said at the beginning of mistrust, are slowly whispering among themselves. And those people either say physically or legally about which they whisper are actually still doing what they're doing. So, they're still doing acts of suspicion, I have to say suspicious because there's no processing and there's no evidence that what citizens are, so I'm whispering loudly whether it's true or not. From the example where taxes are not paid for years and at high levels, from examples of reselling land of economic zones clearly on account, for the account and personal benefit or for the benefit of individuals, not the municipalities and cities or the county in which these economic zones are located. So up to the example of which we had the opportunity to read in a play that Dobroslav Paraga referred to in connection with the acquisition, the illegal acquisition of the property of one of his former party colleagues. And it's over, it's hung up on the cat's tail. Although it is fully evident and clear from the arguments that have been made that this was a rather suspicious operation. 6 billion kunas that Mr. and Doric spoke of here were presented in several discussions when there were talks about giving confidence to Mr. Bajic's attorney-general, so I think I also personally used the data and 12 billion, not the dollar pardon kuna, 6 billion kuna, says Mr. Doric, and there were also 12 billion kunas. The truth may be somewhere in between, but it has what doesn't just belong to typical classical corruption, but also to some other forms of so-called. A favor, etc., where millions, or billions of kunas, are lost, that don't flow where they should, which would be as my predecessor said and support would almost say, we could socially take care of all those, and that very well all 310 thousand unemployed, and there will be more of them, as the month goes by this year. So not only that, but we have a deficit of the state budget, of about nine billion kunas, and all of this is actually missing so that our country goes some other way. And here's these, like, some kind of, call a donation of 200 euros to buy an apartment, actually who's going to profit from it, whether banks, whether they're doing housing and they're dealing with housing, it's already a matter of some kind of future debate about this same topic or similar topic. I in this report, which in any case will support the HDSSB club and will personally support it, I wanted to point out or say what I particularly want to say on page 6 which is these 70 shows of citizens. I know that the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy is some kind of body that maybe recently gets or gets on one public promotion through the media, and here is through our parliamentary debates and steps of members of that national council, and President Jovanovic and vice president, and all those who are members, Mr Lesar, etc., that I don't now count, that I don't hurt someone because I left him out, but 70 plays is really something that I think is a little bit when we know that each of us would have a 70 year old, if not more. Almost every day, one to two mourning women, in that sense of corruption, bribery and everything else, I get on the phone personally or personally when I get to the field where I was going, so in Slavonia and Slavonski Brod. In public it is known, a well-known "whispering" association whose one member showed the courage that the current president Josipovic has also pointed out, and reported directly to individuals by name and last name, she lost her job, but I still, although it is one and a half-year-old struggle to achieve both her rights and her fox to the clearing, there is still none of it. If she's wrong, we'd also expect the public to know that she's wrong and her application to be rejected, but still nothing. Also on many portals, therefore to electronic media, there are portals that clearly and loudly indicate whether it is justified, deeply justified or superficial, on crime and corruption in Croatian society. I'm not going to mention that I'm not making a commercial for one portal, which is almost exclusively about this matter, but if it's only 5% of what that portal says is true, then not that we lost 6 billion kuna, but 3 or 4 times more. Who knows how much, and who knows where all these coins ended up in various island groups and archipelagos in the Atlantic and Pacific, the Indian Ocean, and here we are discussing whether or not we accept it or not, clearly that I am confident that this report, but I expect the National Council to further strengthen its promotion in the public through the media to make it known that this national council exists, and that it is then a transmission according to what it says here on page 4, so according to the Ministry of Justice, USKOK, DORH, the Ministry of the Interior, the Head of Police, the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Finance, and that I do not list, etc., according to all those who can conduct any internal investigation, either in the sense of this criminal law, in order to establish individual cases of corruption. In any case, I want to tell the National Council even more productive work, even more success in the fight against corruption, and we will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48237	Thank you very much. Now he answered for the word on behalf of his fellow counterpart Jovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In all several sentences, since this was the last club, and primarily in connection with the last two debates concerning citizens' roles in the fight against corruption. Of course, the role of citizens is crucial because in order to prove a corrupt act, we must have citizens who will report and actively participate in the whole investigation process that will ultimately allow for a judgment. 70 applications received by the National Council are written reports. Of course, each of us has countless phone contacts with citizens. What I want to point out is that once again, the National Council does not conduct investigations, the National Council does not rule. The National Council is obliged to monitor the extent to which those who are bearers of the strategy accomplish their task, and we should be the last instance to which citizens will address when they are dissatisfied with the applications they have made to the competent authorities. At just one of the last national council meetings, we agreed that we should see and compare the reports received by the police USKOK, the reports received by anti-corruption, it is not me, so the portal that the Ministry of Justice and the National Council have to see to what extent these complaints are repeated so that they are as effective as possible in achieving the precondition for citizens to appear and make complaints about the fight against corruption. So the National Council will never be a body to conduct investigations. It will be a supervisory body, which I hope, in the coming period, and based on your observations on the course of the session so far, will try to employ an employee who will be dedicated exclusively to complaints from citizens, to be able to answer even more quality to that part of the job. I am aware that our capacities so far have not been able to do so, but so far it has been a priority to show that the National Council is a body that really oversees the implementation of a strategy with a fundamental goal of making the strategy as effective and as quality as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48239	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague colleague, Dragutin Lesar, also applied for the debate. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. My first finding refers to the fact, and I find it sad, that the Croatian Parliament is only discussing the report of our council now. I remind you that this report carries on it the date of 23 October 2009 and the fact that a report of this importance by the Parliamentary Authority had to wait five months, four months and a few months to come to the debate shows how much the ruling cares about it in the Assembly. And this postponement of the debate goes to the heart of the President of the Parliament or of the one or those who decide what will be put in place when it does not matter. Second, everyone who wants to tell me something, come in and then talk. Don't throw it away 'cause it'll turn out again that someone seduced you at secret meetings. Until a few months ago, members of the ruling majority council tried to interpret the role of the council as a mere notifier whether the bodies in charge of the adoption of an act or regulations adopted it or not. We should have been, in their view, a body that would put the clutches in squares next to the name of the documents that we had to bring because Brussels forced us to do so. The mere records of the adopted document and nothing more. We did, but for some other reasons, prove that the council's role is to monitor, monitor and analyze. Not only the adoption of documents, but the implementation and effects they produce. For some, it is still, unfortunately, not clear. However, after my colleague Lovrin's debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, I had to completely change my debate because I was consterned by what I heard, what I heard. counterpart Lovrin said the HDZ club will support the report while accepting the notices of the government of the Republic of Croatia. What notes? Those written in the government's opinion of 21 November last year in which it reads, be careful now: "in relation to the works of the report relating to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the non-acceptation of their report by the National Council is unwarranted for several reasons." The government sends a letter to Parliament saying that the National Council, which is not only composed of MPs, unwarrantedly rejected a report by a minister. What is this? Is this the government redefining our report? Why should the Government be entitled to evaluate the conclusion of the National Council, whether it is justified or unjust. Who dared to allow her in this government to give lessons to the National Parliamentary Authority? They may express regret, incomprehension, anything, but to claim that we unwarrantedly rejected the report of a ministry is inadmissible government behaviour. And secondly, since when and by what provision does the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament vote on the government's opinion? This is an opinion that can't be decided and doesn't oblige me, but it's not true. That's part two of the problem. There's nothing accurate in this report, nothing accurate. Why? In a report by Minister Kalmeta, or his ministry, the National Council discussed 15 April last year. Watch out, April 15th last year. What kind of report is that? Cultural memos and 2 pages and 1 verse of bureaucratic tables, that's what we refused. No minister, not a single member of the government has dared, dared with such an unlawful report to come before the National Council except Minister Calmeta. He came before us with that. Not him, he sent State Secretary Livakovic. He didn't come, and two more of his associates. This is not a report, this is a statistical record of the adopted documents, decisions or orders of the minister. Nothing more, there is not one word about the results of the fight against corruption in that portfolio. What did the National Council do? I have here a phonogram of that famous session. Six members of the National Council have asked 18 questions to the secretary of state and his associates. For example, I asked the question "Is there an internal surveillance organised in the ministry in accordance with the law?" Secondly, I asked if they were following, whether they had internal control and what the results of this control were in administrative procedures, because this ministry, if not by the number of administrative procedures, is the largest in the state. Which is also recognised by one of the ministry's representatives. I asked how it was, what was done in 2008 to remove the irregularities encountered by the State Audit for 2007? Which is why they only got a conditional opinion, and for 2 reasons, I only now single out 2 out of 247 concession contracts 46 were not included in the book, and 26 documents were not completed and concessions were given. More than 10 million kunas were purchased under the law. What did you do in 2008 to eliminate the causes of non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act? For example, there were questions we were looking for answers to. In the written report, not a word of this in the oral answers we received at the session, they mostly referred to the fact that the representatives of the ministry were prepared to answer all questions in writing, systematise them and deliver them to the National Council, listing in April last year some of the activities where they themselves identified some of the corruption actions such as those toll cards, about tunnels and others, and not a word at that time. However, there were no key questions and no answers to the data and we couldn't get them. We did not get an answer to any of the questions asked by me and my colleague Horvatic and other fellow members of the National Council. I asked the Ministry's representatives then to withdraw that report themselves until they completed it and then came with a complete one. It didn't work out. We had to vote, and by voting, we refused the report. President Jovanovic then found that the report was rejected and the ministry must "a) give a supplement to answer the questions asked, quote from the phonogram and b) a supplement on public companies from the portfolio." The government now also argues that the ministry did not know what they had to do and that on 21 September 2009 they would submit an answer to the question b), public enterprises, expand, supplement their report only for public companies. And on all matters related to the ministry, internal surveillance, administrative procedures and the findings of the State Audit, neither in September nor in response. And the government says we unwarrantedly refused the report. If you allow this, colleagues and colleagues, with the independence of the work of the National Council is the end, because whenever the Government is not satisfied with one single one, and that seemed to be the only case where the report of one ministry was rejected, such a locked National Council will cancel the ruling majority in Parliament and say that we were wrong. Mr. President Jovanovic, I also believe that you must stand up in defense of the independence of the work of the National Council, because if it really comes to the vote to argue that we have unwarrantedly rejected the report drawn up by the bureaucratic two tables of a single sentence, then tomorrow after the vote I will resign to the National Council, because I cannot allow the executive authority to give the parliamentary body lessons on justified or unwarranted treatment. I don't want that kind of insolence. I can't allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48241	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to talk about the subjective reasons of someone's consternation, but I'd like to correct the allegations where my colleague said the ministry filed an illegal report. Irregular report would mean some illegal report. It's about the report. ... I'm sorry, I've heard it wrong. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And if I have heard unlawfully, then the report submitted is exactly the way it should be submitted according to the strategy. This ministry is not the bearer of specific measures, but according to general measures on these two sides, which as shameless as they show, have written what has been done by the measures and the strategy. It was true that the question was asked, how many administrative oversights were submitted in the ministry and a number of more detailed questions, which the ministry said was ready to answer in writing, as well as here when the government cannot immediately answer the offer of a written answer, if it has not answered so far, we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48243	Shameless, not lawless.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48244	Thank you very much. So we all agree that it's legal, and we can discuss this embarrassingly. On behalf of the applicant, a colleague, Jovanovic, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48245	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's my commitment to react to what fellow Lesar was talking about for the simple reason that, as president of the National Council, I consider the National Council to be a parliamentary body. A parliamentary body that has really special powers, special responsibilities and, of course, this National Council is gossiping about its work only to this Parliament. and can only accept criticism from this House. Therefore, the note referred to in the Government's opinion is a completely non-binding note for the simple reason that everything said at that session on April 15th proved unfortunately accurate, because all those affairs that showed to what extent was the wrong approach to the adoption of a Strategy to combat corruption in which the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure was not the bearer of implementing measures, and no body, no institution, no company that was in the portfolio of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure at that time had elaborated action plans to prevent and combat corruption. It was only done at the end of last year. Therefore, 6 months earlier, the National Council has pointed to these problems and has once again shown that if this proactive policy is consistently respected by those who are in charge of implementing the Corruption Prevention Strategy, they can produce results with which we will all be satisfied in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48246	Thank you very much. The debate followed by distinguished counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48247	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I support the report on the work of the National Council for the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for this period from 21 May 2008 to 30 May 2009. I was a member of that council and in the last meeting, and I have this grace and the possibility that I can assess what the work of that council was like in that past meeting and what it is like in a meeting run by Zeljko Jovanovic. That's a big difference. After all, I don't need to convince you of that, because the council had almost no idea about it before. He didn't know there was, or where he was stationed, who was in charge, who were his members, and what was his role. The very fact that the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy since it was headed by Mr Jovanovic has been given and has gained the citizens' trust above all, and I am most important to us also to the members of the Council but, above all, to us in the Assembly, to all members who are not members of the council, who cannot fulfil that task to be very critical when discussing the work of individual ministries, rather than to be his spokesmen and advocates, means that they cannot bear the burden of being a member of this National Council and that was. However, because of pressure from the public obstruction in the councils that were on the inside, and above all, there is less and less and that is something that encourages it. It is one unity and unity that was not easily won from the beginning. It prevented the real work of the National Council. However, this is obviously the end, no matter what anyone thinks, what motives he has but under the pressure of the public and the address of a large number of people who address the National Council directly commits and I repeat encourages. There are more applications for corruption that citizens submit to the National Council than USKOK. It's something the government has to worry about. However, there should not be a competitive relationship there now. In any case, it's good for people to gain the trust of institutions. And by being the voice of the people, it had to be the National Council and to change its Rules of Procedure as well as its basic tasks which had been almost bureaucratic for him from the beginning of the first Rules of Procedure and for his work, so that we would simply listen to what representatives of individual ministries, individual other institutions referred to us, and to be content with it. Just by taking over not only would I say a proactive but very active role, as was the original intensity of the Parliament to give that National Council the task. The worst would have been and there have been these cases, I will repeat it once more just so that it would not have happened again if the struggle with corruption from the beginning seemed from some factors at the verbal level and the stronger it was, which was the arguments of the high decibels in the speech that in the works were almost equivalently proportional in the works. So she was from the beginning of some structures to fight corruption with a fig in her pocket. I am this data that the President has initially subdued to us here and presenting the essential elements of this report and, in essence, the work of the National Council for this past period has specifically articulated and highlighted this indisputable fact that it fails because of corruption and damage to the economy itself, and that means, in the extreme line, all taxpayers and even wider, all citizens for 6 billion kuna is something that is alarming. All those who want to reduce that fact or increase that number in order to offend this alarming fact are in conflict with facts and our policy must be our very commonity, regardless of political colors, so that, based on facts and objective indicators almost exactive, almost tangible hands, we can deal with this monster. I will especially not be longer and I do not repeat it because there is no need for all what my colleagues have said before and I am on my own President Jovanovic's point proposal because I still believe that the National Council, if it does not have it, is not a formal proposal but if it proposes measures to improve the fight against corruption, if the law is not a measure or a bill of law, or which should at least change in the fight against corruption, then what is it. Then all those who consider that under these measures is not a legal solution that does not have to be in the form of amendments and those of some of the formalities that our Rules of Procedure has but in any case hear the voice of the National Council as we finally see it contained in all the reports. Let's just remember the report by the public defender who is speaking and now rightly points to the necessary needs of the amendment of the Constitution itself so that it would not only be a shoulder to cry but also create some operational possibility that it can solve the difficult fates of a particular citizen. So it seems to me that we are deficited in the very normative part of the fight against corruption other than those classics we do not have, I insist on it in particular, because unfortunately I can conclude that in 2003 we had a modern economic incrimination without everything that our people rightly cannot understand and accept with the full right to do something, so when the state budget is poored, when workers are not paid, when it is not paid by suppliers that it is simply declared to be a bad administration and no one, that it is the most difficult crime to fake anywhere in the world to sanction at least 20 years in prison, that we still have no sanctioned. It encourages, however, the fact that the justice minister has announced amendments to the Penal Code where this crime will finally be found without which there is no real fight against corruption. All that can be sanctioned, are the products of those fundamental activities that remain and today beyond the reach of criminal-legal repression. And that's what's worrying. But maybe it's the fact that all the good solutions have only one bad quality, which is that they're being brought in late. Unfortunately, for seven years we could have had court practice created, everything that burdens us today, which burdens political life in general, and even the political life of certain political parties could have been solved long ago. Here, I especially appeal to this, and I believe that there is already such a consensus here among us that when such a proposal comes, but we will continue to do so as members of the National Council who are constantly alerting such a single amendment, and that has been the case so far. I would especially like to say something that I think deserves attention, which is that in the National Council, the doors of the National Council have been opened, that there has been room for people who have been excommunicated, disqualified, on the margins of society, friends, professional organizations, almost even families themselves because they dared to be brave, because they dared to tell the truth. That's what they paid for their work, they paid for it with outstretchedness. We are here today in the president's inaugural speech, and it has impressed us all, of course, perhaps a little less political elite and more citizens themselves who have followed it and have come across the approval that we need more courage, more perseverance. The more we're out there, the more we're not gonna shut up. So it's important, then, except for this formal part that we have more or less, except for some of those that I just mentioned deficits, but more or less we have a good frame. So we need more of this strong political environment in which this fight against corruption is taking place. The more responsible they rule, the more responsible they are, and the more important it is for the ruling. What they are responsible for, what they think about the position of independence of the judiciary, what they think about the position of one in society and the protection of its rights and virtues, especially when it appears as a voice of loneliness in the desert and when it yells against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48248	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of a distinguished colleague of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. counterpart Davorko Vidovic next applied for the debate. He's giving up. Thank you. My colleague Vesna Škulić. She's gone. colleague Željka Antunović. She's gone. And she's losing her right to argue. A colleague of Silvano Hrelja. He's gone. And he's losing his right to argue. A colleague, Krunoslav Markovović. He's here. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State. I came in a little bit of a turn, and then I've got to catch some air before that, take a breath. Today we breathed all the fresh air and we heard countless times the word corruption, so it's also logical to talk about it here. Obviously, corruption is the main issue in this country and it is a pity that we are not some kind of top in Europe with this corruption because our environment is just as much as we are, because in most European countries corruption is also the same as in the story. But it's best if we spray the ashes ourselves, because at least we'll be the first in Europe for something. So if we're looking at the report itself, the report here is systematicized, he's in line, we've seen how many sessions, which were discussed at the sessions, so we've seen the topics, we've heard the president, a whole series of things he's doing. I'd just like maybe one recommendation from the Committee on Conflict of Interest. We also get anonymous letters and complaints there. I guess the people who send it send it to a series of addresses, but we're not discussing anything until we hear the opinion of the one who's been sued. And that kind of thing changes the situation significantly. Because if we're discussing an hour or two, we can discuss some of the blackest and the worst, and we haven't listened to it, then I don't think the treasure is fair, so I guess that's how your National Council does. Generally following this together, I believe the council will contribute credibility, but I'd be delighted if the president himself were credible. Because it seems to me that in countless cases, at least I was a witness, abuses the situation by attacking another political option on behalf of the SDP. In that case, I, a member of the SDP, should say, argue that this is the case, and not that I will hide behind the president's seat, I don't think the treasure is convenient, but it's not convincing. Because in that case, people are looking at their daily bickering, and we're used to it by following Parliament's work anyway. As far as corruption itself is concerned, I believe that corruption is in all parts of society, again I speak as in many other countries, that we have seen in order how it already goes not only in state enterprises, that there is also in local self-government, that there is here we have seen in colleges, that there is also in science where the pharmaceutical industry predominates primarily in various ways, if nothing else then by bribing doctors who travel through all the world's resorts in the form of seminars, and they have a seminar hour to two in a week. So, it's pure corruption and I think that the team is under-worked, if by profession is a doctor and it's very well-known all the expensive best maybe knows from all of us. So the fact is that it's also all, we saw yesterday and the attack that as soon as we touch the SDP immediately we react that it's actually doing some balance still. I argue and repeat here until the end that in 2002, corruption, years of crime, years of public procurement without public procurement were applied, so all sorts of things happened. Unfortunately, I had a chance and a break in some way that I was in committees, so let's remember there was a POS building where there was crime, corruption, a crossover of contracts, a date that crossed the basics, so it was under seven annexes and nothing like that. So we won't mention that time. If a hundred million, what I know at least was that it was without procurement, covering government decisions, so unsuspecting procurement, we're not talking about it. I'm sorry you weren't a colleague and your crew, a little longer in power, you'd probably give a lot more of that list, but I think what happened was too much. ... Here we hear, here's a colleague mentioning cactus here, that it's not a ficus, it's a cactus company. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We've heard a whole series of other things. One journalist told one of your colleagues that SDP's pit bull, so then we hear here a colleague said I could be if I needed to be a beast. Try to be an occasional human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48250	An esteemed colleague, Davorko Vidovic, came forward to correct the allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48251	I'm correcting an incorrect allegation already notably incorrect and incorrect allegations that this Mr. MP has repeated here again and I warn that what he has now said has committed a criminal offence against non-reporting crime which is severe, he has said a hundred million kunas for which he knows of Eura. [[Intruder: Eura.]] If he knows that, and he didn't report it, he committed a crime. It was his duty. If it is not reported, then and if it is not procedurally necessary to say what is being processed, who is it, when, where, and in what way it is otherwise determined, it is about the most ordinary disqualification, political counterfeiting and something this Assembly should not suffer. That is not the way to talk in Parliament. You can talk about it in the bar, in the village, but you can't go to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48252	Comrade Vidovic, you haven't fixed anything. You accused your colleague of not asking him if he reported anything or not. He answers that even though he didn't get the word. My colleague Lovrin says the Rules of Procedure have been injured, but I can see he's dropping the plate. And we're going to replica two. A colleague, Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48253	Of course, it is not the first time in this House that I say to Mr Markovanovic that we carry a great burden on the situation in Croatia and developed corruption. And you are an outstanding example of such a fellow MP. With our discussions, we do not want to deal with what our working body is dealing with and we are trying to fight it. No, it's yours to try lies, lies, and that people's lie to keep a thief from disrupting the fight against corruption. That's how I'm experiencing your debate. Not the first time, not the last time. You don't care what happened from 2004 to this. No, you think corruption was born during the coalition government. Politically irresponsible, uneducated. It's a way of communicating. It's a way of communicating. Just keep going, Mr. Markovanovic. Show that this House does not want to solve problems. No, we want to load them with phrases you keep a thief. You're the only one yelling at Mr. Markovanovic. Just show face to the citizens of Croatia what this House looks like.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48254	Replication response, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48255	Well, I thank my colleague Linic, I didn't expect him to answer. Because finally, Mr. Linic is a political mentor to his colleagues, Jovanovic. And I'd like you to share some of those experiences I've been talking about with him. So, I'm behind everything I've said. We'll prove that's what I'm talking about. And I'm deeply hoping that the State's Attorney's office in all these reports will come out to see if it's our applications and that they'll start investigating all this stuff that needs to be done. Therefore, he repeats himself. What I'm saying is I keep it that way, I'm sure it is. We have countless evidences, I've seen countless contracts from your period, and what you've released to a coalition partner who's been working on building POS apartments and doing what he wants to do, so that you can do what you want with the INA and HZ Supervisory Board. So every coalition partner did whatever they wanted. And therefore, you failed to bring together all those laws that my colleague Ingrid said about. Yeah, I should have brought them in in time. You didn't bring anything. You're just... Oh, yeah. [[Intruder Antičević Marinović, not understood.]] Nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48256	Okay. There's a People's Newspaper. It's easy to add up, see what it is, where it is. The following has been reported by distinguished counterpart Miljenko Doric. Here's your colleague, Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48257	Not for the debate, but for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48258	For the replica, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48259	Let us not be comforted or justified by greater corruption in a neighbouring country. Let us not be comforted or justified by corruption among members of another political option. I ask you today and forever to think only of those who suffer from corruption, which is who we represent here. And all those who have committed acts of corruption, and yours and ours, fall behind bars.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48260	Replication response, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48261	Well, here's my esteemed colleague, Doric, I'm not comforting myself at all. I'm just saying that there are sins both of them, and it turns out that in fact, a colleague of Jovanovic exclusively all sins, when he mentions sins, then looks at our side here. So now we're in power. Here, without the soufflé, it's hard for me to do this, but thank you. According to that, no comfort. I know everyone falls down regardless of name and name, and I couldn't agree more. I'm afraid the prisons are too small until it's all settled. But the fact that in many other countries is amazing... quietly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're at all the bells whoever comes from outside, here I am sometimes accompanied by someone and somewhere, we're just talking about, spraying on the ashes and talking about corruption. So what are these people really gonna think when they get here? And at home, we have the same problem. He'll say thank God.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48262	Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here's my colleague Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48263	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. After a few years in which talking about corruption has been treated almost as a donkey tail or even a sadomasochist reference has been made to those who say they want evil to their country, to embarrass us and mud us by saying that there are problems with us, and we should keep quiet about it. For there are others who are worse than us, and behold, they do not answer. And why, then, that gossip and summoning of something that is so pleasant to live without in public. After all these years we finally got into a situation to say the Emperor is naked. And how hypocritical it is when the story of corruption is set in one's political laps and party belongings, usually transferring the ball to another's backyard as if the people of Croatia were blind and deaf, so they can't add up that 20-4 is 16. So 20 years minus 4 years is equal to 16 years. So if someone did evil corruption, violence against the law in four years, more than they did in 16 years, they were great masters. And is it time to talk about corruption like that? Is it not those who are now in rooms with a view of a line or a line, that there are among them those who have changed the parties two or three times? Aren't thieves always close to the authorities? Well, isn't that by definition? The time has come to look into the truth in the eyes and that the Croatian Parliament will do everything it can for all those who still hope that it has been long enough to forget what they have done and those who have recently done so hope that there is a limited capacity of the State's Attorney's Office will not come knocking on their door, yet to continue to sleep uneasyly. It is the task of the Croatian Parliament to do everything it can, through its body, but by supporting all others in the system who care about curbing corruption, so to enable them to do their best and to encourage them, not to argue with each other here who contributed more to this situation. The citizens will decide that very soon. We should look into the truth and say that our modern, independent Croatia has since its very beginnings, unfortunately, been an ambience in which it was encouraged and in an incredibly creative way spread corruption, from the very beginning. So whether our country's first political elites were independent in their own style, rhetoric, political clientelism, they encouraged exactly what they're booming today in all kinds of ways or explosions in the stomach of our political nation. So isn't the conversion and privatisation of the environment in which the worst forms of corruption occurred? Isn't it when you allow someone to buy their own money without swearing, to gain great wealth, which was called social property, and turned overnight into private, so isn't that a good guess? Isn't that corruption? So how many of those who have come to such great value, who have been returning their debts to political elites for years later. So are those huge cases of political corruption, buying, stealing mandates, seeking, acknowledging whether the representative body in Zagreb has the right to choose a mayor or not, and then five times collapses for mayor. Wasn't it an ambience that allowed corruption to spread? And that our common accident, but the shared responsibility for corruption has turned into the lifestyle of many citizens, because they simply had no more exits, could not achieve their right, could not be treated, could not solve any of their problems if they did not agree to corruption, because even today those who point to corruption, those we call whistlers still do not have adequate protection. People are still afraid, but those who speak say what's worth what we're saying. So look at the case of the customs administration. How many years have people who have worked in the customs administration, unionists, people who have been thrown on the road as last dogs testify that everything there has been done for years, not since 2003, to be honest and honest, but before, long before. But now it's becoming a system of functioning and nobody's doing anything. The head of Customs's office is still where he is. So has anyone ever wondered how it's possible for the Director of Customs to be someone who hasn't been elected by law at all? The Head of Customs Administration was not elected to the competition, which is prescribed by the law, but by the Government to command it, and by the fact that he is the Secretary of State. So how long does it take to put up with it? The door opened for investigations in some state-owned enterprises. I have spoken and today I will mention the time to knock on the door and Croatian waters, to ask them about heroic health around the exploitation of gravel. It's time to ask them about how to choose cooperatives, performers of waterway maintenance work. It is time to knock on the door of the Croatian forests and ask them how they exploit the state forests and whose account is under the hair of the centuries-old forests intersect. It is time to knock on the door and many who were in the fostering system in agriculture, and shared their own land on which nothing but chicar or machete had ever occurred. It is only when the public sees that what Prime Minister Kosor says is true that there are no untouchables, but even when he receives a court epilogue, then we will be able to say that the fight against corruption is a process that has a beginning and an end, which makes sense and for which it is really worth fighting until the end as the representatives of the Croatian Parliament do in the working body of which Dr. Jovanovic. In this sense, I express my full support for the work of this body, with concerns that there are attempts to obstruct its work, but I warn the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia is not sufficiently capacitated, there are no construction experts, there are not enough people who can investigate economic crime, there are no people who are financial experts to this extent that they can pass through the documentation quickly and efficiently. They're doing a bloody job, and you know that building skills cost you 1% of the entire investment. If we now combed only the stock from Vrgorec to Ravca, or from Ravca to Vrgorec, this last stock that costs 400 and some million, or that section of the fast road to Luka Gazenica, see how much it costs construction skills, and without it you cannot determine whether what it says in the main construction book corresponds to what is installed in the building itself. Here is just one example that indicates the problem of being systematically explored. In that sense, support for all who are professionally involved in this problem and topic, but let's be at the height of the task. The Croatian Parliament is not to interfere with the process and the process, but to help all forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48264	And now we have one, two, three, four, five replications. First, a distinguished colleague, Dragutin Lesar, checked in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48265	Dear colleague Beus, you said you wanted the Croatian Parliament to do everything in its power to combat corruption. I'm joining your wish, but I need to give you two examples to prove that it's almost impossible. First, 6 citizens with 6 cases who held talks with me as a member of the National Council expressed their suspicion that in their cases that they were in the police investigation phase or the State's Attorney's Office is covering up corruption in two ways. By inaction, therefore, by cooling or criminal processing, to cover up more than revealed. Of those six cases, two of them took my advice and the documentation plays to the National Council, four of them not. What can we do in the National Council in such cases? A representation of citizens who suspect that the State's Attorney's Office has covered up an investigation or object to refer to the State's Attorney's Office for consideration and nothing more. Once the State's Attorney's office says there's nothing left, there's nothing left. And on April 21st last year, at the National Council of Ministry, Minister and Kalmet, we warned and asked in the process of establishing internal surveillance in the vast sector covered by it. After public affairs broke out, the minister justified that he could not know everything that was going on in his portfolio and after these warnings in internal surveillance, the government felt that we had unwarrantedly rejected the ministry's report. I wouldn't be surprised if the Parliament had voted such a conclusion if we had unwarrantedly warned Minister Calmet that he didn't have good internal surveillance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48266	My colleague Lesar's time. Thank you very much. Replication response, fellow Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48267	My colleague, Lesar, fully agrees with you because I am also addressed by citizens who have major problems and who complain that in the procedure they have initiated before the authorities, they rarely have a painful sense of obstruction. I will mention one: a case of reasonable suspicion of the act of corruption, abuse of office at the Municipality court in Metkovic, where USKOK ordered the municipality's State's Attorney's Office in Metkovic to conduct investigations. The municipal State Attorney's Office has established the existence of criminal elements that the USKOK office in Zagreb would refuse the case by saying there are not enough elements. There is nothing left for me, as probably for you as a representative of the Croatian people in this House of Commons, but for me to send all that documentation to USKOK once more and ask them to see if it is possible to review it again. Our power stops there, but it starts talking out loud and public about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48268	Thank you. Next, the replica of counterpart Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48269	I replicate my colleague Beus on your historical examples, especially here are the elections for the Mayor of the City of Zagreb and many others. In fact, it would be good if we could only list historical examples today, but unfortunately we have many fresh examples. So I'm going to tell you that I received information from one police department that, after one criminal report, they had to suspend the investigation before the last election last year because one of the candidates, the one against whom the criminal application was filed, was also a candidate for chief in one of the municipalities. Therefore, the emperor may be naked, but he is still very effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48270	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48271	So we must keep in mind that the anti-corruption process has several phases. What citizens are concentrated on is certainly recognition, reporting, but it is on state institutions, from police, the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK, then to courts to continue and end the proceedings. It is no wonder that at a local level, a local powerful man is very well served by local authorities, and sometimes in a hand or in another way, he is being controlled or influenced by people who work in the police. Well, it hasn't been since yesterday. Well, it wasn't for nothing that Minister Karamarko announced the depolitanization of the police. Why would he announce it if the police hadn't been politicized? So, this problem exists, we need to look into his eyes and encourage the minister and director of police to do their job to the end. And that those who have come along the political line and who in local birts with local party heads agree how the police will function to say thank you and good-bye. And if they deserve to be asked for heroic health, they might have committed some kind of crime by doing it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48272	Thank you. Replica, distinguished colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48273	counterpart Beus particularly apostrophe of the Customs Administration's work, and for years, the Independent Customs Union has warned and said that part of the Customs Administration has been involved in corruption and crime. These are serious accusations, and no one is alive to react to it, but these people are marginalizing themselves, they're headed against a unionist-mounted tight procedure. Any one that points to a guy's irregularities to missing trucks of certain goods, to first name people with inadequate professional equipment, but similar in relation to family or tasby connections with political powers. If they were to be named head of an outpost that hasn't even come up yet, they're not even on the floor or in the draft, they've been getting paid for it for years. That's what the Independent Customs Union is all about. They're getting so tired, but their writings that the state's top, all relevant, the bodies of persecution, are simply becoming people of questionable mental health because no one responds to it. They'll get tired. So the question arises, so this is what you're talking about right now. There is an impression in the fight against corruption among certain people who have damaged the state budget for several thousand euros, of course the declared government's idea of zero tolerance. And while we are dealing with a zero tolerance rate so far we are dealing with small things, and the state budget remains cut off by millions and millions of euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48274	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48275	My colleague Anticevic, you're absolutely right. I'd say that in the last 10, 15 years, a good state is standing on its feet considering how much it's drained out of the state budget into private bags without credit and illegal. Look at what you're saying in the case of the Customs Administration, just a case of oil smuggling that led to this, let's not forget, that the reporter Hrvoje Appelt had to be guarded by the police, and on the other hand he was fired. Let's not forget it's a very important thing. Hrvoje Appelt is currently not working anywhere, so everyone forgot him, but Hrvoje Appelt was a protected person because he talked about how the Customs Administration has been referring to the export and import of oil derivatives in terms of millions and millions of gallons or billions of kuna in the last ten years. If all that money had ended up in the state budget, today in Croatia there would be no crisis, or at least it would not have been generated from public spending, or from such structured state spending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48276	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48277	Dear colleague Beus, I'm glad you talked about the areas where corruption is the most corrupt, and you talked about the patterns under which corruption succeeds. Did you miss or maybe you don't know a large economic branch that has generated a tremendous amount of debt in Croatia in the last 20 years, which is shipbuilding. I won't talk about it. I want to share with you the experience of Italian shipbuilding which since the 1970s has been a resilient resistant corruption. In the procurement process or award of contracts in a concession, there must be at least three offers, the lowest and highest being rejected, a financial officer is present, representatives of all trade unions are required to seek references whether those who receive the job, pay contributions and taxes from their workers, whether rights are protected, whether pension and health funds are being filled. And something much more important, and it's extra work. The director of the state-owned Italian shipyard cannot, regardless of the director's signing an ex post-work contract. Compensation works can be approved by the office of methods and procedures where exclusively professional people sit and it is completely independent of the shipbuilding administration. With us, any slightly stronger executive can sign an extra-work contract. And what I'd like to supplement your speech. We deal with corruption all the time, and I think that all citizens are invited to fight corruption, but I think it is our job and the job of the state to establish systems of functioning or management that are resistant to corruption, that we need to act more preventively.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48278	Thank you. Replication response. A colleague, Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48279	When you have 10 minutes to discuss, you can't cover everything. It would be worth mentioning where 24 thousand tons of grain went missing and how. So, there's this topic from Ilock to Prevlaka, if you want territorially, and thematically, and as far as the activities themselves are concerned, we could talk about it for six days. As for shipbuilding, it is a public secret that the best job in Croatia is to co-operate Croatian shipyards. It's a spa. No one's ever asked the price list question and no one's ever failed because he worked for the shipyards. It's the hardest thing for shipbuilding workers. They'll be the ones who'll end up paying the highest price. And co-operatives and performers of additional works and other flowers, including those who referred to the "Brodosplit" affair, which is a classic corruption affair, testify that in that branch, too, it has been leaky everywhere. In whose pockets and in whose not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48280	Thank you. And the last application of the replica, the esteemed Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48281	Thank you very much. You were talking about an anti-corruption climate that was necessary in the fight against corruption, of course, but it was never more favourable than today. And thank God that's the case, because it really should always be rooted out. I wouldn't take 4 away from 20 like you did, because it would create the wrong impression that corruption is only in political and state-owned enterprises and is related to a particular political option. And it's not. The most corrupt part of the Croatian society that wastes, the part that has used its political, communist power from the former system, has been combined with new economic power through conversion and privatisation. And it's about a thousand to 2,000 individuals whose wealth has increased so much since independence to date that it's just proportional to Croatian foreign debt. And the impression is that the entire Croatian society is corrupt. It's not. Croatian society is in most fair society. He is oppressed by that image by those individuals and even by who they are. And that's not why we need to record all the phones, it's just the thousands and 200, and we're gonna solve all the problems. But I also have to point out that we need to be careful when we talk about corruption, not to continue fighting, but to know that many of those who are unserious and careless and in political struggles are reporting and have no responsibility for making such reports and doing damage to society and individuals. Such reports seem detimulative, demotive, even negative, even on entrepreneurship. People fear in such an environment anything they do while everything can be characterized as corruption. Corruption is also in the private sector, and it is constantly ignored and it is there first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48282	Thank you. Answer to the replica of my colleague, Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48283	I would significantly distinguish my colleague Maric's atmosphere from the anti-corruption struggle from the lynch atmosphere. 'Cause the story of "holding those thieves" and "all the same," so give me some of these SDPs you're doing now in fashion. Danny had them by the neck to show that it wasn't just one political option. This encourages people like our colleague Markovanovic to discuss this kind of impression. I'm not for any lynch, but I am for high-temperature anti-corruption stories. Therefore, let those who are right and healthy think three times whether or not they will do something that is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48284	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear fellow Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48285	Thank you very much. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here we see that today's debate on the report submitted by this monitoring board of the Corruption Prevention Strategy has its own sides that are certainly of quality and over which no representative of this House can cross whether or not they will be demeaning them or raise them too much. But it is certainly one thing, that this National Council has launched activities that have led to the many concrete activities of the authorities that should have done so, which have not done so, and through this way created an additional pressure on these bodies, and right now we see that many things have been launched, that the fight against corruption is one of the main levers and that there are elections and that our newly established president, one of his first premises, has just had a fight against corruption. It was this corruption that prompted me to say something about the report and the preliminary presentation of Dr Jovanovic so that I could say something possible about corruption and nepotism at universities. We have also witnessed activities related to Index I, II, related to the sale of exams and in some ways what was going on and what was happening at universities has often been in stories and known as such among students about the sale of exams and everything else. However, it took such a heat to show that many who were to say no to top professors, top scientists that they had now shown themselves in one form which was very bad and which proved that in our universities this activity was not so clean and that under that autonomy many times many things that were not good and which had to be kind of persuaded. We know that the organisation of some kinds of additional education is always present. How much corruption is that? I think it's under cover when a professor makes a recommendation that I don't know his daughter best to give instructions from a case he's examining that it's certainly one of the kinds that should be examined and that should be initiated by such a procedure to be seen so that his daughter can teach that student better than he does and that usually those who go to such instruction go to the exams. Also the issue of organisation of both public and seminars, as well as these summer schools, etc. However, in all these activities we need to bring some things to an end. It's visible what's happening and what's happened to certain schools like this summer school of the Faculty of Economics internationally and how it was a cover-up actually selling certain exams. However, the same thing should be seen that they may not be all the same, that they should be dismembered which way and how what is happening. I think it's very important because we can't go round the entire university and science class again as something that's just a sale that doesn't have something quality to play out there. One of the examples we are reading is this recently that the city of Zagreb has paid for studies to the Faculty of Economics and teachers have earned so much and so much money and everything else. I think that in many other self-government communities, we have examples of certain development studies that this socio-political community reports or pays for, and often never have such studies come to life, nor have the council members in such congregations who have raised their hand to do so wonders, and it is not known what we have actually received for such money. Or we have a question that the county, the city, the municipality pays a certain issue of "books" that will improve production, improve the knowledge of farmers in these often participate, and I do not know myself coauthors of certain officials or employees or county, city or municipality. Whether it's corruption, whether it's a conflict of interest or something else. I think everything in all those parts needs to be seen where we've come from and what's going on here, but it's supposed to be one joint activity. One of the forms of corruption I consider certainly at the university is certain nepotism, so one form that I consider to be one of the most dangerous. Why? Not only is it possible that someone may have been unjustly left without a place in the university as a scientific recruit or something like that, because in the further part, a negative selection occurs if something has come to a place that he did not deserve and because many of the employees who received it become bad teachers, they are bad at raising new generations, and they are doing a far-reaching damage to that part that they received at that point in some protection in that place. Unfortunately, often it stays in stories, cults, amongst the students, and that we don't have this kind of council, that we don't have certain media activities when someone decides to talk and when the media is dealing with this problem, then the public gets upset, then the organs and the DORH, and USKOK, and the police start to act and to move some things around. However, even then, certain problems arise because the evidence of the crime is one of the most difficult parts. It's hard to find those who want to talk about it, who have evidence and who are willing to bring it all up. That's why I think the work of the National Council is even more important. It triggers these activities, gives people strength and will to report and therefore I support and support this report, and I particularly appreciate the uncompromising nature of this Council, especially the president of Dr. Željko Jovanovic, and I think that I should continue to implement the Corruption Prevention Strategy in all aspects of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether it is ours or yours, as our colleague Markovanovic would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48286	Thank you very much. It's two replicas. First of all, dear colleague Goran Maric. Here you go, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48287	Thank you very much. Comrade Bodakosh, I'm so glad you brought up corruption in scientific institutions and institutions. It's something that needs to be emphasized especially here, but also... You mentioned summer schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Summer schools are not unknown to foreign universities. They are organized by them, but there is no one taking classes from regular schooling, but they are given any diplomas or recognitions for attending the thematic summer school. And only at one university, the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb in summer school pass 6 thousand and 900 exams, pass 94, 95%, and the same transition in regular deadlines on the same subject is 20 to 35%. In science there must be no rate of tolerance to corruption, it is zero. Science without ethics, science without morality loses its basic meaning. It's something that must be completely eradicated, something that must be an example to society as a whole. Unfortunately, we've got a bit of a depravity, and it's become quite deviant behavior in some of the scientific institutions. It should be made public that it is similar in the Transport Faculty and that there should be even more detailed examinations and sanctions taken and that it is not only in the last 5 years, but in the last 15 years and the main organiser has not yet been discovered there. And for scientific institutions, colleges need deans, not tech managers. These became individuals techno managers who earn more than directors in multinational companies. That's why they don't have time to come to the promotion of their students ten times in a row, and let's remember here the Dean of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering who said, apologized to the entire Parliament for begging the delay because it's unimaginable for him to be not with his students during the promotion. This is an example of what a dean should be, and these examples of negative ones should be forgotten as soon as possible and deleted from being allowed to appear at all in college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48288	Replication response, Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48289	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Maric, so I think right through this debate and what you're saying now, the question of schooling, of getting some higher levels sure we need to have it present, but what is now showing that it was all in the function of passages where you can't go or what banally I said that one professor tells students to go to my daughter's instructions then you'll certainly learn well. What does that mean? This means that such cases of university work cannot exist. We need to enable students to learn more, to learn most about what can be learned, but to go through some kind of payment, that is the basic goal of paying and passing. It's something that I think is the most unspeakable thing in the entire system. And this is exactly the battle and this council, including all of us, especially those who are present in scientific teaching, i.e. at universities should be uncompromising because that is the only way we will get quality people, finished students and experts who will be able to pull this Croatia, this economy and everything that happens here forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48290	Thank you. And Madam Representative Anna Lovrin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bodakoš, I would absolutely agree with everything that you said and what my colleague Maric was saying. Indeed, the university is a special environment and if there is one there, and there is because it is inadmissible and established, and in some cases by law, then it certainly rings at the alarm. You said the National Council should work to encourage, etc., yes. The National Council held a debate on corruption at the university, however, did not give much results. There was a lot of talk, it was moaning, but we didn't actually hear from any university whether there was any plan to narrow down this area of corruption in order to act preventively, because certainly fighting corruption at the university couldn't be, and it's not good that they were the scenes we were watching. And this whole debate was mainly about whether it was appropriate to handle the police and the attorney's office or not, but it wasn't about the taste and the meaning of it, but to establish action programmes at those universities that up to this corruption, that corruption couldn't get through at all, and we didn't hear that. Today we read in the papers and I don't know if it's true, but if it's true, then it's terrifying and the message is terrifying, and it's that the students who are convicted, who have been fined in criminal proceedings for paying exams, that their exams haven't been erased, that they're left behind as laid down and that they continue to study normally. What kind of message is that to students, so pay, you get parole and nothing, go on studying. So, I will agree with the President of the National Council to ask the university for a report on whether it is true, if what has been taken and what measures have been taken at the university, that it cannot happen after we talk about taking away the benefit obtained by criminal acts, that in fact in this case the benefit obtained by a corrupt crime remains.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48292	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48293	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues, I think, right in this part of it, and that's what's going on in the university itself to stop corruption has not been done enough. A lot of things are what I said and talked about and the students were talking and maybe even some anonymous applications were being sent. However, nothing concrete has been done. It didn't work until these parts started to work. I don't know the police, the BOOK, etc. until it started to work. But how do you go on? Well, I also think it is necessary for the Ministry of Education and Science to go through their inspections through the university and see what happens next. Because this is just as unsustainable as you said. It's already been written and told, and I don't know the statements are like this, one dean like this, the other one. What will happen to those who have been proven to have passed these exams, that, in fact, their exams have been submitted without even answering. So what kind of message is normal to those students who fight bloody and who have no money or connections, or the ability to take exams, but who take them with their knowledge and then have a certain calling after that. I think here not only this Council, but the Ministry of Education through its inspections should ask the university to carry out certain and autonomous activities in colleges where it is suspected, or where certain purchases have already been proven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48294	Thank you. The final review of Council President Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm extremely glad that the debate is over with the discussion of academic corruption. I will remind you that on January 1, 2000, the cover of the famous journal "Economy" had only one sentence. The sentence was, "Knowledge is power, and the next society will be a society of knowledge." Therefore, the fight for knowledge is the fight against corruption and the fight against poverty. This is not by chance that our National Council has already discussed academic corruption, and we have agreed this week that we will soon organise another thematic session to see what has been done on the basis of everything that we have discussed about academic corruption, so it is my pleasure to invite Dr. Marić and Dr. Bodakoš to join us in preparing this thematic session so that it is as high-quality and useful as possible. Because my motto is in the work of the thematic sessions of our National Council that these are not session sessions for the session, but to really draw some conclusions that will then be useful. I thank all those who contributed today to this debate. I really think that everyone on behalf of clubs and later in an individual debate with the exception of colleagues Markovanovic has made a major contribution to better quality and better work of the National Council in the coming period. At first, I said I was somewhat sorry that it had been so long since the day we filed this report. But ultimately, I'm actually glad. I'm glad for two reasons. The first reason is that seven months after we have submitted this report, we see that the National Council is indeed proactive, because a whole series of proposals that we have proposed have already been put in place to improve the Action Plan Strategy. And secondly, I am really glad that this debate happened today when we had the inauguration of the new president of the Republic of Croatia who said in his opening speech, I quote him: "I will insist on a system in which it will be clear that corruption is not worth it. We can't be afraid, we can't be silent, we can't turn our heads. It is courage that conquers injustice, which achieves a better, fairer society. I'll never get tired of fighting for justice. But I can't win alone. I need help from the government, state institutions, Croatian Parliament and Croatian citizens." I hope that on behalf of all of us, and I am sure that I can also say on behalf of the National Council that President Josipovic has our support, has our help and that together with him we will fight to make Croatia a truly fair country in which people will have the opportunity to live honestly and in which there will be no more and less untouchable those who have become encumbered in corruption and crime. It's final. We as the National Council will continue to monitor the implementation of the strategy. I also consider that unlike what Mr Markovanovic thinks, I keep pointing out in meetings with the European Commission, representatives of the European embassies in Zagreb. Croatia currently has a legislative framework and an institutional framework such as rarely anyone in Europe. This legislative framework, this institutional framework through the jumping vertical, creates a prerequisite that corruption in Croatia indeed, to fight it effectively and to show results. There are three reasons why this legislative framework, why this institutional framework does not produce results. The first reason is money. So that institutions that need to fight corruption do not have enough resources to implement all those instruments at their disposal, they assure us that the money has enough. Another reason is that there's political pressure that they can't do their job. I hope the keys to Bajic's desk are gone with a little vitr and that all cases are on the table and that he will continue to solve them in a way that we can see the judgments of the power of power as soon as possible. And of course the third reason is if there's money, if there's no political pressure that people are incompetent at the top places that have to organize their jobs. The National Council will monitor their work. The National Council will report to this Parliament and I hope that our jumping verticals will work in a way that citizens see that there is no point in not paying off corruption. So, confiscation of the entire property acquired by corruption, but also property that cannot be proven is the path that will restore citizens' trust in the institutions of the judiciary, and in this Parliament, and in politicians, and I think that's one of our priorities. Because I remind you citizens say the most corrupt in Croatia are politicians and the judiciary. It's our job to change that picture.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48296	Two corrections. Mr. Kronoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48297	Here, I must correct the incorrect allegations of my colleague Jovanovic, who claims that I am the only one who has contributed to the debate. And in fact, I've made quite a contribution to taking off the mask of the president of the National Council who doesn't know how to wear masks in these parts day, two and then take off, and he's wearing his mask too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48298	And Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48299	Well, the incorrect assumption is also that he told his colleague Jovanovic that his colleague Markovanovic did not contribute to this debate. Well, fellow Jovanovic and differences, whether you like to hear them or not, are a contribution to some debate, so that they can only infuse some debate, and not in any way contribute anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48300	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48301	We move to the report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period 21 May 2008 to 30 May 2009. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the conclusion that: a report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period from 21 May 2008 to 30 May 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The report was accepted by most votes, 95 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48302	We are going to the next item - Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2008 Proposer of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The report shall be submitted by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures under Article 9. Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. State Commission President Vlasta Pavličević will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48303	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is a report on the work of the State Commission for 2008 from which a number of data testifying to the importance of our work and the way we perform it. The report contains a number of statistics that can be a good starting point for a useful and constructive debate on the work of the commission, but also on public procurement at all. Before I go to the report, I'd like to say a few words about the state commission. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is the second-degree authority responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement, concessions and public-private partnerships. The State Commission cannot, under its official duty, control public procurement procedures, but does so exclusively in accordance with the appeal made. The State Commission is also not in charge of controlling the execution of the public procurement contract. The organisation, detour and way of working of the State Commission shall comply with the requirements of European law, i.e. it shall comply with the relevant directives and judgments of the European Court of Justice. As far as the report itself is concerned, in 2008, the state commission received a thousand and 20 cases of appeal in public procurement, representing an increase of as much as 62.45% compared to 2007 when a total of 637 cases were received. The reasons for the huge increase in the number of appeals cases are multiple. First, it should be noted that in 1.1.2008, a new Public Procurement Act came into force, which has introduced a number of changes in the public procurement system that have had a direct impact on the increase in public procurement complaints, which is primarily an increase in the number of public procurement phases that can be made to appeal. Namely, since 1.1.2008 the complaint can be made during the whole procurement process. The extension of the circle of active-legislation entities, and in addition to those amendments to the legislation, the impact on the increase of public procurement complaints certainly has an exceptional reputation for the state commission as an independent institution. In fact, the area of public procurement is extremely sensitive in view of the very nature of the procedure in which public funds are used. In addition, the area of public procurement is very specific, since in the legislation, public procurement binds each procedure and specific legislation relating to a specific subject matter or particular contracting authority. All mentioned by the staff of the State Commission requires unquestioned integrity and high expertise. The long-standing execution of State Commission tasks has provided this state body with an enviable reputation, which has been explicitly confirmed in the 2008 progress report of the European Commission. The level of transparency of the work of the state commission is also very high, which is difficult to compete with. In accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, all decisions made by the State Commission are made publicly on the websites of the State Commission and in full form, so that everyone has the opportunity to see the work of the State Commission and the decisions of the State Commission. In addition, there is also a public register of administrative cases in which all the items of procurement to which the complaint has been made, including information on the contracting authorities, the complainants, the subject-matter and the value of the procurement, can be monitored. It should be pointed out that 2008 is also marked by business in difficult conditions. As noted, there has been an exceptional increase in the scope of the job, especially since September 2008, however, parallel to the increase in the size of the job, there has been no increase in the number of workers. On 31 December 2007, the state commission had a total of 21 employees, including members, expert team and administrative staff. On 31 December 2008, the state commission hired 24 employees, four of whom were absent during the year for maternity leave, and three were employed only in December 2008. According to the above, the job that was increased by 62.45% was put in front of an extremely small number of employees. All employees made extraordinary efforts to maintain the functionality and settlement of the subject within the deadlines, and a ban on the use of annual holidays was also imposed in one period, and the need for overtime in order to meet the deadlines. As stated by the state commission in 2008 received a thousand 20 appeals cases of 5.53% compared to the total number of public procurement procedures in 2008. According to complaints received in 2008, the State Commission controlled 455 different contracting entities, i.e. the obligor of the application of the Public Procurement Act. The value of controlled procurement procedures in 2008 before the state commission, together with the value of the framework agreements, was 13 billion 291 million 537 thousand kuna. According to the case, the largest number of complaints was made on the purchase of goods, almost 40%, representing a change compared to 2007, when the highest number of complaints was made on the purchase of services 38% of the total received 1020 items in 2008 were resolved 968 and 90.1% respectively, representing an increase of more than 50% compared to 2007 when a total of 622 items were solved. All cases are not resolved in 2008 as complaints are received by the end of the year, so by 31 December, it is not possible to complete and resolve the case by the end of the year. These items were transferred in the following year and were resolved after the completion of the file. The complaint procedure before the State Commission in 2008 took an average of 30 days, i.e. so much time from the receipt of an appeal at the State Commission until the decision was made. The average duration of the procedure before the State Commission of 30 days should be different from the deadline for the decision of the State Commission, which is 15 days from the date of completion of the file, not from the receipt of the complaint. The average duration of the 30-day procedure is progress compared to 2007 when the procedure before the State Commission was on average 31 days. The State Commission assessed by appeal cases of 36.36% the complaint as established, resulting in a decision to cancel the procurement and cancellation of the selection decision in full or in part. As well as the cancellation of the negotiated procurement procedure. The complaint of lack of procedural assumptions was rejected in 15.8% of cases. The appeal procedure was suspended in 10.75% of cases while the complaint was rejected in 29.96% of cases. As already stated by the State Commission in the appeal procedure, it is acting on the complainant's appeal. However, once the appeal procedure has been initiated, the State Commission shall also control the legality of the procurement procedure in respect of the essential infringements of the law referred to in Article. 140. Public procurement laws. Of the proceedings in which the complaint was adopted in 59.65% of the cases were illegalities identified by the complaint and 58.52% of cases of significant injuries. According to these data, the complaint states and significant injuries may be consistent. The report sets out the most common reasons why public procurement procedures and selection decisions are annulled. It should be pointed out that the complainants are obliged to pay compensation for the conduct of the procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act when initiating the appeal procedure. Depending on the value of the procurement procedure, the fee is 2000, 5000 and 7,500 kuna respectively. The fees are direct revenue from the state budget. On the basis of the 2008 compensation, 4 million 52,000 241 kuna were paid to the state budget, and the approved budget of the State Commission for 2008 was 6 million and 12 thousand kuna. This suggests that the State Commission of the Republic of Croatia under allegations cost about a million and 900 thousand kuna. Furthermore, it should be said that according to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act against the decision of the State Commission, it is possible to declare a complaint to the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. The parties to the State Commission's proceedings were against decisions taken by the State Commission in 2008 which were 968, only 41 administrative suits, representing 4.24%. A small number of lawsuits have indicated that the parties in more than 95% of cases are satisfied with the State Commission's decision. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, the State Commission is also obliged to provide a list of contracting entities most often in breach of the legal provisions in the procurement procedure. This information can only be provided by the State Commission in relation to the procurement procedures which were the subject of the appeal procedure. The data tables are in the report. Furthermore, a number of educational activities in the area of public procurement were continued in 2008. Members and workers of the State Commission shall cooperate with the Public Procurement System Administration in conducting various forms of public procurement education. Although exceptional effects have been achieved in the public procurement system, it is necessary to consider how to establish an effective system of control over the execution of the Public Procurement Treaty. The Law on the State Commission also requires the assessment of the situation in legal protection, and we have divided the same into an assessment of the situation in the appeal procedure and the assessment of the anti-corruption effects of legal protection in public procurement. The appeal procedure is marked more complexly by certain regulations governing the work and conduct of the State Commission and creating legal certainty and facilitating the position of participants in the public procurement system in the appeal procedure. Then, as has already been said, a legal protection procedure can be initiated at any stage of public procurement. Then an active ID was expanded. There is also an increase in the quality of the complaints made which reflects the work on interpretation of public procurement rules and the establishment of the legal practice of the State Commission available on the official website www.dcom.hr. All decisions by the State Commission shall be published on that website in full form, both preventive and anti-corruption. The anti-corruption effect is certainly achieved by continuous education of entities in the public procurement system. Among other things, by publishing all decisions in full form on the Internet. However, the anti-corruption effect is also achieved by the very fact that the State Commission is set up and functioning for the control of public procurement procedures as an independent and independent institution providing legal protection and thus ensures and enables the rule of law to be strengthened and sanctioned in public procurement. Achieving the competence of the State Commission is an instrument of combating corruption since this state body annuls public procurement procedures in which conditions for cancellation are established and thus prevents the conclusion of harmful contracts. Here, this is a brief summary of the State Commission's 2008 work report. In the end, however, I would like to say that the data contained in the report indicates that all employees of the State Commission are extremely successful in their work. I reiterate that it is a small number of employees and a very important and sensitive job. So I am taking this opportunity to thank all the former and current members of the state commission for their successful work in 2008. I also thank all expert advisors of the former and current and other employees of the State Commission for all the efforts they have made to carry out their work and work of great quality. Now, that would be brief on the report and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48304	Thank you. The Committee on Economy, the chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48305	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. At its 34th session, held on 17 February 2010, the Committee discussed the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2008. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this report as a parent working body. In the opening statement, it was noted that in 2008 due to a number of significant changes both in the legislation and in the institutional structure in the area of public procurement systems, it was extremely important. Thus, the total value of public procurement procedures which were controlled in 2008 before the state commission amounted to more than 13 billion. The number of newly received cases reached a thousand and 20, up from the previous 2007 increase of 62.45%. For discussion, the Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 11 February 2010. In the discussion on the committee, it is pointed out that the observed abuses of appeal proceedings consisting of the fact that individual contracting authorities are often filing complaints without a valid reason, deliberately obstructing the procurement process, and causing damage to other bidders and contracting entities. In fact, such public procurement procedures instead of two months are extended on average to 4 months. These phenomena, from an economic point of view, cause multiple damage to both companies and institutions and the state. An example of an orderer who filed complaints in 22 different cases was presented, and in all 22 cases they were rejected as unfounded. In view of the above, the Committee recalls the need to amend the Public Procurement Act in the light of the adoption of such legal solutions which would remove the identified problems. The Committee proposes that the Public Procurement Act stipulate that the application fee is not 3 to 7 thousand kuna, but that the amount should be bound as a percentage for the value of the competition. Such a system would prevent the abuse of the Institute of Appeal and ensure that an appeal is made only in cases where there is, therefore, a legal basis or valid reasons. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to adopt the following conclusion, a report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48306	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I'm opening a debate. It's the club of HDZ Representatives Mrs. Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48307	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the State Commission with associates, ladies and gentlemen representatives. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club accepts the 2008 report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. This report, which is actually a specific report before us, since the new Public Procurement Act came into force on 1 January 2008. In addition to some amendments and some additional laws, this law has brought about a number of changes in the public procurement system, which have had a significant impact on the work of the state commission itself. The 2008 Public Procurement Act has contributed to further development of the public procurement system. The publication of public procurement procedures in the e-procurement notice of the National Journals more detailed description of the evidence of ability, modernised legal protection, more serious access to the education of public procurement obligations and better cooperation between the institutions themselves responsible for public procurement are certainly the right direction in the development of a quality system. Public procurement is a significant part of the economy of each country, and the improvement of the public procurement system has a direct impact on the economic, efficiency and legality of public procurement procedures and the spending of taxpayers' money. Amendments to the legal framework increased the transparency of appeal procedures, increased the number of persons with active legitimacy and expanded the possibility of investing in the complaint so that the complaint could be lodged throughout the public procurement process. This change resulted in a higher number of potential complainants, and the right to invest complaints during public procurement proceedings was extended to the State Attorney's Office and to the Public Procurement System of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. This resulted in a large increase in the number of cases in the state commission, and the total value of public procurement procedures controlled in 2008 by the state commission is around 13 billion and 300 million kuna. The amendments to the legislation resulted in maximum transparency in work, so it is in this sense that the state commission publishes all decisions in full form on its websites and can publish them in the "National Journals". The fact that the held commission publicly publishes its decisions on the websites has also been educational but also very powerful anti-corruption effect. The anti-corruption action of the state commission is primarily seen in the conduct of operations under its jurisdiction. The control of public procurement resulting in the annulment of proceedings and decisions found to be illegal prevents the conclusion of harmful public procurement contracts but also prevents corrupt behaviour. During 2008, there was a major increase in complaints lodged compared to 2007 and a thousand 20 complaints were filed in 2008 while 637 complaints were filed earlier, representing an increase of 62.45%. When we talk about the number of public procurements controlled by the state commission, then the data should also be compared with the number of total publications in the electronic public procurement advert in "National New" which is increasing every year as well as to greater transparency. In 2008, a total of 18,000 434 public procurement procedures were published, with a total of 5,35% of complaints being filed on the total number of publications. The most important reason for the increase of complaints made in public procurement proceedings is the new Public Procurement Act which extends the active legitimacy based on the right to appeal by the competitor or the bidder but also any other economic operator who has a legal interest in obtaining a public procurement contract and who could suffer any damage from the alleged infringement of subjective rights. The new law allows a multi-stage complaint to be lodged during the public procurement process until the public procurement process itself is interrupted. The aim of such a system is the possibility of correcting errors in the procurement process at the time when an irregularity occurred so as not to subsequently cause the cancellation of the entire procurement procedure. The reason for the large increase in the number of complaints is also because of the quality of the work of the state commission which is recognised in public and because of confidence in an institution which is very professionally and professionally doing its job. It should be noted that despite the lack of expert advisors in 2008, 968 cases were resolved, which represents an increase in the number of cases solved by 56% compared to the previous year when the number was 622 cases. What certainly encourages is the percentage of all complaints that are high and 90.1%. What has not been solved, and this is a total of some 106 items in the explanation, we see that it has not been solved precisely because the documentation in the complaints has not been completed, and for this reason it was not possible to access the resolution. Of the total 968 complaints resolved, it should be pointed out that 352 complaints or 36,36% complaints and adopted and as the most common reasons for repealing decisions on selection or public procurement proceedings, the illegal documentation for competition in terms of market restriction and discrimination of bidders is provided realistically or potentially through the ban on making joint tenders through favouring a particular bidder or producer through a description of the subject of the procurement or conditions for proving the ability. It also lists the illegal application of the criteria of the most economically favourable offer, the legal implementation of the tender opening procedure, etc. However, the real issue to which much more attention should be paid is the negotiation process of public procurement without prior publication of the call for competition or a direct contract without competition. Although the number of these direct contracts is less published when compared to 2007 it is still very high and amounts to 2000 289 items. We don't really have the right information to hide behind these direct contracts and what can and could be hidden, and that is certainly a problem that should be discussed and addressed. The more the number of complaints on such proceedings is very small and in 2008 33 complaints were filed in 2008 and even more worried about the fact that as much as 42% or 14 of the 33 complaints lodged and adopted. As pointed out by the Chairman of the Committee on the Economy, there are also cases that appeal procedures are being misused in such a way that individual contracting authorities are constantly filing complaints without justifiable reason and thus deliberately disabling public procurement procedures. The debate should also be conducted and the abuse of the Institute of Appeals should be prevented because, from an economic point of view, this damage is done both to companies and institutions but also to the state itself. Finally, it should be said that the report is very detailed and very correct, that the state commission is achieving very good results in resolving complaints even though the number of employees is less than anticipated. It is important to stress that despite the deficit of employees and the increase in the number of complaints lodged, the period of settlement of cases has been reduced by one day compared to the previous year, respectively 2007. In the future, the average duration of the control procedures should be further and significantly shortened. The state commission has increased transparency in its work, is an important entity in the fight against corruption and, on the basis of the earlier mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, accepts this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48308	Thank you. The club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48309	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, President of the Commission for Public Procurement Control with Associates. The Croatian People's Party club will support this report. The report is very correct and especially because this report points to many things that are wrong, many things that reduce the Commission's ability to control public procurement, and especially if we are reading this report and I completely understand why it does not exactly say the name and last name, the letter and the number, but it is a message between the lines. This is completely understandable to me why and why the Public Procurement Control Commission must act in this way. In fact, if we don't get into this right now, I'm going to say technical details, that we don't go into numbers, that we don't go into the emphasis on the importance of the Public Procurement Control Commission, we had before this point a debate that was mostly or most of the way focused on the area of public procurement. I have no intention of bidding or mentioning at all the figures that are moving through public procurement into the area of that gray zone in the particularly worst of this corrupt one. At the end of the day, the fact is that both events in the judiciary and in Remetec are supporting the claim and there is no need to repeat it. But that's why we at the Croatian People's Party Club need to re-emphasise the need, which is that the Public Procurement Control Commission can enter public procurement at any time according to some system, does not matter what method. Because under this law, the Public Procurement Control Commission only enters the control of public procurement after the complaint has been lodged. So if anyone complains, then the commission comes. If he doesn't complain, public procurement runs its course. We at the Croatian People's Party Club believe that, as in some other areas, the judiciary, not to list now, means that the control institution can enter the system according to some programme, whether by means of random selection, it does not matter which one, but that it has the right to enter into the control of public procurement. I think it's clear to everyone, I'm not going to say anything new. When the municipality, the city, the county, the state, especially the public company, when it calls public procurement, I ask you how many entrepreneurs have dropped the appeal, gave up the appeal solely for reasons because on the first next or one of the following public procurements almost certainly, I do not claim that it is a rule, but almost certainly that entrepreneur will not be able to get that job through public procurement. It will be disabled in various ways. We have one case here in Međimurje County. A single building tender has been opened, three bids have come, a cancellation of the tender. Second invitation to tender, one bid has come, the competition is cancelled again. The third invitation to tender, the public partners in the third tender, place one of the measures, watch one of the measures, the bidder proves his insolvency by proving that he achieved a minimum of 5 million kuna in the previous year. And that contest selected a partner. These others probably didn't complain to the Public Procurement Control Commission, maybe they did, I don't know, because there's no reason why because the public partner stated in the terms of the tenders that insolvency is proven with a minimum of 5 million kuna profits. There are no elements here, but the key is, a friend got a job and a friend works the facility. The Commission should therefore enter into the procedure for the control of public procurement, inter alia. Next...... I won't say which, but I said county. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, I'm all institutions, and I'm willing to say it... Ask your colleague Lesar if you know it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Go on. The fact is that there is a Public Procurement Control Office in the Ministry of Economy. Now it's my question who controls who. For, among other things, in the public procurement administration, it writes among other things that this administration submits an indictment to the competent criminal court, i.e. a criminal application to the competent state attorney to cooperate with the national authorities etc., etc. Did we get their report? Whether an independent public procurement control commission may have received their report, so it is included in this I do not know. But I don't know who's doing what. For the commission whose report we're discussing today, I'm clear, but I'm interested in what's going on with this committee. Go on. The fact is that, thanks to public procurement and as a rule to public partners, primarily public enterprises, an extremely large one has been initiated through public procurement, for the state an extremely harmful chain of liquidity. That's a fact. Under the law, in order for a public partner to call a tender, he must have the resources provided for in the budget and point. If there's any real means it doesn't even matter, it doesn't even matter. A year ago, the Croatian People's Party Club referred to Parliament's procedure for amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, and among other things, it would oblige a public partner or prevent a public partner from going into public procurement until he settled the old accounts. It would be binding on the public partner since the public partner has the right to seek and demand a variety of payment insurance, quality assurance of the performance of works, seriousness etc., etc. And I think it would be a minimum of decency for a public partner to perform the work and to have some kind of guarantee of payment. Not a word of honor, but a guarantee that can be charged. However, that legal proposal has been sitting in the living room for a year and has not yet come to debate. Very clearly, we understand why he didn't come to the hearing. It's perfectly clear to us what motives are, but that's exactly what we link to the fact that we have a Commission to control public procurement that goes into public procurement procedures only after someone's complaint has been made. And again, I ask the question why and why do we not allow the Commission of Public Procurement to enter the public procurement process at any time? Who decides that? The Croatian Parliament. Not the government, not the ministry. I know we've got the State's Attorney's office, we've got the Bounce, we've got it all, but we've spent a lot of words on it. The people who are qualified to do so, and the Public Procurement Control Commission, are certainly trained to be the ones who can be effective in controlling public procurement. Not by calling a tender, choosing a partner, but by controlling the execution of a contract resulting from public procurement. And final. We at the club, I will repeat again, we at the Croatian People's Party club will support this report, but we reiterate the need for the state procurement control commission to enter public procurement at any time, not only in the appeal procedure. Because that very fact loses its fundamental sense of control. It loses its basic sense of control, but at the same time I want to, and the report says, I would especially like to emphasise the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is that this team committee is also writing in the report, and certainly the most qualitative part of this report is just the assessment, Chapter V, of the public procurement situation assessment. I repeat, in those writing elements, and especially in the writing elements between the lines, we are responsible and how responsible we are to the practice so far. We can say we're not responsible. Because those who implement that system are not responsible. But let us show our responsibility in a way that we participate in the creation of a body, an effective body, especially in the field of public procurement control, in a field of corruption that has been spent a lot of words but in a very precise and concrete way without demagogy and without the figurines in my pocket and without saying at the end of the divorce type, not to mention the name of fellow representatives who keep trying to do so in all serious topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48310	The HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48311	Dear Vice President, honourable representatives of the State Commission, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the outset, it is necessary to highlight and commend a very content report, in which, in addition to the data of a statistical nature, other indicators are also relevant for the creation of a quality picture of the work of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, including particularly highlighted information on the anti-corruption action of the State Commission, and an assessment of the state of supply, which indicates that the State Commission not only solves complaints in the area of public procurement but also detects any problems, and makes recommendations on how these problems are and solves. The report indicated that the work of the State Commission has improved significantly due to many significant changes both in the legislation and in the institutional structure in the area of public procurement systems. Thus, a circle of persons who have been actively legitimateized to make an appeal was expanded, and there was also an increase in the stage at which a complaint could be made in public procurement proceedings resulting in a significant increase in the number of appeals cases before the State Commission. Furthermore, the amendments to the legislation also allowed maximum transparency in the work of the State Commission, as the State Commission is now obliged to publish all decisions in full form on its websites as well as all other public interest and data. According to the 2008 report, there was an exceptional increase in the number of complaints lodged compared to the previous year by as much as 62.45%. The main reason is that the adoption of a new Public Procurement Act is already indicated, which extends active legitimacy and enables more-stage complaints during the procurement process as well as trust in the institution. During 2008, 968 cases were resolved, or 90.1% of all cases received, compared to the number of cases solved in 2007 increased by 55.66%. The State Commission shall receive an average of 85 cases per month. It is evident that the State Commission is achieving good results and is trying to quickly resolve complaints in public procurement procedures, as well as the fact that parties in the control and public procurement procedure before the State Commission do not often decide to seek judicial protection from the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. This was done in only 41 of the 968 resolved cases, which means 95.77% of all decisions made by the State Commission acquired an attribute of power without using administrative protection. And it is important to stress that the vast majority of administrative lawsuits brought against the State Commission's solution concerns a decision on the costs of the appeal procedure. The reasons for the weak use of party rights in proceedings before the State Commission are given the satisfaction of parties to the decisions of the State Commission, as well as the length of the judicial procedure leading to the ineffectiveness of that remedy. The report noted that 15% of complaints were rejected due to irregularities, inadequacy and malignancies, which represent a slight decline compared to 2007, and may indicate the need for complainants to have procedural assumptions about the legal protection process in public procurement. Although this could be expected in the first year of the application of the new legislation, since the whole appeal procedure has already been thoroughly explained on the website of the State Commission to believe that in the future the appeal process will be reduced to a minimum for these reasons. Finally, the report also lists recommendations that should be corrected, amended or supplemented in order to generally improve the state of supply. These recommendations should certainly be taken into account and work on their implementation, and ultimately implement them as soon as possible and succeed. Therefore, the Croatian Peasants' Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48312	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48313	I see the wine's still been working since lunch. Thank you very much. ... And wine veritas, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] White, black, whatever. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow representatives, presidents, President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Let me say in a few sentences the position of the SDP Representatives Club on this report. First, we will support the Commission's report on the control of public procurement procedures and we believe that it has been done in quality and that it is in some way showing progress in the work of the Commission. On the other hand, the change of laws, like in the report, has consistently increased the scope of work, we think that control is done in a better way than it was before 2008, so that we can say everything positively about this report, we hope that the work will be even better in the future. The other thing we have to mention is what is being done and when we talk about reports like this, we have to say what is essentially being controlled. One area that is nominally valid in Croatia is controlled 45 billion kunas of budget money, money from public companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Croatia, money from Croatian citizens, which is often spent irrationally. We have witnessed the last half of the year, the year that doubts, how many proceedings have been initiated, and in the procedures of certain public procurement that this money has not been spent in a justified manner. What can be read from the report, which means there were a thousand and 20 complaints, a thousand 24 complaints on 18 thousand proceedings. It is about 5% of the proceedings under which the complaints were made, but it is not, it is not in correlation with the value of these proceedings. The value is over 13 billion. So for somewhere around 30% of the value of public procurement is included in 5% of the complaints that have been made. It means that what can be read out of it is that complaints are most often filed on those jobs that are more valuable and that try to use non-transparently through the value of purchases. What can also be seen, out of the thousands of 24 public procurement, or complaints about public procurement procedures, as many as 36% of those justified, or the procedure has been annulled, and most of all, so somewhere around 222 procedures have been completely annulled. If they were to apply this analoguely to the overall public procurement process in Croatia, then 45 billion would come to the conclusion that around 16.17 billion budget money is spent non-transparently. 17 billion kunas in Croatia if, and this is quite a large poll I would say, because I don't believe that the rest of the procedures are perfect, because quite often people don't even decide to complain, discouraged that if they complain they won't get a job or that there's no use in that. So this is one relevant survey that tells us that 36% of public procurement procedures in Croatia are spent non-transparently. 17 billion kuna. When we witness that most often in these procedures work is overpaid, because of what is being placed on someone through special conditions or something, about 40 to 50%, we come to a simple conclusion of 8 to 9 billion kunas of money that goes through public procurement in some way I would say darken, or spend untransparently and end up in someone's pockets, and that shouldn't have been. Eight to nine billion kuna, ladies and gentlemen. Let me just tell you in 2010. We took 3 billion kunas to Croatian citizens through a crisis tax, through an increase in VAT, and 8 to 9 billion kunas leak through public procurement where there is no such thing as will and desire to prevent it. Why don't they exist? So because the government, i.e. the ruling coalition, manages these budget most users, ministries, largest enterprises, etc., 8 to 9 billion kuna. That there is no will, that this process is more effectively controlled says another data, 6 million kunas are spent annually, that is, only 2 million kunas are spent, and 4 million kunas due to the State Commission on the functioning of the commission, 6 million kuna a year we spend that the commission can function, and they control 13 billion. Do you think it's a bit inconsistencies? Does it seem to you that there is no political will to help the commission in more efficient work? The Commission warns throughout this report that it is not teamed up enough, warns that there is no adequate space, that almost double the number of cases that must be processed, but still the state, I think first of all of the government is not giving budgetary planning any support to that commission so that it can work more effectively. So much for how sincere it is for this commission to do what it's supposed to do, and for it to effectively control public procurement. Maybe if we had three times as many employees there were a lot less malfeasance, a lot less people sitting in Remetec today. It is also evident that the government has no will in some way to effectively control this area through proposals for a new law. We asked and I personally wrote an amendment asking that the commission must have a programme of work not only to control the appeal process, but to handle certain companies of the public, the ministries where the whole procedure can be controlled and thus to prevent large sums of money from being obtained through public procurement, I said it was from 8 to 9 billion kuna. What's special to me, what's particularly interesting to us in this report is the number of orderers to which the complaint was most filed. And now look, in these lists dominate, look at the wonders of Croatian highways and Croatian roads. Is that something new? Could that have already been assumed? About 2008 we're talking. So this report has already been seen and alerted to such irregularities. In particular, the most cancelled competitions were in the Croatian highways, as many as 16, while there were 9 cancellations in the Croatian roads. On the other hand, we and the ministries, the ones that should be the most responsible in spending budget money. The largest of all ministries and the second in a row is the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, which has as much as 19 outstanding public competitions in 33 controls. And another interesting piece of information, the Family Ministry, the defenders and the intergenerational solidarity of eight applications, six of them were annulled. So, as much as 75% of the 2008 applications in the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity have been cancelled. In 2008, the minister was then the current prime minister who is now propagating a major fight against corruption and economic crime, and in her ministry where she was directly responsible for 75% of the appeals proceedings in 2008. So much for the will of the current government to fight non-transparentity and illegal business in ministries and other authorities under the control of the authorities. What I would finally point out is absolutely necessary on the basis of this report to draw a conclusion that would oblige the State Audit to go into these leaders, I would say, non-transparent behaviours that are mentioned here. So anyone who's had more than 5, 6 cancellations or more than 50% cancellations, it's not about non-recognition of matter, it's not about coincidence, it's about a systematic outflow of money from the state budget. No one can convince me that 75% of the outstanding tenders are based on complaints, appeal procedures at the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity by accident. That's impossible. Because if it's repeated year after year, then I guess the responsible person, the minister or someone else, should see what's going on, what's happening, educate people to send them away, and somehow order them not to do it that way anymore. So there's no ignorance here, I'm saying that because things like that don't sanction it every year. I must say there are also positive examples, the ministries that have all been implemented clean, as the Ministry of Environmental Protection, etc. So it's not true that everywhere is the same situation. Public enterprises are leaders, but unfortunately some ministries like I said. Finally, any support to the State Commission for further work, as regards the SDP, if so, will come very quickly to the budget rebalance very likely on the agenda of this Assembly. We're going to ask for an increase in resources if it's possible for your work to be more teamed up because it's impossible to work with 24 people and to control such a big thing. I think absolutely this agency is underrated at this point, that it needs to be given more support. Finally, another sentence, which is that we should not only declare that we are fighting non-transparency, should show this in practice, and unfortunately this report completely deprives the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its intention to make budget money more transparent, more quality and economical spending in ministries and other users and public procurement bonds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48314	Thank you. 6 corrections, first Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48315	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect assumption that through public procurement, 8 to 9 billion kunas per year. This is obviously the data that are fabricated and produced in the SDP because none of the official institutions have published or published it because it is incorrect, it is not true. Secondly, when you were talking about the current prime minister and her ministry while she was running it, you should have looked at how many tenders the ministry had, hundreds and thousands of tenders, and if 5 or 6 complaints were adopted in the procedure, then it was quite clear that there was no illegal treatment. And if you were honest then you could read the State Audit report that gave the Ministry the unconditional opinion, so there were no objections in the State Audit findings.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48316	Second, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48317	Well, the inaccuracy of fellow Maras, I don't know how he got here, this is some kind of... math, actually manipulation to fool the public. He came that 75% of these cases were annulled by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Well, look, it's said to have filed 8, the number of complaints received is 6, and this 75% is exactly that 75% of the complaints were received, and that's the 6. So don't manipulate it. So 75%, that 75% of the complaints were received, and that means if the complaint was adopted, then you can't manipulate it to be a fraud or something wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48318	Third, Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support this commission and that there is no political will for the work of this commission. The Commission's report just says the opposite, that it has the government's support and that it has the political will to work the commission. And this is evident from the fact that all the items that this commission has received have been resolved within the time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48320	Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48321	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that a report by the State Commission said a colleague had denied the government of the Republic of Croatia that the state of public procurement was being corrected. On the contrary, this report shows that the situation is very much improving, to a far greater number of controls that the commission has made, we have a result that compares to the smaller number of cases. So no more illegal or at least denied public procurement. Second, it's incorrect for the ministry to give the worst results. Health institutions, for example. have more cancellations than the number of competitions than all ministries combined. So that's not true either. And finally, what Frano Matušić said 8 to 9 billion is an arbitrary number and the commission tells you that it is impossible to say how much abuse is being used in public procurement because there are no extensive statistics to prove it at all. In the election campaign, we heard six billion, two billion before that. It's a bid that's dangerous, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48322	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here are my colleagues, and they've already fixed it, but since my colleague Maras has said it several times, so will I. Namely, I quote "The report completely rejects the government in its efforts to rationalise consumption", just as he also said that when he spoke and presented examples of the ministries he said I quote "this proves how much the government wills to fight corruption" just as Professor Hebrang said, however, fellow Maras, you only use the thesis, so as you do when it suits you. This report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2008 has just shown that the government is willing and is working to fight corruption. Another thing you've said to your colleagues is that it will come to this assembly very soon, and I quote: "very quickly the rebalancing of the state budget". So I would like to correct you now and warn you that this has been said by an unauthorized proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48324	Okay. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48325	I'd like to correct my colleague's misstatement because I think he's misreading this data. So it is absolutely incorrect to interpret that if it is stated somewhere that 75% of complaints have been accepted, that these tenders have been annulled, that there are maximum incorrect procedures, etc. And where zero is that they're correct. We do not see from this data at all how much this institution has carried out the tenders and that this percentage of these complaints can be quite minor. And secondly, if there's an appeal, it doesn't mean it's illegal, because here's the president of the commission who knows very well that sometimes for very formal reasons these tenders are being annulled, so where there's no story of abuse of any kind of crime or some sort of setup.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48326	Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48327	Since Article 209 was injured, 210 of my colleagues warned of something I had not said at all. I didn't say that 75% of the contests in that ministry were wrong and that it wasn't done correctly, but the fact is that from eight, six is wrong. So that's already a sample of my colleague Kovacevic. I said 75% of complaints are basic. I'm not good at math. So most of the tenders in which the complaint was filed are based, i.e. it's said in a way that there's something wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48328	What does it say on that tile, a colleague of Maras you picked up? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48329	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48330	I don't think that applies to me. An individual debate Mr. Representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48331	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the state commission, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let's clear up the position of the state commission. Therefore, the Commission is a body of Sui Genis independent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Croatia's public procurement policy should not be interpreted or interpreted as acting by the Commission itself. So, the Commission is independent of the Government of the Republic, at least it should be according to the European Union's intensities. Unfortunately, our commission is limited by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because the law provides that the only proposing member of the commission is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's a huge dependence on the government commission. The second thing that's restrictive for the government is that it can't initiate a procedure to control the public procurement of ex-offo by official duty, so it can't do it alone, but only by appeal. The third limit is that the commission takes action just to say 6% of public procurement procedures. Everything beyond that is beyond the range of success of work or public procurement in the Republic of Croatia. Through these 6% can possibly be controlled according to the statistical data provided by the commission alone somewhere one third of the total funds spent through public procurement. And the commission itself tells us that the data on purchases is up to 200 thousand incorrect, because of course she doesn't have them. We should have such information because we are controlling, the Parliament is controlling public procurement procedures, because the commission alone gives the Parliament the obligation to give a report on its work. It should be added that the Commission itself refers to direct out-of-control contracts. Direct contracts in the out-of-control procurement process. But colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about the State Commission's report on public procurement procedures, we should really talk about the total or the ratings we have on public procurement in the Republic of Croatia. So to complain to counterpart Maras that he wrongly said that the Ministry of Family, Defence, intergenerational solidarity had 8 cases with the commission and of 8 cases that the Commission 6 had adopted the complaints' demands and that it was 75%, we cannot deny it. ... But she adopted it, so that's what it says. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Adopted. The number of complaints adopted means that the procedure for the public tendering procedure was illegal. He wasn't complaining about legality. He was complaining about illegality. Or that the oil industry had 50% of such cases, that Croatian roads had 50% of such cases, etc. If we don't want to see it, then we participate in a certain way in our kindness in the abuse of public procurement procedures. But something we really need to say, so there is still normative optimism in Croatia. So, we created a commission, Commission law and we expect the commission to control public procurement in Croatia without hiring the Government of the Republic of Croatia through inspections, the Government of the Republic of Croatia through state administration or through the Ministry of Finance, the Government through the Government's Office for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures or for the Monitoring of Public Procurement in the State. Without that, without prevention, the government certainly participates in a public procurement raffle. She's responsible and without guilt. That's how the Constitution set things up. He's got tools to control. If it does not use it, it is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it is obvious that so far the Government has not used neither the inspection nor the state administration, nor the police, nor the financial police, nor the other instruments it has with it to combat public administration is evidence that the wave of procedures initiated either from the DORH or from other levels is actually a campaign rather than systematicity. Speaking of campaigns, it is not allowed for the anti-corruption campaign to seek to level out political options in the process. It's the most difficult abuse of law and morals in politics. So we can't even it out, it's simply not possible to even it out, so either whose wish is responsibility or corruption in Croatia's opposition and government positions and parliamentary majority positions with the opposition. The opposition does not sign any of the procurement procedures or conclude an implementation contract. Therefore, it should be held accountable in prevention, so that there will be no waves of corruption and waves in accusing, processing and investigating public procurement procedures. Of course, in a country where wealth has been without work for almost 20 years, it has been very difficult to resolve the social relations that were created on purpose through a six-month campaign, which is unintentional, because indeed the sources of corruption in Croatia have been systematically built through conversion and privatisation for 20 years. If this is added that policy without principle and value has been dominant for the last five, six years then it is very difficult to expect that the cut will be resolved without the long-standing insistence of all the entities responsible in a democratic society to fight evil, corruption and crime. That is why I must say that the commission has been very correct and very consciously analysed by the situation in which the Commission itself is located. From the Commission's report to conclude that the commission is removing responsibility for failures that it cannot influence in the public procurement process that does not come before it in the appeal process. Of course I'll vote for the State Commission Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48332	Thank you. Replica Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48333	This fellow Leko, with whom you have completed your speech, I think it is also the essence of the full report and otherwise our public procurement issues, that the report is correct, that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has done its job well. Of course it's just one part of the job and the problem of public procurement. That the biggest problem is what is not unfortunately in the domain of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures because no complaints have been filed. We were also telling the law that exactly the state commission should be given new powers, a new prerogative that there is a possibility especially when we see from all international reports how most of the corrupt actions take place right through the public procurement control process, and even most of it after the job is obtained than in the process itself or part of the process when jobs are obtained. Unfortunately, many still resent the fear that the appeal is made, that they address the state commission because they are aware that local self-government units, in certain units of local self-government, will never get jobs again and even speak to them in certain ministries. And it's a public secret, everybody knows that. Therefore, at the moment, we should reconsider that at this stage, the state commission should have the authority to "ex oho" control such suspicious activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48334	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48335	Dear Vice President, the president of the committee with his associates, fellow MPs. First of all, I would say something in principle and I think it concerns all these reports submitted to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, that I should discuss them by the first half of the current year at the latest, and then these discussions would be more interesting than when we discuss the 2008 reports that have already been somewhat outdated for me. So I don't see why it takes so long to even spend time here to discuss these reports of those bodies that are required to report to the Parliament. Normally, this Commission for the Control of Public Procurement would be more interesting then, which is the report fresher then the debate is also more interesting because this body is certainly of paramount importance to the state and its economy in the fight against corruption. That is why it is certainly important for the work of the state commission to be public, transparent and thus achieve those anti-corruption effects that we all want together. The goal is certainly to clean public procurement from corruption because otherwise, public procurement is like a Swedish corruption table. Public and private interests are intertwined through public procurement, so it is important to prevent all those deciding on the value of public procurement, and sometimes they are not economically rational. they are not cost-effective enough to spend budgetary resources or to put private interests above public interests. Because of the fact that there are those who neglect the public interest of citizens, taxpayers who have no insight into the background of public procurement transactions, the perception of the presence of corruption in public procurement is extremely poor, extremely high, over 50% of citizens believe corruption is present in public procurement. This perception of the public is contributed by the fact that in 2008, a whole series of contracting entities, companies or companies, institutions, means those who have violated the legal procedures of public procurement in public or local ownership. For example. I will only count some, unlike colleagues of Maras whose complaints are not respected or respected in the process of less than 50%, and they are part of the reports. Among the first is Zagreb Holding, then Croatian Radio Television, then City of Rijeka, then City of Split, then HZ infrastructure, then City of Pula, and some ministries unfortunately. And unfortunately, it's rare who actually adhered to the criteria for the most economically favourable offer of a private partner for certain jobs. In order to ensure that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement in the future is as effective as possible and to carry out quality work as possible, it prevents the conclusion of harmful contracts and this corruption behaviour in public procurement, I agree, that it should be strengthened humanely and that the number of employees in the Commission should be increased as soon as possible, means the number of perpetrators working in the State Commission. And I think it's also very important, and that should be pointed out, which, by amending the Public Procurement Act of 1 January last year, abolished a category of secret procurement that many have said was actually corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48336	Two replicas. First, Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48337	Dear colleague Kunst, I agree with you that this year's reports should be in the first half of the year that follows the year for which they are submitted, but I will remind you that sometimes it can be good this way when several factors are put together. Well, let me remind you, at this session, we passed a new Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, and we still had fresh discussions on the left side of this assembly when we talked about the law. There is another good fact, which is that on the agenda of this session and the report on the work of the Office of the State Audit for 2009 and in that particular part of the audited budgets and beneficiaries of the 2008 budget. And it's not bad, and when we have materials like this, we can parallelize them and we can influence them and remember what their colleagues were saying and what they're going to say because the theme is very similar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48338	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48339	My colleague Bilić, surely it is not bad when we get those reports better than never, but surely every report if you get in a period that is far shorter than a year and a half that you can then certainly discuss this report better. I think the 2008 report, and now even in 2007 to appear, I think it's more counterproductive to waste too much time at all to discuss it, because if it goes through a year, two, I think there's no need. And for this reason, I will continue to argue that the actual reports are up until half the following year discussed for all those bodies who are obliged to submit their reports to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48340	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48341	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunst, I'm glad you joined my debate and analyzed the bodies, the institutions with regard to complaints had worse results. If we're talking about how many complaints or public procurements and relations there are in some ministry or some company, I see two three worrying objects here. If there are even 33 complaints in the Ministry of Regional Development, I do not believe that this ministry has more than a thousand public procurements. It has 33 complaints that it is certainly a relevant sample for that ministry, and of those 33 19 it has been positively resolved, so more than 58% of the cases are for public procurement incompatible with the law. So you absolutely need to take care of the ones who make the most mistakes here, and in turn you confirm that they are the most problematic because we read them every day in the paper. Here you are, HAC, HEP, Ministry of Regional Development, Croatian Roads, etc., so these are the ones already confirmed by the affairs in the media and so this just comes to us as evidence. And I agree with you that this report should come much earlier because perhaps some of these affairs could be avoided and there might be less damage to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48342	Replication response, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48343	Comrade Maras, here we finally agreed. And I agree with you, as you do with me, and I really think that it is safe to list these contracting authorities who most often violate the legal provisions in the public procurement process that this should be reduced to a minimum especially when it comes to individual ministries, and normally here I think of these companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. Here I think that we fully agree and in any case someone was saying today, I think that a colleague of Leko or someone, that it should also allow the Commission for the procurement procedure not only to intervene on the basis of some complaints but also to intervene on a number of occasions where it suspects that legal provisions are being violated in any case. So in that section, it is safe to see that these high percentages of unaccepted complaints are avoided. Because, you know, what you've listed where the number of complaints received doesn't basically mean that there's a public procurement procedure and that it's not respected. So I don't see it that way, but I'm saying I fully agree with you that there's a lot to be done here to prevent these ministries from having a very small number of ordering errors, i.e. the public procurement commission refuses them these complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48344	How nice it is to have HDZ and SDP agree this brotherly way. That's really touching. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48345	Dear Vice President, President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. In 2008, 40 billion kunas passed through the public procurement system. The state commission has been reviewing public procurement procedures with a total value exceeding 13 billion kuna, so we can say that it actually controlled 30% or every third kuna that was engaged in public procurement operations in 2008. It is obvious that huge money is being turned in public procurement, and because of this fact it is a very fertile area for illegal treatment and for corruption. The Commission's report shows that during 2008, the number of complaints lodged on public procurement procedures increased more than 62% compared to 2007. It is true, and this should be said to such high number of complaints, it has partly contributed to the new system of legal protection in public procurement since 1 January 2008 which has been inaugurated by the new Public Procurement Act, which has significantly extended the possibility of investment in complaints as regards the increase in the number of stages at which the appeal can be made in public procurement procedures and as regards the extension of the round of potential complainants. In addition, during 2008, the Commission was significantly expanded in part-work, given that it was also given jurisdiction to resolve complaints in concession procedures as well as in public-private partnership procedures. This huge work commission has actually done with very modest resources both spatial and human and material. When it comes to people, it should be pointed out that the job was done with twice the number of perpetrators compared to the planned number. Of course, because of the pressure, because of the exhaustion of people, they're leaving and it's a huge fluctuation. When speaking of financial support, however, it should be said that the approved budget of the Commission for 2008 amounted to 6 million kuna and that, at the same time, through the cash compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure, the commission made the state budget of 4 billion kuna. It is obvious that two thirds of the budgets are practically provided by the Commission alone, i.e. that the state does not cost much. We can practically see about 2 million kuna from this relationship, and there are very significant effects. These effects are primarily educational and then anti-corruption, through the annulment of illegal procedures and the prevention of the conclusion of harmful contracts in public procurement. If we have all this in mind, then it is surprising that the Government does not give the Commission a stronger transport in the performance of its tasks or through the provision of the necessary business space, or through the provision of the necessary number of professional executives. This is the government's attitude towards the State Commission to define it by its relationship to corruption, which it has the most in public procurement right now. And that the government's relationship to corruption is more declarative than it shows true and real willingness to best illustrate the prime minister's oath to fight corruption to the last breath, zero tolerance to corruption, and at the same time demonstrates full support and protection for the minister in which billions of kuna have disappeared. It is also the data from this report that prove where the biggest crime hotspots are in public procurement. It's true and there's a lot of misunderstanding, the commission can't provide information about contracting entities most often breaking the Public Procurement Act. So here we have, we can only say partial data. However, some conclusions can also be drawn on the basis of available data on public procurement that were found before the Commission as subject to the appeal procedure. The highest percentage of complaints received in relation to the number of complaints brought before the Commission, therefore, are complaints which have been justified in a high percentage. It is registered right on the Croatian roads, in Croatian highways, then at the Ministry of Regional Development, etc. Finally, it is important to stress that a large increase in the number of complaints lodged in 2008 compared to 2007, and a number of complaints representing an attempt to obstruct public procurement procedures. It's just, I'm gonna call them that on duty. So companies that literally complain about all public procurement procedures and actually abuse, are devalued by the Institute of Appeals. They not only abuse the State Commission but are holding back and extending public procurement procedures. For such reasons, we have already heard such proposals today think about changing the system of application fees in such a way that they are significantly increased, i.e. they are determined as a percentage of the value of the purchase. This would certainly significantly reduce or even prevent the submission of unfounded complaints, and this would also significantly redeploy the work of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures. For the sake of quality, I will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48346	Thank you. At 18.13, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48347	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, Madam President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. This report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2008, I must say first of all, that it has been done in quality and should be supported. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures was established in 2003 and has submitted several reports under this founding law to this Assembly. These were the reports with which the State Commission ended in 2007 and ended its first term. And the essential feature of these reports is that the cycle of the old Public Procurement Act has been completed and this report has been fully drawn up in accordance with the new Public Procurement Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2008. It is important to know that 2008 was extremely important for the development of a public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia. In 2008, a number of significant changes were made both in the legislation and in the institutional structure in the area of public procurement systems. All these changes have had an impact on the work of the state commission, as changes to the legislation have led to an expansion of the circle of persons who are actively legitimate to make a complaint. There has also been an increase in the stage at which the public procurement process can be declared, resulting in an increase in the number of appeals cases before the state commission. During 2008, there was an increase in complaints lodged compared to the previous year. What it says in the light of the new Public Procurement Act is statistics. The comparisons of the number of cases received from 2004 to 2007 which 761 subjects received continuously dropped to 637 received in 2007 in order to increase to a large thousand and 20 cases by applying the new Public Procurement Act in 2008, which is almost 63%. The new Public Procurement Act allows tenderers to now lodge complaints at a certain stage of the procurement process, and the course of the procurement procedure is not interrupted, which means that more complaints can be lodged in a public procurement procedure at different stages of the public procurement process, and that the procedure itself can be completed by removing the irregularities observed. The appointment of a new call by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures resulted in the receipt of 553 complaints by the end of the year, which means that the number of complaints lodged at the end of 2008 has exceeded the average number of complaints lodged per month in the last four years. So during 2007, an average of 53 complaints were received during the month, so 138 in 2008 in the last, average by month. The State Board of Appeals cannot initiate proceedings under official duty, but is leading them at the request of the complainants, and what is important is the perception of public procurement is largely linked to corruption, the anti-corruption effect is achieved by establishing a state commission as an independent institution that provides legal protection and thus ensures and enables the rule of law to be strengthened and sanctioned. So in the government's own Anti-Corruption Strategy, the state commission is one of the important instruments in the fight against corruption. Since it repeals public procurement procedures establishing the conditions for cancellation, it thus prevents the conclusion of harmful contracts financed from the state budget or from public undertakings. The state commission has increased the volume of work and transparency of its work, has significantly improved the legal protection system in the public procurement process and I will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48348	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48349	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Commission. Here are just a few suggestions regarding the report, and one comment of previous discussions between colleagues and colleagues. A thousand 20 complaints, 24 employees. The conclusion could be the only one. You've had a hell of a lot of work. Congratulations on your work. But what can't be determined from the data of these with certainty is that the data can be interpreted differently because there's neither evidence nor confirmation where there was no complaint that everything was transparent, nor is there confirmation that it was non-transparent where the complaints were, or where the complaints were received. That's exactly what prevented the intransparency. So I'm surprised at the ease of finding individuals here who have easily concluded, especially that it's a corrupt amount of 6 or 9 billion kuna. I think that conclusion is pretentious and unserious. The state commission played a major role in preventing corruption, and what would suggest that the report would be even more content, more quality, what I am personally interested in is the nominal amount. So the total number of posts, the total number of nominal amounts per post, the nominal amount per complaint, because it's not the same if someone complained about 8 let's say the total value of 100 thousand kuna or 8 publications worth 10 billion kuna. That might actually be a more objective conclusion. This is how it's all dangerous to conclude, because it can lead us into doubt and wrong conclusions. I would also suggest that there are more detailed reasons for the adoption of the appeal, and the truth is that very often complaints are accepted from purely procedural errors. So all of us are led to find it difficult to make mistakes in our conclusions. What is also missing, which would suggest a review of the complainant, the total number of complainants most often complained about, how many complaints they have made and how many complaints were accepted or rejected. This would give us a picture of whether someone is abusing the position he has and a legal framework that allows him to appeal because he just wants to be dominant and always complains when he doesn't get a job. From this report I see who complains that there are those who want to be dominant. And no, we'll get clear information if someone complained 15 times and all 15 times his appeal was denied. But we'll also get a clear picture if someone complained 15 times and all 15 times accepted a complaint. It suggests that individuals may be deprived or abused. That would do a lot of good to get a general picture. I certainly support the idea, and I put it on the board to raise the fee for the appeal procedure, but I'm not for it to be determined by the value of the publication. Why? Because there's an equal range of work waiting for you whether it's a hundred thousand kuna or a million kuna. Your technical part of the job requires equal engagement and time and mental effort. In that this fee is not returned to those who lose the dispute, to whom the appeal is denied, but to those to whom the complaint has been accepted. This would, at least I think, and that would be good, we could fully finance the Commission's action to control public procurement procedures, which I think with this number, we would also reduce the number, but so that you could finance your business entirely independently of the state budget. And also, most importantly, to complete your human potential as it seems necessary to me from this report because you cannot function fully effectively with 24 employees, and you need at least 32 more and you need 6 other professional associates under emergency, and you can make this change through self-financing and increased compensation possible. Of course there are excuses likely for the delay, but it is not exactly time in 2010 to discuss the 2008 Report. Thank you very much. I support the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48350	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures with Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. As my previous colleague, Maric, I will say that the reason for my reporting for this debate was precisely at this session to adopt a new Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, which I have already said in my replica of my colleague Kunst, because at that time the opposition in this House was speaking all negatively, at least about the law itself, but about the Commission and what the task was mostly negative. And then this 2008 Work Report came along, and I'm not going to repeat why it's good to debate it today even if it's too late because I respect what the president wrote about the delay due to the great involvement of workers in the 2009 cases. And I'm saying, I see this report that shows a significant shift in the work of the State Commission since that report was filed for 2007. The report was also given a positive opinion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I immediately support and commend it at the beginning of my debate. It should also be recalled that the year for which the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures was reported was the year in which the new Public Procurement Act entered into force and which, due to the absence of implementing rules at that time, did not allow for one month of public procurement procedures, so in January 2008. The year is in which amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act have been made. A new Law on concessions, a Law on Public Private Partnership, has been adopted and the five-year term of office has begun in the new assembly of the State Commission. Annual reports on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures are an insight into the public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia, but only in the light of the sample because the State Commission does not control all public procurement procedures but only those in which the complaint is made. And the report shows that the number of complaints in 2008 increased by 62.45% compared to 2007 because a total of 1020 complaints were made. Do we know that the new Public Procurement Act has increased the number of persons with active legitimacy for the application, that the possibility of investing an appeal has been extended throughout the procedure and that a new way of recording administrative proceedings has been introduced since October 2008 in the sense that all complaints lodged in one procurement procedure is recorded under the same classification number and are statistically conducted as one appeal procedure is clear that more than 1020 complaints have been lodged during 2008, but they have all been examined and resolved in 1020 appeal proceedings. I will also agree with the claim made in this report that the increase in the number of complaints and the result of the growth of confidence in this institution, which is partly annulled, here in tonight's debates, states that certain bidders are giving up the appeal because they know that I can't get a job afterwards. Of the 18 thousand 434 publications on public procurement in the "National Journals" e-procurement notice in 2008, the State Commission received 1020 complaints or 5.35%, and they refer to 455 different customers. As a result of the increase in the number of complaints lodged, which I think also led to the application of the new law, perhaps in the adoption of the appeal, but certainly there were a lot of problems with the first year of application, but this increased number of complaints also affected the overall value of the public procurement procedure, which was controlled in 2008 by the State Commission of 13 billion and 300 thousand kuna. What is also very important when we talk about preventing corruption. The increase in the number of complaints lodged was also positively reflected in the amount agreed on by the State budget on the basis of the costs of the initiation of the procedure, which amounts to 4 million kuna. And if 6 million kuna was secured in the 2008 budget for the work of the State Commission then it is evident that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has been self-financed almost 70%. Which I don't normally think is crucial for the Commission's work and I strongly reject what is being heard in the opposition debate tonight, which is that the Government does not support the work of the State Commission because from your report delivered we have not seen that there was a lack of resources for the work of the State Commission, and I am sure that the Croatian government will not save in the fight against corruption and that the required number of employees, or advisors, will also be filled out what you are looking for. But we'll hear it in the 2009 report. I hope that we can agree that the cancellation of public procurement procedures other than the correction of shortcomings and irregularities and the prevention of illegality if they were in the public procurement process itself, certainly contributes to certain savings of budgetary resources, because in the repeated procedures, the bidders generally go to a lower price of the offer. The report shall contain a review of the contracting authorities whose procurement procedures have been lodged, i.e. 4 and more appeal cases, as well as the number of complaints received in those cases. And I'm sorry that the city where I come from is the town of Slavonski Brod as a unit of local self-government in that review holds a high place as a percentage of the complaints adopted. In fact, out of the 7 cases to which the appeals were adopted, as many as 6 complaints were received, as many as 6 or 86% were accepted. The question is what with other public procurement procedures that the town of Brod carried out during 2008, which were not filed by the bidders for these or those reasons. I hope that the city has respected the legal obligation and trained employees to conduct public procurement, and that in the 2009 State Commission report there will be no or if there is and will not be in this high place following the adoption of complaints. Otherwise, when it comes to this, it would be very good to have a review, said several previous speakers, if we had a review of the complainants, because we do not seem to have gotten rid of professional complainants who have their partial and their well-known interests filed complaints about all the competitions in which they participate, thus slowing down the whole process and the damages to the contracting authorities. Clearly when their complaints are not established, when they simply want to enter a certain institution with their services, devices and similar damages to the contracting authorities in carrying out planned activities. And once again confirms that the Republic of Croatia has strengthened the institutions of the system in the fight against corruption, it also proves that, with the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, the Public Procurement System Administration and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the State Office for Audit, the Ministry of Finance relating to concessions, the Public Private Partnership Agency, and the State Attorney's Office. I believe that the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures achieves the objectives of the Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament in July 2008 because, among other things, the new Public Procurement Act has ensured greater transparency and the public's availability of the legal protection process, which allows for strengthening the rule of lawfulness and sanctioning illegal conduct, thus achieving a significant anti-corruption effect in this economic activity. From this point on, I will support the State Commission Report for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, i.e. the 2008 Work Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48352	Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48353	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's since we've moved away in time, two things that we've discussed at a committee session that I find extremely important and that really seriously consider amending the law. The first thing we've pointed to is these complaints that have no end. We have very small fees for filing those complaints. So, if someone wants to postpone a 100 million kuna contest, then crush the investor's accounts, etc. With 3 to 7 thousand kunas, he filed a complaint, stalled the procedure, and it is clear that it has adverse effects on the overall economy. So there should be thought that eventually this complaint is bound to a percentage of the value of the purchase, which would then well imagine those who complain. When he sees if he doesn't know half a percent or one percent of the sea of a hundred million, then it wouldn't have occurred to him to complain about anything, but where he really estimates that there was a breach of proceedings and that some kind of his rights were in that sense and injured. And another thing about these institutions that publish public tenders, but not about starting some investment, but about their regular business. So, first of all, I think about hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, it's about annual purchases, perhaps by several billion kunas, where we constantly have a situation to adopt a financial plan, to adopt a procurement plan, to do so at the 12th month, because it can't be done sooner, because HZZO doesn't sign earlier contracts on these quotas, restrictions, etc. only at the end of the 2nd month, and that is why competitions are published. And then we quoted this year from 1 January 2008 to 31 January 2008 because of the lack of implementing rules, public procurement procedures could not be implemented. And then we took this table of yours where you gave the average duration of the procurement process, and you say, "Time of the procurement procedure 57 days, time needed for legal protection from the client for 27 days, average time period of 30 days." So in some average not to take those maximum values, it means you lose 3 months plus this 4 months and in the best version of the 5th month you sign a contract for ordering goods and services for the current year. Those five months remain uncovered. And there was that question, in which way, first of all, those hospital institutions that can't wait for it, they have to work, they have to spend drugs, materials, etc. How to bridge those five months without going into violation of the law? So what it's supposed to look like are these contracts that are supposed to be covered in five months or four months or three months. Because hospitals come into a situation where they spend more goods and more services than they've ordered, and it's safe to break those 25%. Because if they come almost half a year, it's clear they have to break over 25%. So here we are asking that this problem be systematically approached and that, if some article of the law is needed, some kind of little change. But for the big amounts and the big problems we have in the system, so that it tries to solve it in a good way. And I won't be long. I say I pray that these two things be really seriously considered and that in some future period we get an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48354	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh: Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48355	I welcome, of course, this report, but I will take this opportunity to warn the president of the commission of a practice completely inadmissible, which is the tampering of the Department of Public Procurement of the Ministry of Economy in your business. It is known that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had its Office for Public Procurement and that its functioning under the Public Procurement Act was defined by a special regulation. Since the office has not been in place for some time, although something else is announced, and this is the Office for Central Public Procurement for the needs of the entire state administration, then the powers laid down in the regulation that have been passed on to the Public Procurement Authority which operates in the Ministry of Economy. The preventive and instructive role of this office should primarily mean a orientation towards the public sector in terms of providing quality information in all attempts and initiatives and needs of the public sector for public procurement, i.e. to be at a disposition where you cannot use quality information. At the time when the procurement procedure begins, no one has anything to do with them or should have anything to do with them but only with you. However, something else is happening in practice. I will mention one example of which you know almost everything and this is a public procurement process to build a new sports hall in Velika Gorica. So, in the second repeat competition, the first one failed precisely because of this blatant regret of one company from Slavonski Brod, which was the fourth highest bidder, so at the second repeat procedure that was conducted by the legions of artis from the beginning to the end of the town of Velika Gorica, brought the process to an end. Unfortunately, he fell at a time when the Law on the handover of office was considered controversial, which is the time between calling local elections and handing over authorities. However, the procedure was conducted months before that. And what happened? The mayor at the time came into a rift between the two laws. The law on public procurement clearly and loudly says that public procurement must be brought to an end and that this is possible either by revoking or by signing a contract, and it is said who does not act so will be punished up to 100,000 kunas and responsible persons and units of local self-government because it is believed to violate the Public Procurement Act. And on the other hand, we have a Law on the transfer of power that says that the mayor must not sign any contracts beyond a certain percentage in the time between the election and the handover of office. And what could a colleague of Picula have done? In a pinch between the two laws, in a situation where a complete procedure has been carried out in a manner that requires him to sign the contract. The new mayor is on his way and practically already from his door says he's going to cancel the contract. How? Well fine, he addressed the Municipal Court with a claim and called on the contractor who had been elected to the competition and offered him if he agreed to an appeal without the right to appeal that within eight days of the power of the court ruling, he would sign an identical contract signed by a fellow member of Picula. And people say you can give it to us in writing. The new mayor signed a pre-negotiation agreement with the construction company in Osijek, in which you make an explicit commitment that within eight days, an identical contract will be signed by the same contract as the one that was before. But what else does the mayor do? He writes a letter to the Ministry of Economy. He doesn't speak to you because he knows exactly what you would say to him. And Mrs Tamara Obradović Mazal, who was otherwise celebrated in the House of Higher Education, said that her colleague Lesar had nothing to discuss about maternity benefits because he had no birth experience, writes: "As the contract on public procurement for the construction of the current sports hall in Velika Gorica by the decision of the municipal court in Velika Gorica was declared in vain," the contract, not the procedure "the client of the town of Velika Gorica, cannot conclude a new contract on public procurement on the basis of the same selection decision, must already implement a new procurement procedure.". The secretary of state has given herself the right to arbitration in public procurement procedures. And now that poor mayor has on one side the court's decision, he has a pre-negotiation with Construction, has this high opinion issued by Minister Schuker. And what does he do? He forgets to cancel the public procurement process because then the contractor would drive him probably in administrative proceedings and ask for compensation for damages. He is not canceling the tender and reporting to 30 companies. On the day that offers are to be opened, there is a revolution because it comes from the state commission to ban any action, to suspend the proceedings. And what can he say to 30 people who came in here instead of pulling them by the nose? And what's the coincidence of all this? The town of Velika Gorica does not have or will have a sports hall for a long time, it is the biggest drama. The money that was planned in the city budget is divided into other purposes and we will never be able to raise it in this year or next year because it's money, it's big money. Who's going to make up for that? I ask from this place where did Mrs. Tamari Obradović Mazal get involved in the work of a state commission that is completely independent of Vlata? And maybe that's where the rabbit is. We're going a little bit to the other side that politics can influence because that state commission is not exactly the best address for this kind of scam because they're following the law. And what's the second step? We saw the second step, as counterpart Susana Bilic-Vardic says. At this session. We don't give you inspection powers, you put yourself on top of your head, we don't give you because you're an independent body. You could start and work on who you are. You understand? The inspection will be carried out by Mrs Tamara Obradović Mazal and her administration when needed and when reported on the party line. I'm asking you nicely, take care of someone behind your back doing a parallel. It is not good if you disobey it, it is your duty to warn the public that the Public Procurement Act is not respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48356	Thank you. Final review, President of the State Commission Vlasta Pavličević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48357	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll answer some questions. As regards the observations made by the honourable representative that it would be necessary for the State Commission to enter into the control of public procurement at any time, I note that there are other institutions that have the right to control public procurement procedures, and the law clearly provides for the jurisdiction of the State Commission and the State Commission does not have the right to control public procurement procedures under official duty. In this regard, I would point out that all proceedings are published, and any interested economic operator that has a legal interest in obtaining a public procurement contract, in the procurement in question, or who has been injured by a subjective right, has the right to appeal. I would like to ask what the Public Procurement Board is doing that the responsibility of the administration is clearly laid down in Article 168. Public procurement laws. All solutions namely the State Commission delivers the Public Procurement System Administration and the State Audit Office. All the solutions, all the decisions, actually. One of the administration's competences is to conduct surveillance, and it can be carried out on an anonymous basis. Furthermore, the State Commission may only provide information in cases which it has controlled by appeal. The value of the same, as was said, in 2008 was approximately 13 billion kunas. The rest of the funds are still out of control, but there are other bodies, like I said, in the system. So we can't say completely that it's being spent untransparently. With all this, there is a very wide circle of mourners. I note that there is no official record of how much public money is untransparently spent and now some and some of the 12.5 billion figures, 8.9 and so there may be no need for such amounts. Furthermore, I must point out that the fact that the Ministry of Defence had a certain number of complaints of which a certain number was annulled does not mean that the same bad conduct was carried out in public procurement procedures. Therefore, the State Commission does not have any information on other procedures which are not the subject of its conduct or control, but only on those which were subject to control before the State Commission. And the same goes for all the orderers, not just the ministry. I must point out that for 2010, the government has proposed an increase in funds. In fact, our budget has been increased by about 30%, which will allow us to continue our employment. Well, in the end, I'd like to thank everyone for the debate. First of all, thank you for the praises you have made, but also for the remarks that we should take into account in any case. As for the 2009 report, I hope we will be discussing the report soon. Well, thank you all again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48358	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-18-0.u48359	We move to the Annual Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2008. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the conclusion: the Annual Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure for 2008 is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? Accepted by 94 votes, so unanimously. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors! We're continuing at the 16th session. I announce that the vote on the items on the agenda would be at 12:00, so we'll see how these debates on agenda points will take place. And one more thing. We have 40 agenda points still on the agenda here. For various reasons yesterday we did not work at full capacity and full time because of this inauguration of the president and most likely that we will have to extend this session to, say, the third, fourth and fifth months. Because we won't be able to overcome it. We keep carrying 30 points of the agenda. Let's think about it. I think we're gonna have to do that, and yet, there are agenda points that we've been carrying for three, four months. Although there was a public objection that we should not have worked at all yesterday. How could we not? We were fine on inauguration perfectly fine, organized and everything and why they wouldn't work. So I'm asking for your understanding in this regard. I say now at this point we have 40 points of the agenda. We are going to the announced item on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens, first reading, P.Z. No. 502 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior Mr Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
