ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65303	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue to work and move on to the agenda point - Proposal for a Justice Reform Strategy for 2011-2015, the Government proposed this Strategy on the basis of Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Justice, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65304	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Before you is the Justice Reform Strategy for 2011-2015. So, one planned document for the next five years in which we set certain goals and in which we have defined the directions in which the judiciary will act for the next five years. Of course, before making a document like this, we also analyzed the situation in detail, we analyzed everything we have done over the past five years by fulfilling the 2006/2010 Strategy. A year. I can say that our assessment is that much has been done in the judiciary, that we have taken a number of steps, numerous reforms and, ultimately, in the latest report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the European Commission's report, this is both consistent and established. Of course there's still a lot of work ahead of us. But I would say that this 2011-2015 strategy is still a little more peaceful, a little more moderate than it was before and that we have a period of continuity, the implementation of all those laws that we have passed over the past period because of course the laws must live and the laws must become part of the process. We must also create all conditions for these laws to function and bring the desired and expected results. So we have defined exactly by segments what we are going to do in the next period. But what seems to be a priority to us, we must nevertheless say that it is extremely important to ensure the independence, impartiality and expertise of the judiciary in this period. We've done a lot in the past in this field. As is known in this year, we have changed the Constitution where certain things related to the judiciary are special appointments of the State Judicial Council, especially the appointment of the State Attorney's Council. Then abolishing that first appointment of judges for five years. We have changed this in the Constitution and, accordingly, we have changed the specific laws that regulate it. As is known, the State Judicial Council is here with us the central authority that appoints, resolves the judges, who decide on their career progress and this State Judicial Council has so far been appointed in this House. It was also one of the fundamental objections that we do not have objective and transparent criteria in the appointment and promotion of judges. And of course that's why we defined in the Constitution that the State Judiciary Council has 11 members. Of those 11 members, 7 come from the judicial profession. However, what is extremely important and what is great news the judges will in future choose their own representatives in the State Judicial Council, as well as state lawyers in the State Attorney's Council. Such a provision should guarantee further independence, further impartiality of judges who are appointed in this way, and these years we have introduced and passed laws regarding the State School for Judges acting within our Judicial Academy and have set out a completely new entry into the judicial and state-law profession. Whoever wants to be a judge, who wants to be a state lawyer, will have to finish a two-year state school in the future. In those two years, he will develop special skills, special skills, how tomorrow, when he leaves that school, he would be professional and could be caught up with the problems he has and with all the demands that this profession requires of him. The Judicial Academy has been so far, we of course had it, but within the Ministry of Justice and it has been dealing exclusively with the lifelong education of judges and state lawyers. Today, in the past period of reforms that we have implemented as a very important institution, we have singled out from the Ministry of Justice, defined it as a separate institution, and in the framework of this private institution managed by the leaders of the judiciary, we will have that initial education. So the education of judges needed to be appointed. But we'll also have that lifelong education because it's known the laws change. Tomorrow, we will become a full member of the European Union in order for our judiciary to be an integral part of this European Union, and we must train our judges in order to have standards in force in the European Union here as well. The effectiveness of the judiciary is extremely important. What we want, we want efficiency to rise to a much higher level than it has ever been. If we analyze the past period then we see that in 2004, we had about a million and 600,000 unsolved cases. Today it's about 700,000. And that's a big number. And it is certainly not negligible and our goal in the next five years is an extremely important goal to address the backlogs but to ensure that all the procedures that are being conducted, which are being led to end within a reasonable period of time. So, let us no longer come as a state to the situation that we have accumulated pending cases, that no more parties wait ten and more years for their demands to be resolved in courts, but that it be settled within a reasonable period of time. Because the justice that comes after a long time very often becomes an injustice and, of course, in a country that wants to operate in its foundations on the rule of law, something like that is inadmissible. That is why we have implemented a whole series of measures on the effectiveness of courts and justice systems so far. I'll just remind you, regarding the rationalization of the courts, we had one shredded net of a whole series of small courts where we didn't have the opportunity to specialize. We have now implemented the rationalization of municipal courts, criminal courts, county courts, trade courts where we create courts as larger units of organisational within which it is possible to specialize means our judges for individual segments of the system. Of course, the judge who specializes, who knows exactly in his segment of procedure and procedure, is the guarantee that he will make judgments faster, but that these judgments will be better quality, and that they will not be abolished and annulled in secondary proceedings. In this regard, we have improved procedural laws, I mean that we have had significant changes to the Law on the Prosecution, we have passed a completely new Law on Criminal Procedure over the past period. I remind you that the Code of Criminal Procedure is only applicable to those jump crimes, so-called. The works mean organized crime and corruption, and in the following year we are awaiting full application of the law and all other crimes. I would also like to remind you that we have created and passed a legal framework for reforming the administrative trial, so far we have a system where we have one administrative court in the Republic of Croatia that has resolved in proceedings brought on by a thorough lawsuit which has been filed on the solutions of the second-degree bodies. Since 1.1.2012, we will have two-stage administrative hearings, four first-degree administrative courts and a high-level administrative court to decide on legal remedies. What is extremely important in administrative courts, therefore, in the administrative trial of these first-degree courts, the party will have the right to access and, in contradictory discussions, it will be possible to present facts, evidence and the basis of such discussions and proceedings, of course, decisions will be taken. Extremely important administrative recently we passed a package of laws relating to the new system of enforcement, as is known to the purpose we had arranged in a way that was carried out by the court, and it was a pretty big burden for the court, and the courts were burdened by a large number of cases. We have done so over the past period one step, because we have passed on those performances based on a credible document and given authority and to the public notaries so that they can solve. This has brought us a certain acceleration, but now, according to the new system since 1.1.2012, we will have public executives as the new institute to which we transfer power to carry out the complete performance. So when the party has the power to rule or when it has an executive right, whether it is some kind of solimised contract, it will come neatly to the Public Executive Office, which will continue to take all the actions necessary to exercise its rights by virtue of these documents. We have also passed a new Law on Oversight, and a new Law on Public Executors, which defines the position of the organisation of this new system. In order for our courts to be clearly effective, in order for our courts to be quick, we must ensure not only these conditions, but we must also provide a technological organisation of the precondition, which is therefore the information of the courts. We've been working on this a lot in the past. It is known that our project is a common information system, it is a project related to land books. The land books are digitized, the land books in this system will have a common information system actually combined with the cathedral, because it is known that we have two registers, one land register that keeps records and registers of ownership, and the other is a system of catasters that actually keeps more records of the characteristics, properties and their position in the spatial plans of their characteristics. Now we'll have everything within one common information system in one place. Land books are now, of course, available in digital form and citizens can see all the data related to their properties, but this will be a much better system where both cadastrian data and land-based data will be seen in one place. The very important phase of this project is over, and we now have a final program. Now this programme needs to be filled in with all the necessary data and implementation of that system as quickly as possible. We are fully aware of the fact that today we have about 700 thousand pending cases, and precisely for the purpose of resolving these pending cases, we have come up with action plans, so we have detected which courts are the largest number of these pending cases, for these courts we have prepared special plans and we want to clean up in the next two years, so to say, our house, solve these cases and after they become effective and after this whole organization that we have dealt with these laws, we believe that in the following periods we should no longer come as a state in such a situation. These courts where there are the largest backlogs, they are, of course, a little under-capacitated about the staff, and we are in phase and in competitions, and we receive a number of people, and it's not even that many judges, but it's more about the number of writers, dactylographers, court advisors, the enrollers, and here we are in the next few months of human teaming up and we're going to solve these problems. So the key points in the next period are the continuity of all the reforms that we have started, the implementation of all the laws that we have passed. It is extremely important that the beginning of the 2nd month, at the end of the 1st month, we welcome with the new State Judicial Council, the new State-Law Council, we have taken all measures to create the conditions for these elections to be held for the DSV and DO implementation, and there are no obstacles to that being so. A first-generation competition for the state-run school of judicial officials was also launched, for 60 seats, 40 for judges, 20 for state lawyers, around 400 candidates reported. Testing's been conducted. The psychological tests are now being carried out and we will start with that school in the 1st month, which is what I would say for the first time here is such a significant project and we have received I would say a very decent assessment in the European Commission, and some countries in fact from our region, and some members of the European Union have shown great interest. We are open here, we have given the documentation, we have given them to see what kind of model we have in Croatia, I deeply believe that this model will produce good results. What is also very important in the next period is the adoption of a new Penal Code, the new Penal Code was passed by the government at the end of 2009, guidelines for the creation of a new Penal Code. Our Penal Code has been changed more than once, and of course life has gone quite far since '97. when we passed that law. The ways of business have changed, living conditions have changed, and now the law has worn out in many of its segments and does not actually meet the conditions, especially regarding the crimes of economic crime. The task force has already been formed it has been working for a longer period to draft the Penal Code and has already come out on some of the consultations with certain solutions. We will also hold a number of round tables related to individual segments and chapters of the law in order to make it possible for the public to participate as much as possible in the drafting of this law. But Croatia definitely needs a modern Penal Code, but again, which must retain that continuity, so in the transitional provisions we will make sure that everything that has happened in the past period that these norms have one continuity so that what has been done over the past period would not now be impossible to pursue under a possible new law. So these are some of the biggest challenges in the next period. An extremely important function of the State School for Judicial Officials, the Judicial Academy, because the education of judges is something that we must constantly work on, we must insist on. I'd say we made a very nice model. We had a recent judge education through a video conference. In fact, in 2 days we organized an education in the centres in Croatia, one 10 centres came to the judges and through the video conference we spent in 2 days education of about 1000 judges and we will keep this model. Because it's known a large number of new laws we've passed. Tomorrow we are a full member of the EU and our judges must be very prepared for this. So, I would say the basic 2 goals are, in my opinion, to solve the backlogs and to ensure all the conditions that we never get into a situation where we have shortfalls and that we don't get into a situation where our actions are run indefinitely long and that the parties actually go to court to count on their case being solved in 10 years so that tomorrow they don't become, how can I say, and part of the instruments of some business policy, especially with companies. Some people think that if we're in charge of this thing until the court comes to trial, we'll be able to sort it out somehow. So here, this is therefore a strategy that guarantees continuity, which guarantees the implementation of the laws that we have passed, but which also provides for some new solutions, which ensure further progress and development of our judiciary. As you saw in there, about the new organisation and the network of courts, we said that we would analyse both the needs and possibilities of forming and appeal courts because indeed our system has existed for a long time in a way that we have municipal courts in Croatia, that we have county courts, we have specialized courts, commercial courts, criminal courts and that we have a Supreme Court. We're a little short on the link between the county courts and the Supreme Court. We're a little short on that. And we will analyse in the next period and possibilities and needs to introduce possible and callable courts. Thank you very much, I suggest we accept this strategy. I thank you in advance for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65305	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65306	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. When we heard from the SDP club through information funds that the government had proposed a new Justice Reform Strategy, and now just before the constitutional break of this session, we were amazed at the short time. However, regardless of the fact that we only received this proposal for a Justice Reform Strategy, we saw that it simply continues in a way that was not even presented to the public at all. So the public is wider, and even less professional is not even familiar with this strategy. It is impossible to make strategic steps without actively involving the profession, first of all to develop such a single strategy so that the strategy can, consistently, meet and reach the strategic objectives that are set out in each strategy. That's what's missing in this strategy. The Supreme Court as well as the President of the Supreme Court, as a representative of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, as we can see they were neither having time nor could be engaged in drawing up this strategy. If we take a closer look at what this is about, and at the end of the implementation of the current strategy, or the reform of the judiciary, we see that in the good part of this proposal this strategy brings nothing new. It is rich in such general places as we were not even at the beginning when the first strategy, i.e. the reform in the Croatian Parliament, was adopted, or proposed to the Government. That's what we have on the page. 5. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is the holder of the executive authority in the Republic of Croatia. The key role in judicial reform, in operational terms, has a ministry, a minister, has essential powers in terms of the area of substantive procedural law, etc., etc., not to bother you. All of these are general places that are more like one beginning, a brief accelerated course for people to see at all what this is all about. So, at the end of the reform, we expected some further if this document had already been called a strategy, we expected some further steps and steps, but it was lagging behind. Therefore, this document cannot bear the name of the strategy, nor can it be drawn up in such a way. So, a pompous name behind which there are no these strategic new steps. Of course, the goal when it comes to reforming the judiciary of any country and then our very short, how to reach a quality and fast decision. How to get a citizen in as short as possible a quick and quality decision. It is said at the beginning that the reform of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia began in January 2006, which is notorous untrue. YES, then all that was passed and the amendments to the Law that were in every sense improvements were the improvements of fundamental laws that had been passed since 2000 to 2004. When the Constitution changed, when we passed the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, the Law on Courts, the Law on the State's Judicial Council, the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, the Implementing Law, was established, when the Law on the execution of prisons and other sanctions was passed, we practically began in a normative sense to reform our penal system, however, this is not mentioned here at all. It is not important to mention it, but it is with such one cover-up that one more important thing is given to everything that has been done since 2006. Let me just point out, in 2002 and 2003, the Law of Peace entered into force, on alternative dispute resolution, so for 7 years, the Law was in force. IF the funds were invested and all that was to be done today, 50% certainly of what was the meaning of this basic innovation and the introduction of this new system into our legal system of peaceful dispute settlement today would have 50% less cases. Because to general satisfaction and participants, i.e. The party in front of the peacemakers, they wouldn't need litigation. However, from year to year this law is occasionally mentioned, very little and little has been done except for what is done in the chamber, which is the tradition of our legal system that we should then extend to participation, i.e. subjects of general jurisdiction. So many years now, after 10 years of judicial reform, where are we now? That's what we should be asking ourselves and doing today, it doesn't matter what it's called, we're not going to go to Europe, we want to call it a strategy, but one of the analyses that we really needed, how all these good laws that we used to consensus, most of them in 2000 to 2003, and later we've passed. This is our strategic goal to unite ourselves in one of the consequential application of all these laws that represented reform procedures in our legal system, especially in the judiciary as far as they were achieved. Is today after 10 years a citizen gets a decision faster than it was before? Is she better? It may be in some segments, but in most things it remains the same and these are painful points of application. From the European Union, it is consistent and very briefly said from the European Commission, all reform procedures, especially in judicial reform, will not measure and count the amount of law you have passed rather than how they apply. It is something in which Croatia will be evaluated, unlike some other countries for which it was enough to pass only such laws. We're asked for more, and ultimately, our citizens are asking for it. So at the beginning of the reform process itself, each four-member family had one case before the court. Today, when we are at the end of the reform, every three-member family has one case before the court, and that's something that calls for an alert, that's something that has no country. Many have objected to us, perhaps you are so inefficient you have a large number of judges, you have a large number of courts. No one said that either today is not debated but it is a matter of government effectiveness, not a single ministry, and at least possibly the Ministry of Justice itself. Why is that? It means that there's little that works in the country, and then everything goes to the judiciary. The judiciary of each country was designed, designed, in such a way that it participates and solves certain cases. In our case, the judiciary is still left to resolve social relations. And that can't be. In times of crisis, the number of cases has grown drastically, and those who are key and where the largest capital is captured, the largest monetary mass, which is in front of commercial courts. And what we're doing, here in our previous sessions, we've been arguing unfortunately and they've been passed by laws that have been abolished by commercial courts. And now this reform is showing efficiency and one contribution to economic recovery. Therefore, the largely this strategy, which has been called "the strategy of judicial reform", was now much better, and in this sense should be one upgrade with concrete things, to point out in particular now, continues, or very similar to the famous programme, the government's economic recovery programme. So, general places and nothing new. The Law on the Procedural Procedure, which was adopted in 2003, which was changed on two occasions in terms of the effectiveness and discipline of all participants in the proceedings, starting with the parties but also from the judge, to whom a leading role was given in terms of party discipline and increased discipline in the proceedings. All available means have been given to the judge to discipline the parties in the procedure so that they can comply with the deadlines within which the court is obliged to make a decision, to write a decision and most importantly to send it to the parties, let's be realistic about the litigation procedure in this regard and that is the most painful point for the citizens. The debate is concluded, however, there is no decision, and the finalisation of the debate must take place in the most minor cases, and must be sent to the parties within the legal time limit. That's not the way it is. It's the same for the occasion. Namely, where's the performance fastest? It is fastest for citizens who have remained in debt to banks, to some other financial institutions, but why it is fast and efficient. Fast and effective is justice for those poor, and that is when it is due, when they act as debtors. These same people, therefore, generally promotes the public, when it comes to the role of the believers, the procedure remains expensive and lasting for him. Why is the execution in this first sense quick and effective? Because the government allowed them, our laws allowed them not to see the court and the executive procedure at all. They are used by fiduciary means and for the smallest debt they remain without their valuable properties. Special agencies have also been established, and such a procedure has allowed many families to be seduced in black today. And that's something that we, as a country that has to pass fair laws, which is defined by the Constitution as a social country, must take into account, and that is one of the greatest injustices. On the other hand, when a worker asks for his salary, his salary, which is usually miserable and barely enough for the minimum costs of his or her own family, is often thrown out of the question that he must withdraw in court. On several occasions we have proposed and this would be a significant social step and a step forward of fundamental justice to protect in our society the weakest, to protect the worker, that the worker can't after having done months, sometimes and years of looking for his deserved salary and being thrown out of a long-term litigation and trial. Unfortunately, on many occasions these legal proposals were rejected, and we also had the law in 2003 in that famous report of the Penal Code, and I would say, under the name of a shameful reluctance, that a frequent amendment to the Penal Code would endanger legal certainty. Now we see that it wasn't just written. Legal security? But whose legal certainty? Those economics who also threaten the law and pay all the government and workers who are thus placed in an unbalanced position and according to their fellow craftsmen and other owners. So I don't see any payouts to the worker that he's here not what the government is still worried about. So what we can conclude again is nothing new but that old definition, that justice for the poor still remains slow, almost inaccessible, and the judiciary seems to be working at two speeds. When they are privileged according to all the basics of the law itself, when they address the court and seek some of their rights that are rarely violated by them, because they can hardly be violated by anyone in their power working at all speeds. In the first time they are but at the last speed when these rights and that justice should be brought and executed according to those weakest. Here's the SDP club thinks that in this act which thus has a pompous name, the Justice Reform Strategy, that what has been done in detail is that it is essentially one basis and an analysis of what might serve which are our neural points of justice and that it is true that we have defined them and focused on them. I think they'd be much more effective that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65307	Thank you. The club of IDS representatives and Mr. Representative Damir Cain is at work. Here you go. Before that notice to the Committee on Economy, I apologize. He was called in 10 o'clock this morning, tomorrow he will be at the "Janka Draskovica" hall at 8.30 p.m., the chairman of the board, Dragan Kovacevic, informs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65308	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Representatives. This is the strategy we adopt after the escape of the former prime minister or to be more precise, after the police let him escape from Croatia. With that thesis I think both the public and the waist, a good part of the repressive apparatus. But why do I mention Sanader? What does he have to do with this strategy? I say big. How big? So here's to quote page 1 here, and then I quote, "The reform of the judiciary started in January 2006 by adopting a Justice Reform Strategy." Who was the prime minister? Then it is further cited on the same side "with the aim of further speeding up judicial reform in 2008 the revised action plan". Who was the prime minister? It is further said, I quote "The issues of the fight against corruption have been raised in view of a separate anti-corruption strategy with a corresponding action plan". Who was the prime minister? It is then said, "In May 2010, the action plan was revised because 90% of the measures were met." It's a done quote. Why am I saying that now? To reject that thesis or better to defend the thesis, who let whom escape. Why? Maybe to help him. How? He will return to Croatia, it is absolutely not controversial, quickly. But Sanader's trial will only be open to those requests from that extradition procedure. There's no more charming, so nothing else. The FIMA Media and HEP remain. No Gifts, no Brodosplits, no highway building harmony, INA-E. Just FIMA Media and HEP. ... We're not the DA's office. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now. We're a council. But why am I saying that, Mr. President? Let's just let someone get away or they won't stop. Why am I even saying that? What does Sanader have to do with strategy anyway? Well, because there's been a controversy in the public over the review of parliamentary immunity. Now that could already be part of this strategy. That immunity I claim, gentlemen, isn't really worth a piss. I also claim that the Parliament was absolutely wrong on Thursday. Ideally it was done, faster it actually couldn't. But let's just say HRT sues me because I told this speaker that almost every show on HRT can be bought, so where some immunity can protect someone. Who has abused him so far? I only know two, the Head and former Prime Minister. But where's the problem now? Look out, gentlemen, and page 41 lists the institutions involved in this reform. And then I quote "that the institution is included in this reform are the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice clearly, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the courts, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, the State Judicial Council, the State's Attorney's Council, the Judicial Academy, the Croatian Bar Association, and other participants. I think that here gentlemen should include the MUP, why the MUP, because they're part of the criminal repression in that broad sense of that word and because so far, right in front of their noses or before they're being charged abroad, they've run away somewhere to their brother's 30 capital, so I don't name them here right now. What this means is that from the system the information, that the system is ugly, that justice in Croatia is exclusively reserved for the poor. True, the Remetinec was trafficked in 2010, but let's let go of the powerful verdicts now, there are clearly no convictions, and for some judgments, I'm afraid the Constitutional Court also stands in the reserve. Speaking of these strategies, the first thing I want to say is, a lot of these shows so that someone from the I don't know which institutions, the DORH, the police, or I don't know, always informs the press just before the "incarceration" or entering someone's building. If that's politics, then let's let go of the worry that the DORH is burdening himself or I don't know who and introduce that fine principle, let's write it down. I've said at least a hundred times when it comes to acting, and I think I share 100% of the opinion of most of this House or almost everyone, that everyone can make a mistake but steal simply can't, that everyone can't make a mistake, but they can't please their own, because then if that's not the case, then they'll come out, to the truth of that Hebrang when they say so, and by that logic almost every single one of us will end up in Remetic the next day. If that were the case, then each and every one of us would be a representative, and I'm not talking about the people of the executive government, not talking about judges or even a good part of the state's attorneys, the police, etc. Because they're wrong, too. A number of court cases have denied him some of the indictments and thus similarly or disputed the superior courts of the lower courts. So we should all sort of end up in jail. If someone assesses political decisions tomorrow, no one in this country will deal with politics anymore. We're really going to get a dictatorship. If someone stole it, if someone used it, then give them a shadow cover to put it that way. If he guessed to burn it himself at the stake, if he knowingly did harm to the community then cut it apart as a loser here not far from this assembly. It is clear that in 2010, no one will burn or suppress his seed, but it is also necessary to talk about it, clear individuals tend to do so, eliminate them from politics, even through the form of clearly closed institutions. The fact that someone also claims that the judiciary and others are, say, depolitised in the Republic of Croatia, so that doesn't exactly fit the truth. Let's just say that in Istria it's normal for cops to hold party conferences, it's going to be less and less, maybe it won't be any more, or what's been done seven or eight years ago and a newspaper from the State's Attorney's Office. It's also my hope that it won't be like that anymore. But this is that the police, the judiciary in Croatia, are still not in the function of politics, about it at some other time. But when I'm on the takeover, it means responsibility, to the judiciary, or to the attorney's office, for example. would the fact that Mercep was walking on the loose, and here among other things is a war crime, page 24 further, mean whether someone should answer, I say. And the people of power and the people of the police and the people of the system. For example. Whether someone should at least be ashamed of that case in Sisak or not, I don't know about letting the Rabbit family killer go free, etc., etc. These are gentlemen of mistakes and independent justice and independent police and independent "politicals". Why did this happen, because both the police and the judiciary have been up to us all this time, because it was subject to a political dictatorship because not someone after all would probably not have walked on the loose for 20 years. On the side of gentlemen 41, it is said, among other things, what has been the achievements so far in judicial reform. So the first independence of the judiciary, the impartiality of the judiciary, I quote, professionalism, efficiency, free legal aid, prison system and probation, war crimes proceedings. And I don't agree that freedom has been granted to the State's Attorney's Office for the departure of the former prime minister and the arrival of his chosen one. No, the state's attorney's office was granted the freedom for the arrival of Josipovic, for the clear and departure of Sanader, for listening to the DORH that a new government was coming in a year and, among other things, a complete crisis. 102 thousand jobs have been lost in a year and a half and normally, because of this social collapse so let's find a few culprits, but there's a fact that some new times have come when there's a little more courage to talk about it. To go back to that and why Croatia is collapsing. Because of the global crisis, because of this undermining of institutions through this thieving, through conversion, okay, but here I also see that no one from the '90s will normally be sanctioned, I doubt it, perhaps failed, and we have a change of the Constitution that was spoken of by the minister and the provisions on the review of privatisation, etc., etc. Croatian gentlemen are collapsing and therefore, at this point in the country, none of the executives want to sign any contract because they are all afraid that tomorrow someone from the DORH, USKOK, will not matter, the judiciary, the police will knock on their door. There's not a single investment, and I'm saying that the gentlemen should let people work, and if they steal, then, like I said, wipe out their seeds. I've been in the Parliament for a long time, but this is the kind of psychosis I would say untrustedly not to say fear in both the opposition and the position, so the ruling ones. There was no time when it came before January 3rd to change power. They're all less afraid to be tapped. Everyone's afraid for themselves. Well, isn't it enough to say if that's true I don't know that Mr. Shakespeare from his office took his and Polance's phone to another room. If Mr. Shakespeare doesn't have a fear for your cell phone if someone's listening to him, it has something to do with this Justice Strategy. So what if the others in this House told me. Let's not just play games. It's one climate that's bad and it just needs to start changing. Is that what this Strategy is about? So by abuse, I'm going to tell this judicial system in the broadest sense of the word. Is what I know I'm not talking about, maybe because of some political decisions, you should answer. Well, almost every political decision. But gentlemen, if someone hasn't gotten used to it, let's not just do it. I wanted to say something, but I don't want anyone to start yelling at me. To conclude, it is clear that we welcome this last case from Thursday and the Mercep case. We hope that won't stop there, that this ulcer must simply be opened when it comes to this war crime. And last we read Wikilix, not WikiLeaks, but this one in Croatian in the paper. I'm not against the minister of justice, that the Prime Minister, the Parliament, is talking to the American ambassador and saying what will be done. It's absolutely not a dispute, but I doubt it's their job to have any state attorney hodogram the work of an American ambassador. That's not what gentlemen are doing, or the state's attorney went to the U.S. Embassy for evidence that preceded the former prime minister's shift. And if that's the case, then that's fine. I've also voted for the State's Attorney's Report. We've also voted normally for the so far '96 strategies, eight, two thousand six, two thousand eight, etc. We'll support this one, too. But knowing how it took place in the judiciary, I suspect an independent Croatian judiciary. Of course, for that independence, gentlemen should fight. But that independence must also be based on unambiguous norms, not on cases to cases being handled differently by the people who are in power. I would hate for the judiciary to be used for inter-party reckonings, so that it is governed by politics as it has acted until the 1990s or by two thousandths or to this day anyway. And don't beat anyone up on that Tito or that Josipovic guy. Everyone deserves a fair trial. All in all, I hope it will be better and we accept the Strategy for Justice Reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65309	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First is Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Cain, you have agreed on who is responsible for the release under the allegations of the judiciary, whether the departure of Ivo Sanader or the arrival of President Josipovic. I think that you and I and we all know together here that this is a positive dictatorship of the European Union and Chapter 23. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65311	Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65312	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Cain made countless false allegations. I especially have one stuck to my ear, which is that Croatia is collapsing. That's incorrect. Croatia regularly pays salaries and pensions, has a high quality health system, GDP grows slightly thank God, and investments also go where. But they're also going. So, absolutely not your quote. You give lessons to everyone and everyone from the judiciary to the DORH and follow who goes where he goes and where he moves. And you didn't mention in any word the Sljivancan these days, which was reduced by ten years, and the wounded, the sick, the maimed, the murdered, etc. You didn't say a single word. And then, and then I can't remember how you'd let it go. Don't give God to the DORH if you'd come for the president of the state. And with us, there's a saying in my neighborhood saying, "Don't worry, wake up." They don't even vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65313	Thank you. It was slightly extended to Sljivancan, and it was not mentioned, although it may have been mentioned more. But there you go. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65314	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of a new strategic document on judicial reform. Namely, the reform of the judiciary, and as one of the key components of the government programme and in 2003 and 2007 and 2009 followed by a strategic document and action plans, began with strategic documents indeed in January 2006. But I agree with some and with what is said here that this strategic document in 2006 did not start from scratch either. Therefore, he also relied on a series of measures that had been adopted until then, laws that were implemented, but the adoption of this Strategy in January 2006 was, in fact, formally designed, united with the accompanying action plan, which was then obtained in one place and by the concrete holders and the necessary means for the implementation and implementation of the deadlines. The action plan adopted by the Justice Strategy as a government action plan is a more dynamic document, a plan document than the Strategy itself and was revised in June 2008 and submitted as a criterion for opening chapters and establishing negotiating positions in section 23 relating to the judiciary. This action plan of June had around 80 measures, and since they were systematically implemented in May 2010, the action plan was re-audited with the envisaged implementation measures by 2012, for the reason that it had been consumed almost entirely. Today we are discussing a new strategic document on judicial reform for the period 2011 to 2015. In June of this year, at a conference on Croatia's accession to the European Union, the European Union has confirmed and established the efforts and measures made by Croatia to implement the June 2008 action plan, but has also identified the need to update it, as well as to update the justice system reform strategy. It also stressed and accepted the view that measures should be identified, i.e. indicators of the determination of the results of the effectiveness of the implementation and strategy and of the action plans under the strategy, as well as the provision of sufficient institutional capacity for the management of reforms, with particular emphasis on the supervision of the implementation of the laws adopted, and in this respect is also praised by the reshuffle of the Ministry of Justice, and the provision of sufficient capacity in the strategic department of the Ministry of Justice. The strategy that lies before us today has installed all these views and with a number of, as far as I have been able to count, 47 guidelines through 5 thematic areas have outlined the direction of further action activities to achieve the strategic objective, which is the highest, to achieve the highest European standards in independence, impartiality, expertise and efficiency of the judiciary, and with regard to the system of enforcement of criminal sanctions. I would simply say that the aim of the judiciary is to trust and respect it, even when the word will not go to their advantage, and which will be the judiciary that will be available to all under equal conditions. The current, current and 2008 action plan included 7 thematic units of judicial independence, impartiality, professionalism and expertise, efficiency, free legal assistance, prison system and probation, and war crimes proceedings. These thematic units were developed in 175 measures, which, as we said, were all almost 90% and implemented, and a revised action plan was adopted in 2010 which has 53 measures. It should be said that the action plan, which is in line with the current strategy, is also in line with, therefore, a new strategy proposal, so it does not need to be changed because it will fully fit. Of course, the implementation of all these measures is not the purpose itself, but is the purpose of achieving finally, or as close as possible, to the end of the strategic goal. It is doubtless that the implementation of strategic documents, strategic documents and action plans has made progress, that criteria and principles have been established and that no one can go back, so if anyone might want to, because such a social climate and such social consciousness have been created, and that it cannot go back from it, and it is also visible and measurable results. In these measurable results, I primarily think of those finally measurable, that citizens also notice and feel, and that is, above all, a reduction of the remaining cases, and a perception of the duration of the procedure, of the time of the trial within a reasonable period of time. We have heard in detail from the minister what has been achieved so far, that I do not repeat from legislative activity to concrete measurable results, because the citizen is ultimately not interested in whether we have fully implemented any law until the end or not, we can even boast about it by passing and implementing the law, but if that law, its implementation does not have an effect on that ultimate goal, and that is that the citizen has an unbiased and effective judiciary within a reasonable period, then it means that this is not the result. What I would leave behind to consider from this data here, I have noticed the fine results of reducing the total number of items left behind, by 50, and more than 50%, but what I notice is that of the total backlogs in 2009 or it was a mistake, or it was matured for one good analysis, so of 795 thousand of these items, that there were 158 thousand in civil cases where the percentage was reduced by 40%, and in criminal 9,000 cases, and then the question in which, which is this rest of the cases, were those infringements, administrative cases, or where they were then and where they could go, which measures could be taken in order to reduce them. So, as we have already mentioned in this past period, a series of laws have been passed, we have heard all of this in detail from Mr. Minister, so procedural, material, organisational, from the domain of the Justice Organization, the Law on Courts, the State Judicial Council, the Law on Attorneyship, administrative disputes, the Criminal Law, and I would say that the crown and the legislatives are actually constitutional changes which then made possible further changes to the law, all in order and in order to strengthen the independent, completely independent position of the judiciary. This new strategy, now proposed, is somewhat different from that of the thematic whole, so through independence, impartiality, the expertise of the judiciary, where 8 guidelines are covered, the effectiveness of the judiciary with 25 guidelines as the most comprehensive chapter of this strategy, of course includes a series of measures both technical and organisational, but I would also say the subjective to the trial. The third thematic area of the Croatian judiciary as part of the European judiciary with 4 guidelines. It is good that this thematic area has been introduced because Croatia really needs to prepare itself to enter the EU's single legal space. Chapter, i.e. thematic whole of access to the judiciary with 3 guidelines and criminal legislation and a system of enforcement of criminal sanctions with 7 guidelines. In this part of the first thematic area - independence, impartiality and expertise of the judiciary we note that this is mainly about the continuation of measures, i.e. the implementation of all laws adopted to ensure this area of independence, independence and expertise. So, it will be followed to just systematically monitor their implementation. In the second thematic area – the efficiency of the judiciary, there are also a number of measures of continuity, but what is interesting, so here we are reading some new ideas that have been discussed here and there, but here they are now also drawn by this strategic document to analyze. Therefore, this is an analysis of the possibilities and needs of the introduction of appeal courts, an analysis of the possibility of reforming jurisdiction and the organisation of criminal courts and proceedings. It has already been said and we do notice this, and compared to what I said to those thousands of other cases that really analyse the inflow of cases into courts and whether it is really necessary for all these cases to be burdened with the judicial system or could be effectively resolved in any other procedure. Also, here is the first time a reform of the work trial is mentioned. There were ideas mentioned several times about the establishment of special courts. I don't think there should be another special court to establish this, but certainly within the framework of first-degree courts, by setting up specialised departments if such an analysis is done, I think it could lead to what we want, which is that work disputes are resolved quickly and efficiently. In this field of efficiency, the judiciary is also an interesting provision drawn up by this strategic document, which is a review of the role of advisers and the use of other court employees and the dissuasion of judicial officials from performing these tasks that others can carry out. Also, as I said this whole, the thematic whole, the preparation of Croatia for the European legal space and what I am estimating at the end, and I think it is particularly important in this strategy, which is that each section, each of these thematic units ultimately has one paragraph, one section that speaks as indicators of the success of the implementation of these guidelines and the measure will be determined by which we will then say whether it was effective or not. Here, I would suggest here, I'm reading these performance indicators in the efficiency of the judiciary, of course here is information and infrastructure and equipment all that's important for efficiency, but let's say as performance indicators, so it's said that the amount of investment will be valorised, the number of units, the regulation of infrastructure, the data on the savings achieved, etc. In my view, however, this does not matter at all, but this indent is important, and it is the number of resolved and pending cases with special representations of old cases by segments in the judiciary, data on the average duration of the proceedings by segments. That's what the citizens will feel. They don't care if it's a building or if it's not a building. They care if it's an object. Perception of professional and other public, performance of performance, success of forced collection, number of established infringements of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. These are real indicators, and I think if we get that in the Justice Department's analysis, then we'll really see if this strategy and the accompanying documents have achieved their purpose. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports this strategic document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65315	Thank you. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's how nice and proud the Justice Reform Strategy sounds for the period 2011 to 2015. Here, my predecessor, Honorable colleague Lovrin, said that the aim is therefore citizens' trust, so the goal of this strategy is to implement a strategy is to trust citizens in courts. So I wonder, in reverse, was there any mistrust in the courts of these 20 years of the Croatian state? Well, actually, the answer is yes, and wherever you come from very often, we have as representatives of citizens' issues about it, which results in both mistrust and doubt, to say the least, in the independence of the judiciary. The implementation of the judicial reform began either in the SDP's mandate, as Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic said, or later in this term of HDZ and its coalition partners, so given the efficiency of the courts and, therefore, the way the courts work, I also appointed the minister of justice to the former, so to Mr Simonovic, the question I asked the MP in which I asked to answer how much money did it lose due to the compensation of the costs incurred by giving the case to another court? So by dislocation of cases within the Republic of Croatia between municipal and other courts. The answer was yes, the written answer, and here I am told that in 2008 and in part 2009 until 20 October that this cost totalled 700 thousand kuna or about 100,000 euros. Furthermore, I asked a second question, and it said, "How much does the Republic pay the applicants for protection of the right to trial within a reasonable time?" So, due to a delay in court rulings and court papers. The answer was that, and here it is, that 40 million kuna was paid in 2008 and in part 2009. Furthermore, I asked how much the Republic of Croatia lost money, i.e. how much compensation was awarded and paid under the European Court of Human Rights rulings in Strasbourg, from 2006 to 2008 and October 2009, a total of 531 thousand euros or around 4 million kuna were paid. The European Court of Human Rights shall decide on a friendly solution of the case between the State and the applicant, and on the basis of which the State has paid 576 thousand 400 euros, totalling the first sentence when it is not settled on a friendly basis, shall be sentenced by the court in Strasbourg 8 million kuna for citizens' claims against the Republic of Croatia. In total, on these three grounds, compensation for the damage caused by the judiciary is paid 50 million kuna. Those are facts, and we've been implementing that first justice strategy since 2004 as it says in the material here. And with the aim of judicial independence, the impartiality of the judiciary, professionalism, the expertise of the judiciary, the efficiency of the judiciary, free legal aid, the prison system and the procedures for war crimes. Without this strategy that contitiated son qua non and contitio written by wolf, therefore with "C" not with "t", interesting material once the judiciary worked exclusively in Latin and spoke with Latin, unfortunately today we have a wolf's spelling in material submitted by the Ministry of Justice. So, in this strategy, which has been implemented as I said and to which the Ministry of Justice, Croatian taxpayers paid 50 million damages due to ineffectiveness, for impartiality, for lack of work, for inquality, etc. And now we're bringing in a new strategy. Furthermore, what are the courts of the Republic of Croatia that actually look at indirect or deeper analysis into the foundations of the statehood of the Croatian state? If they write in their rulings that in Croatia during the year 91 and even in part 92, there was a civil war, not Serbia-Montenegro's aggression on the Republic of Croatia. There are gentlemen, the excerpts from the ruling of the County Court of Zagreb and the Supreme Court of Croatia that just prove someone's guilt, which annulled our decision by the Croatian Parliament that the Croatian state was created on 25 June 91st. Which annul the decision of the late President Tudjman on the formation of the Croatian Army on 28 May, therefore, that Kranjcevic stadium, when the day of Croatian armed forces and the Croatian Land Army is celebrated. What kind of courts are these, gentlemen? Who do not recognize the Declaration of the Homeland War of the Republic of Croatia, and no one here is talking about it. And we're conducting a judicial reform. There's a lot to reform. A lot more, especially in the human sense. Because of the 42 judges of the Supreme Court, 41 is elected judge in that former system, then I suppose no wonder the verdicts of this kind have been made, only one judge is chosen for judge, I do not say Supreme, Judge in independent and free Croatia. What is this court declaring, the Yugoslav People's Army, to the only regular units until October 8th, 91. It's in your judgment. So Savo Stbac rubs his hands, it was not the court in Belgrade or Banja Luka but Zagreb. The capital of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia's metropolis. We are now going to talk a little bit about the content of this new strategy, the follow-up to the strategy that Mrs Antičević-Marinović spoke about, as a matter of fact, by substantiating the data that were actually, or by expanding a little strategy of the one that was in force until 2011, so we are now going to 2015 for the accession of the European Union. Is that what we're thinking of joining 2015. If so, either this reform or the strategy should be implemented by 2013, and some have spoken much earlier, and obviously they have lost it or, unfortunately, it has failed. It's said in 2012, so it's all been delayed in 2009, when we were promised by a gentleman who is now in Salzburg in prison or in Vienna, excuse me. The state attorneys of the Republic of Croatia, the efficiency of the courts, I guess that includes the State's attorneys of the Republic of Croatia. Is it possible that the State's attorneys and ultimately the repressive apparatus and the police, when the whole people, citizens, speak loudly and clearly about all the misdemeanors of the ruling party, that they are silent and do nothing, now says Sanader is in jail and says now we will. Why is there a State's Attorney's Office? After all, not only that, but also the whistlers who had the courage to inform what they had tipped off, they were killed, they were led by procedures, they lost jobs, we have an example of a customs whistle in the Slavonski ship managed by Mr. Barisic, the lady lost her job, she has nothing to feed her children. Is it also the task of the State Attorney's Office and the Croatian judiciary to punish whistles. Is this a strategy of the Republic of Croatia in the judiciary. So there was a certain mildly expressed inertness, but inertity that was conditioned by politics. And we can't say that there was no impartiality and we can't say that there's no political involvement in the judiciary, when we all know that's not true, we all know that's not the case. Once we experience that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have confidence in their judiciary, especially in the part of labour rights. They're totally powerless and say when they're running a dispute with employers and any work dispute "When you're being sued, Kadiya sues you," "Who's making those quacks stronger" and clearly losing their disputes. In that segment, I really think that she has spoken enough and colleague Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic, so I would not repeat myself. Furthermore, the State Judiciary Council is also under discussion on the State Judicial Council and says, it independently decides on the appointment, promotion, transfer, resolution and strict responsibility of judges and court presidents. Will this be done and done in the same way by the State Judiciary Council as the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which I have presented the fact and the fact that from 42 from the former system is 41 judges appointed in the former Supreme Court Judge system. If that's how it works, then we'll have no strategy, Mr. Minister. Due to all this data that I have provided, the HDSSB will not accept the proposal of the Justice Reform Strategy for the period 2011 to 2015. I just wanted to point out that in this system, judges who mentioned the Supreme Court, many of them tried people who sang Mariana, Mariana with the clerofastic so-called. the characteristics and texts that judged the people who had wrongly looked at the picture of Comrade Tito or who threatened the brotherhood and unity and judged the people, they are also presently in the judicial system, the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia. The man is learning while he is alive, and the judiciary is being reformed in progress, but I expected and wanted, and I hope Mr. Minister that you, too, must speed up the process, because Croatia is still convinced that it will not be adopted in 2015 but rather something earlier, so if the judicial reform ended earlier, it would be much better for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When I've still got a little time, let me tell you about the folk about the garter and the e-executors, believe me, Mr. Minister, I won't name the granite. You'll remember what it might be, that when you look for property over certain plots, because I wanted to check how someone got to 200 heches of land, and in the e-execution it says, the owner is unknown. You've got it all you want. So that's the kind of thing you have as much as you want. And we know that land books are being edited, not only to check who owns it and how well it is confirmed and to see the extent of the border and the surface, but soon when we come to the EU that Europeans, rich Europeans can also look for our poor peasants to buy agricultural land and real estate for others in the area of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why the land books are being edited and there's an e-mail excerpt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65317	Thank you. At 11.21, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. HNS Representatives' Club, HSU's Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This Justice Reform Strategy is different and must be different from all of us so far. Because so far, we are in different strategies, action plans and different such documents that we have adopted, we must firstly concentrate that the laws that need to be amended and, in general, to establish models that would ensure assumptions, to start building on an independent and functioning judiciary policy. In the meantime, we've done a lot of work. And there is no doubt that we have done it with the help of the negotiations on Chapter 23, but that is why we have decided that it is useful for us to go to the EU, because we are getting a framework that enables us or pressures us to those who do not seem like a chance for us in the HSN and HSU club certainly seems like a great and significant opportunity that we have received and taken advantage of. And that is to change the legislation that regulates and applies to the judiciary, namely in the first place the choice of the State Judicial Council, and then clearly defined ways of receiving new people in the profession both in the judiciary and in the state's attorney's office, and the progress of people within the profession. So, all the things that seemed really meaningful to the names recently are on paper, now they're in the laws. And that is why this strategy does not primarily have the task of talking about the laws to be amended, but in the opinion of us at the HNS Club, HSU is its main task of implementation. Implementation and control of the implementation. So, as what he's literally writing now, and it hasn't written his hand to the heart for a long time, but now he's literally writing in the laws, how we're going to make sure that it's actually being implemented and implemented in the way that it's written and implemented immediately. So he starts spending time. Let me remind you once again, our deadline for the election of the new State Judgment Council, and from there begins the realisation of the whole new model according to new rules and the new law is January next year, so about a month from today. And if we don't do it in a month, as of January next year, we will close this chapter not because of the European Union but because of us here in Croatia and in the Croatian Parliament. And then we won't get a positive report 11. March when it's made public, and it says, it ends in February 2011 and then we don't do the whole job until 6:00. The month of course is bad for the country, for all of us, the whole job as far as the European Union is concerned, but I would say that is a minor problem. It's bad for the realization of a model that has a chance of being the basis for building an independent judiciary, and that means bad for all the people in this country. Therefore, this strategy as its main task must have the implementation and the way in which it will be controlled and whether what is written in the laws is implemented. Accordingly, I will make several remarks and warnings here, so I ask that the minister, or his associates, check them or comment or respond to what is happening, that is, that many of these things have already been done, but we have no information. The first remark that may sound technical refers to the compliance of the rules that we have voted here in the House for the conduct and decisions of the State Judicial Council and the State-law Council. We at the club have to say we're not quite sure whether the procedure in the laws is consistent with how the selection of candidates is done by the State Judiciary Council, that's certainly defined. But whether this is fully in line with the criteria for the State's Attorney's Council, especially when it comes to the selection and appointment of new state attorneys. Therefore, we simply ask that you tell us now if you know, if not to check that compliance. Another element that we think is important since we said that the implementation check is crucial. In this strategy here, or the proposal for a justice reform strategy, we are talking about a professional body formed by the ministry, which will monitor the implementation and results of the changes that we have made here. And we think it's certainly good and useful and necessary and whatever you want. But we are proposing to the ministry to consider one idea or one proposal that we think might be long-term useful and long-term, which is because it is really a model that we have designed and which, in our opinion, is useful, usable, which has the chance to change something, which has also caused interests in the member states of the European Union, and not just for our neighbours to whom we have given this model, to establish a long-term long-term project. They may be students of law schools in the Republic of Croatia or may be members of this state judicial school. It's better because it kind of includes a wider population and maybe it motivates young lawyers to...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65319	My colleagues, please don't have a loud discussion from the bench. Comrade Jurjevic, my colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65320	So we suggest that you consider the possibility of launching a long-term project among the students of the final years of law schools in Croatia to monitor the realization of this model, in other words the implementation of these laws in practice. This would, of course, provide students with insight and useful insight into the functioning of the system, but in which they potentially enter as professionals for a few years, but would ensure one another, another kind of control mechanism for the implementation of such a system. We suggest this because we think it's a really useful and quality model, however, which will be completely groundless if it is not continuous and as designed. The release of a long-term project by professors, but conducted by students of law schools, the release of such a kind of long-term participation or observation, so to speak, the realization of such a model, we believe, guarantees a permanent vitality of that control, hence permanent transparency, constant public exposure and in this case the student expert public, but nevertheless, the public eye of the way in which this whole model is conducted. One such follow-up project has its own educational value, therefore the educational value in one quality model, but in our opinion it can also potentially contribute to a truly successful and sustainable implementation to the extent that such a student monitoring project can carry out a lasting, sustainable, up-to-date and accurate implementation of this model and what is written in the laws. The third thing that we think would be good to highlight in this strategy, although of course there is this in the laws, but it would be good to stress in the Strategy is that the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council in their decisions on the appointment of new people entering the profession and on the advancement of people within the profession are obliged to follow the ranking lists that are drawn up on the basis of the criteria defined in the law. So when it comes to entering the profession 100 points test, 30 points average score, 20 points interview. All posted on the Internet with a total number of points and points per criterion. If this is stated in the law, it should be clear that these bodies are obliged to follow that ranking list. But we believe that it does not say explicitly in the law that they are mandatory, that in this Strategy they should be entered into that these bodies are mandatory. In other words, when there is a one-ranking list drawn up by these criteria that are written in the law, then the first person on the ranking list when the first court seat is opened has the advantage. And only if that person does not want to accept that job for any reason does the next person on the list have the right to do that job. In other words, there is no possibility of arbitration after a ranking list of decisions has been established for any other reasons or criteria that are not first. The first must always be the first to take precedence in the creation of a new job. And we think it would be good in this strategy to introduce it. There's a question. In the law of the State Judicial Council, no one can be elected twice to the State Judicial Council. It should be clarified whether this applies to the current members of the State Judicial Council or to members of the State Judicial Council who will be elected under the new law, so in January of the following year. One more. Something that could be addressed by this Strategy is the issue of representation of members of national minorities in the judiciary and in the judicial authorities. You know that's something we've defined as a country, something to do, and besides that, it's also a criterion for Chapter 23. So, something that's a prerequisite for closing chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. Here in the Strategy, I see nothing about it and we could not establish it, and we think it would be good to have something in this Strategy to say about how this criterion will be met, that is, how representation will be achieved, the appropriate representation of members of national minorities in the judiciary, which perhaps of all public, all state affairs most important of all. Finally, this strategy is a framework for an already existing action plan. So in this case it went a little bit the other way around. Instead of the strategy being adopted first, the Action Plan was then adopted in the realisation and the Strategy was adopted at the beginning of the year, i.e. in the Spring and the Strategy has now been adopted. That's why we warn of a few illogicalities. The action plan says that by the end of 2016, a prison with detention will be built for 1230 seats by the end of 2016. The strategy says that the prison in Sibenik will have 600 seats, and the strategy is until 2015 Another example where numbers are illogical and should be coordinated simply by the Action Plan and the Strategy. [[Intruder Shakespeare: Please conclude.]] In addition to these remarks, we will support the Strategy, but we really think it would be important to address these issues that I raised on behalf of the HNS and HSU clubs here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65321	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65322	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Before I begin my debate on the proposal for a Justice Reform Strategy for 2011-2015, I would like to remind myself that the reform of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia began in 2006 by adopting a basic document of the Justice Reform Strategy with clear objectives of the reform, while activities, deadlines and holders are contained in the action plan. The action plan was revised twice in 2008 and 2010 for the period 2010, i.e. how the measures were met and the action plan was revised. Starting from the fact that we have significantly amended the constitutional and legislative framework with the reform of the judiciary, we want to meet the most European standards regarding impartiality, independence and the effectiveness of the judiciary, that we want to meet the necessary criteria for closing Chapter 23. – The judiciary and fundamental human rights are clear why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has opted for a new document. The strategy connects all reform participants starting with the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the State Attorney's Office, the State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Council, the Judicial Academy, the Croatian Bar Association, the Croatian Public Note Chamber, other institutions and the public in accordance with their constitutional and legal provisions. It should be pointed out that the current course of judicial reform, given the fact that measures are also envisaged by the current action plan in much of what has been implemented, deserves an assessment of success. In the area of judicial independence, the process of appointing and assessing the work of judicial officials has been significantly improved, newspapers have been introduced in selecting trainees and passing judicial exams. A newspaper was introduced in part of the members of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council. In the area of impartiality, codes of judicial and legal ethics have been adopted, the obligation of judicial officials to submit the property report is prescribed. In the area of professionalism and expertise, the central place has a Judicial Academy. In the area of judicial efficiency, major shifts are seen in the reduction of the number of pending cases, rationalisation of the network of courts, changes in procedural laws, reforms in administrative trials, reforms in the executive procedure. A system of free legal assistance has been established to ensure the right to access the court. The prison system has strengthened both the legal and institutional framework, the Prosecution Act was passed. In view of the proposed strategy, the Republic of Croatia wants to complete its reform activities in the area of the judiciary and to achieve the most European standards in such a way that the strategy defines the main themes. Connecting the independence, impartiality and expertise of the judiciary as a single whole, 8 guidelines are set in the direction of their further strengthening. In the area of judicial efficiency as the most demanding area, it is proposed to complete rationalisation, improve system efficiency through 9 strategic guidelines. Guidelines in the area of reduction of pending cases, infrastructure, information are also operationally elaborated. The strategy sets out guidelines for creating the necessary conditions for the successful functioning of our judiciary within the European Union, which are primarily based on the education of judicial staff. Access to justice requires further strengthening of the system of free legal aid, reforming criminal law in the period until 2015 are the primary tasks of adopting a new Penal Code, full implementation of the Law on Criminal Procedure, establishment of probation and others. I would like to point out, given the importance of the judiciary on the way to the European Union, that I will personally support the proposed judicial reform strategy for the period 2010 to 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65323	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65324	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the ministry. So here is the proposal for a reform strategy of the judiciary for the period 2011 to 2015 which is ahead of us, first of all I would like to remind and emphasise that a more significant reform of the judicial system has begun, so as has already been said in discussions in January 2006 when the Croatian Parliament adopted a judicial reform strategy on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with an action plan. The action plan was first revised in May 2008 and again in May this year. This strategy identified priority areas of action with the definition of concrete measures to be implemented through the short, medium and long term, and measures aimed at strengthening the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, on professionalism and expertise, and on the effectiveness of the judiciary through system rationalisation, on reducing the number of pending cases, on reducing the duration of judicial proceedings and at encouraging alternative dispute resolution, on improving the system of free legal assistance, on improving the prison and probation system, so on, etc. The revised 2008 Action Plan was aimed at further speeding up judicial reform, relying on recommendations contained in the screening report for Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights, as well as recommendations from the European Commission's annual reports on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the accession process of the European Union and the accession partnership. The action plan revised this year specified the remaining measures to be taken in this final phase of the negotiations for membership in the European Union, and in this context, constitutional changes were therefore adopted in June of this year, and in recent months a number of other laws in the field of justice, so those necessary for the conclusion of the negotiations. I therefore believe and believe that I already share, the opinion of the majority of us in the House, that, from the beginning of the reform of the judiciary to the present day, great progress has been made, above all, in creating a legislative and institutional framework for an independent, impartial, professional and effective judiciary, and I think that this undoubtedly contributes to the rule of law and legal certainty of citizens, as well as to developing judicial cooperation with other Member States of the European Union in criminal and civil matters. As regards this new justice reform strategy, for the period 2011 to 2015 ahead, it is important to say that it continues and represents a certain continuity in relation to the current strategy, but also stems from the fact that the Republic of Croatia will soon become a full member of the European Union, and in that sense, the intended objective of this reform of the judiciary is defined. This objective is, I will quote it from the text of the strategy, so it is the highest European standards in terms of independence, impartiality, expertise, the effectiveness of the judiciary, as well as with respect to the criminal sanctions system, the judiciary which, as such, justifies the trust of citizens and the entire society, whose progress is available to all without distinction, based on the principle and transparency of the rule of law, and which is fully qualified for action within the European Union. So this quote actually contains all the main specifics and thematics that were elaborated precisely in the text of the strategy, and has been discussed so far, especially by the minister, and has explained each and every one of them further, so I will not look back at them. I just want to point out, because I think it is a good thing that future reform plans of the judiciary are foreseen, that they are made for each year, based on the analysis achieved in the previous period, with the definition of concrete measures and activities, timetables, competent institutions, financial resources and performance indicators. So the strategy, as it is said, envisions the adoption of the first action plan for 2012, which will continue on the current action plan, which is therefore revised this year, which is currently being implemented. Since this strategy is therefore another important step towards strengthening independence, impartiality and the efficiency of the judiciary, I absolutely support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65325	Thank you. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65326	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here at the outset, of course, I will say that this justice reform strategy, which includes 20011 by 2015, absolutely needs to be substantiated, because it represents one strategic document within which everything positive within the framework of the action plans will certainly happen, in the context of the functioning of the judiciary, which should be as such positive that all the reform processes that have already started and, in some part, implemented, in terms of the functioning of the Croatian judiciary, so that these, in the right way, are rounded up, or brought to an end. From the very strategy as a document is visible, and we have seen this from some discussions of distinguished parliamentary deputies, the fundamental circular problem that we stress in all of our discussions when we are therefore discussing the judiciary, especially the reform of the judiciary. Therefore, the main problem burdening the judiciary stems from a large number of pending cases and the length of the court proceedings. And let me stay here for a moment in terms of the comments or assessments that we have had in today's debate in relation to the current situation or how it is today and how it was backwards 3, 4, 5 years and even more because given what has been realized in this segment, I have been given reviews that are not based on facts. In fact, they are not based on facts because in this area and in this segment an extremely large and quality step has been made. Here it is, huge progress has been made in this area, which is primarily reflected in the reduction of the number of pending cases. Why don't you point that out to this occasion? So, when you positively show up and in this strategy. The total number of pending cases in all courts, see now that time gap, on 31 December 2004, was a million and 640 thousand 365 cases. So in 2004, a million and 640 thousand items. And on 31 December 2009, 795 722. So it shows a reduction of 51.49%. And this should be added, so special efforts or special efforts were directed towards so-called. in the old cases, these are cases that are older than 3 years where the number of citizens' old unsolved cases in the period from 31 December 2007 to 31 December 2009 has been reduced from 149 thousand to 84 thousand. So 43.56%, and the fines from 9 grand 275 to 3 thousand 667, or over 60%. I think that should have been emphasized because indeed all the efforts that were made in this most sensitive part in terms of the functioning of the judiciary resulted in concrete data, and then we had some analysis here if we still did the exact analysis that the objects that were unsolved are coming up with even better indicators. Why not emphasize something that was positive, which is absolutely positive and of course it was done by the foundation of all those efforts that this High House has made. And he did it by passing appropriate laws and those strategies from 2006. We also had the opportunity to hear the assessment that this parliamentary normative part was actually almost completely over. Why don't you point that out? So, at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Resorship Ministry, the Croatian Parliament almost brought a completely normative framework or legal basis, and, of course, a constitutional basis in the 6th month of this year, so that all of this could not only be implemented but all of these problems that have been accumulated in the judiciary for many years to be resolved and resolved. And in this sense, we need to look at this strategy and this law that comes to the plenary session in terms of debate and after, so under point 2, and all that we have done throughout this period of time, not only in this term, but also as parliamentary representatives and as Parliament to create both the constitutional and normative framework, a quality and the right framework, so that all these positive shifts can happen. There are difficulties and none of them escape, but it is precisely the basis that these difficulties, and everything seen in terms of functioning, regardless of which segment of the judiciary we are considering, are therefore created the basis, is done almost everything in the normative and constitutional sense that the judiciary is precisely in this period of time, therefore not only because of Chapter 23, which will surely be, if it continues with such dynamics and bring and implement these strategic things in which we have determined to be final in terms of, concluded as regards the very segment of the judiciary. So, it seems to me that these things are too little to emphasize that come from the concrete facts and indicators that we find in this strategy. I think we should stress them further. Furthermore, this strategy actually provides for 3 key bodies or bodies that are designed here to control the overall process of these reforms or how it happens in real life or to implement certain things that we now mean under the reform of the judiciary. Thus, regardless of the normative activity or anything else that improves justice. The key body or key role is precisely this advice that we talked about from this scheme in the report itself or in the strategy itself. 13. In fact, you can see clearly who will do all this advice that will carry out not only counselling, but perhaps a bit of a control role in the sense of the implementation of all these things that we are talking about. And there are all the institutions, so from the Croatian Parliament, the Supreme Court, the State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Council, the Croatian Public Recording Chamber, the Bar and I recognize in some discussions and ideas, which I personally support, to supplement this. That is, here are the representatives of the judicial institutions. Which is why we would not be in a direct or indirect way within the framework of this council, members of the academic community are represented, while, first of all, I am thinking of law schools, those branches of rights that are directly involved in the implementation of the judicial reform itself. Not to say civil law, criminal law, criminal law and other powers. Well, I think that's a good idea to work out. We're talking about a strategy, so we're talking about a single strategic document. Here, I suggest that the proposings think about that possibility as well. I think it would be a good model in which more, not only as regards the public of work but the quality and expertise of the work of the council, which will therefore advise who, the department, a special department within the Ministry of Justice, in order to certainly contribute to the additional quality of that body which is well-conceived and well-imagined in terms of functioning, not only within the framework of the strategy but in terms of all these reform processes that we are talking about. Here, colleagues and colleagues so much about strategy. With full support during a very sensitive period of time, it means a four-year period, I think it is absolutely necessary to support as well as all the other quality regulations that we have had to discuss and adopt not so long ago, and we will have opportunities for some more in the field of justice in this sense full of support to you personally ministers and of course also to the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65327	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65328	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The theme of the Justice Reform Strategy is, in fact, likely today in public today, causing the association to reform or moral renovation, the moral renewal of Croatian society. Why? Because unfortunately, according to the perception of an average citizen, the area of justice is right next to some other areas, the area most affected by corrupt activities, whether it's true or not, but the fact that the citizens of the judiciary are experiencing it in such a way and it's bad. They also experience politics of course, and even worse, they experience that the judiciary was a political servant during a long period of time. So that politics is in the worst possible way in one concept, which is everything but democratic, therefore, that politics, and when we talk politics, we always think of a certain number of people where it is concentrated on the highest power of justice. So I think that the basic task of every strategy, the reform of the judiciary is precisely to break such perception and to the citizens, and it will be able to demonstrate or break down only if it is shown in practice that it is not true. Unfortunately, the worst thing that can happen to a society, and I think that we chronically suffer from it is that its laws, that the laws of that society do not correspond to social practice. This means that too often in the laws it writes what is not being implemented in practice, so we have one discrepancy between what is guaranteed in our laws, starting with the Constitution as a supreme law, and beyond, from how we live as a specific person in a society. This means that every citizen of his kind is a homo duplex, a double personality, an abstract citizen is all recognised, all guaranteed to him, from the right to work, etc., to fair society, to equality, and in a concrete life where we exist not as abstraction as concrete persons we often deny. This dissension brings society into a schizophrenic situation so that the whole society de facto becomes neurotic for a reason and, normally, it can be born with such situations. So the worst thing would be if we tried to re-create from the law as there were... villages, if the laws were just facades, only a cover behind which there is no possibility of realising what they say then we're in trouble again. Which brings the most people into a state, sometimes almost desperate, before the inability to change anything in society. So I would just remind myself of what was going on around the Salonite, so the company that you all know about, the firm from Vranjic, that we don't mention asbestos, is best known, but it is also known that the man who made the privatisation, suspected of sucking out huge funds, escaped from the country of Croatia and as a fugitive, filed charges against people who were prosecuted in Croatia or brought to justice, even by force, and he could do so in the shade of refugee and escape from Croatian laws. It was only recently issued that warrant, etc., and other things that were needed to be made far earlier, but it is truly incomprehensible that someone who escapes from Croatian laws has at all the right to have someone, me, any of you, who is being sued, and that I do not know what norms come out of it. It's hard for people to understand, we can interpret them in a way that I don't know what the essence of law is, but it's hard for them to understand. It's hard for them to understand when a member of the Salonita Supervisory Board was also accused that he had so much to do with sucking money out of that unfortunate company where so many people died of asbestos, which was destroyed. So, when a procedure is launched that it falls into obsolescence because no hearing has been called in in four years. It is difficult to convince an average citizen that there are no powerful levers, sprawls, political authorities, tycoons, criminals, corrupt activities and immorality. It is difficult, we must be aware of this and we must speak openly here and do everything in the Supreme Legislative Body in which, unfortunately, deep down at this time, it is important, which is one danger to me that prevails over Croatia, the institutions of Croatian society should be defended if we want to preserve democracy because we will open the door to the wish of authoritarian authorities. Do not think that there is no such possibility, and some cite water to such a mill that says only a firm hand, authoritarian authority, suspension of what smells like this "trust" democratic concept is a prerequisite for finally achieving justice. So I have to say that I'm putting down and destroying the reputation of Parliamentarians and that it can be very bad for this society, but most of the policy is on its own for what's going on. Because we must look more radically for answers to this and deal more radically with those among us who give for the right to such thinking. The Brodosplit affair is good that the State's Attorney's Office took steps, but for the first time in 20 years, the State's Attorney's Office had to take steps without waiting for the result of the investigative actions that the Split-Dalmatia Police Administration had to do, which repeatedly claimed there was all right, even before the investigation ended. That investigation is never over as far as the police are concerned. Their spokesman said there were no illegal stores while the investigation was still ongoing. The state's attorney's office is running a procedure and says publicly, we don't trust the police, that segment, that part or the specific people in the police, some people. ...we can never go globally normally that these are people who work honorably, 90% of them or 99.9% doesn't matter. You see, when such things happen, someone thinks that the police who did the investigation have obstructed the investigation. These are things that have to change. And these are the things that must be subject to then, so to speak, the part of the functioning of the judiciary that will not allow it to happen again. Can't one roast or catching a man because of a roast be a symbol of fighting corruption in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65329	Thank you. Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65330	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So here's this strategy, as my colleague said in front of me, our citizens are actually expecting a single moral renewal, because we are all witnessing the discrimination of law enforcement and law, which is why, of course, more law enforcement is expected. From previous discussions we also heard about the selection of candidates and I would like to say a few words about it. Namely, the appointment of new candidates should be subject to the ranking of lists on the basis of the criteria laid down in the law. However, it is true that a score procedure is being conducted according to established criteria, but the State Judicial Council elected a judge of the High Court of Commerce at a session held on 9 December 2010. So much for fighting. So what's the point of the score when the points aren't a criterion for selecting a judge? And just before, Mrs Pusic said that it should be put into this strategy or more clearly into the law. Mrs Lovrin also said that the crown change or adoption of the Constitution in June 2010 has changed to allow for further amendments to the law. The constitution was changed then and it allowed members of the State Judicial Council to be elected by the judges themselves. However, the members of the State Judicial Council have not yet been elected by judges. Here we hear it's also a January 2011 deadline. A review of the achievements achieved so far in the reform suggests that the positive effects of rationalisation are visible. However, I do not see an analysis of the effectiveness of the rationalisation carried out, so I can also say that the above conclusions are questionable, they have no basis. It is also mentioned that the information system that says you are very proud, however, it is visible from the judiciary that work on cases has slowed down to 30 to 40 percent. Why? Because it's all paper and computer. It means whether this program is adequate and huge money has been invested. I can say that this e-record essentially reduced the efficiency of the judiciary rather than increased it. One of the objectives of the strategy, or efficiency and rationalisation of the judiciary, is of course an alternative way of resolving disputes, but it has not recovered. Now does that mean that the Law of Peace is not good or that something needs to be changed? Because in Croatia, all disputes end before the court, which has led to the increasing constriction of the work of the judiciary. In fact, highly educated officials usually handle public service subscriptions, telephone services, etc. So some kind of procedure shouldn't come at all but go to rest. The brakes in the judicial reform are certainly as strong as the legal lobby where there is no change in the legal tariff. Therefore, our objectives are equal to all of us, our desired goals are common to all but I am not an expert in the judiciary but I can say that such an incomplete and superficial reform of the judiciary will certainly not achieve a common goal in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65331	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Leco is on the board, so he's gone. And the final minister of justice, Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65332	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank everyone who discussed the strategy, and in the debate, we have heard indeed a whole series of opinions. The strategy is one indicative planning document for the next period so that from these discussions everything that is useful we will also be in the action plan and in the implementation of the reform that we will include. It is finally said here that our reform is not complete and superficial. I will not agree with that precisely because the reform is true, strong, because in the past we have changed a whole series of very important laws and I would say that we have entered very deeply into these processes. That is why today I think we also have a positive opinion from the European Commission that assesses the situation in the judiciary significantly better than it was before. Of course, it is important for us to primarily build our own judicial system in which we will not have a large number of pending cases, in which we will not wait for a verdict longer than that reasonable period of three years. That's our primary goal. All of what we're doing today, all of these reforms we're doing, all of the laws we've passed so far go right for it, but nothing happens overnight, especially in this complex sector, and it takes time. It is also necessary in the judiciary where problems have actually accumulated for years and cannot be solved in such a short time. I have to say, here was the debate of a lot of words about numbers, 700 thousand unsolved items, not all unsolved items where the three-year period passed when we count it to be some kind of reasonable time limit in which the case needs to be solved. Such items are more than 100 thousand, but our goal is to clean all of this up and to make sure that proper application of the procedural laws that are in force no longer occurs and do not create. For indeed, it is now necessary to gain the trust of the citizens, and there is no better way than that of the cases that are in court each one is a special, and possibly a life story. Each of these items carries a certain right behind it, a certain interest, a particular protection is sought and there is no better way than to have it resolved in a short, one-time period that actually satisfys the citizens. There was talk here about us making this strategy without consulting the profession, not consulting anyone, that's not true either. We have been working in cooperation with all interested judicial institutions, both the Supreme Court and the Attorney's Office and the Note Chamber and the Bar. In fact, we all asked for suggestions before we even started working for them to deliver their own proposals for their visions, their visions of reform. So there is, of course, a founding and advice from the Ministry of Justice which consists of representatives of both the Supreme Court and the State Attorney's Office and the State Judicial Council and the Council of Law and the Note Chamber and the Bar and we have discussed, of course, the advice of this strategy. The strategy got a positive opinion and after that we let it in the process. The strategy, as I said, is a slightly more peaceful document than it was a 2006 strategy. Why, because we no longer expect so many radical changes, so many laws that we have to change, and that's why I said it was a strategy of continuity, a continuation of reforms and a strategy of implementing these laws that we have passed. A whole series of questions related to the new State Judiciary Council were also asked. It has been said here that we have not yet established a new State Judgment Council. I here have to make a statement from this pay phone to actually acknowledge the current State Judicial Council, which has done a large part of the work in this new composition because it is for the first time implementing the appointment of judges by a different model than it was now. It is also a transparent way of checking knowledge, where points are obtained and by rank the judges and state lawyers are named. So full recognition of both the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council. They have also developed a new methodology for assessing judges and state lawyers who are much more transparent, which is much more complex and much more objectively giving reviews for the work of our judicial officials. Of many more elements is composed, many more elements are actually pricked. And especially why we haven't been able to get into this process of electing a new State Judicial Council because the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council are choosing and they are conducting the procedure for enrollment of the first generation of members of the State School and it is ongoing. When this is over then we go to the elections and within the legal deadline we will have a new State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council with that indeed these have done and done great work for those who will come after. If there is compliance with the rules relating to the conduct of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council, there is. When we were doing the laws, we saw that the procedure was balanced and that it was equal. Also, as to whether the State Judiciary Council and the Council of Lawyers are obliged to adhere to the results obtained by the score, of course they are, because the goal was precisely that the one who got the less points could not come to the place of the one who got more points. And our entire concept of State School for Judicial Officials is based on it. Whoever finishes tomorrow's national school and is first on the rankings will actually be able to choose the one that suits him the most. That's what I think best actually is the best proof that we want to value success, that we want to value quality. As regards retroactivity in the membership of DSV and DOV, it is that those who were members of the DSV in an earlier period and the State Attorney's Council will, in our opinion, act in the future. If we are now to those who were once members of the State Judicial Council or a lawyer, if we interpret the law that they do not have the right to run and to be elected, it would mean one retroactive application of the law, and so crucially because we have changed the way we choose that everyone has the right to run, and all judges and state lawyers ultimately choose and vote. It's really one principle that's maximum open. Everyone has equal chances, and we believe that within the profession, those who are the most professional will come to the surface, who enjoy the greatest reputation. As for the case, counterpart Jurjevic said that there was a need to build a system of justice that would not be infected by corruption or by political maids, I think all of this is what we've been doing in the last few years that's exactly on that trail. To that end, we want an independent judiciary, we want a professional judiciary, an effective judiciary, and it seems to me that we know the paths, that we know the directions, and that the point of application is, and this strategy is right behind it. Continuity strategy, implementation strategy, but also further development in all the liquids and good solutions that exist in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65333	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. As we have announced here today we will vote on the closed points of the agenda and conclude a regular session, the 20th session of the Croatian Parliament, so please before we go to the vote that, to check whether we have a quorum, please engage. The result? 88. Well, according to my free judgment, there's more of us, but here's the quorum, so let's start with the vote. I am going first to the proposal for a Justice Reform Strategy for the period 2011 to 2015. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the draft Justice Reform Strategy for the period 2011 to 2015. Please, let's get involved and vote. I'm asking for a result. This strategy of judicial reform for the mentioned period was adopted by the majority of votes, 108 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65336	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us the Law on the procedure of confiscation of property benefits achieved by criminal act and violation. The confiscation of the property benefit of a criminal offence and a violation is an extremely important measure expressing the principle that no one should retain the property benefit that he has achieved by committing a criminal or criminal offence. It has significant effects on the prevention of criminal offences, especially those involved in organised crime and corruption. This Act particularly regulates the procedure for the determination of the property benefit achieved by the criminal offence, the process of ensuring the confiscation of the property benefit achieved by the criminal act, the procedure for the enforcement procedure, the decision to confiscation of the property benefit achieved by the criminal offence, the treatment of the property seized and the property on which the temporary confiscation measure is laid down, and the jurisdiction and authority of the management body for the confiscated property, the exercise of the rights of persons damaged by the criminal offence and the protection of the rights of third parties. This Law also regulates enforcement, decisions by foreign judicial authorities. The present situation is such that the provisions on the confiscation of property benefit in the applicable legislation are found in a number of different laws primarily in the Criminal Procedure Act, the USKOK Act, the Criminal Law and the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, and the law seeks to confiscate the property benefit achieved by criminal acts and to regulate the infringement by simple, transparent and complete provisions in this legislation. This Law is a lex specialis for the process of confiscation of property benefits achieved by criminal and criminal acts. It prescribes that the decision to confiscate is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the court. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Penal Code and 76. Violent law. The confiscation of the property benefit of a criminal offence is a subsidiary property-law requirement, i.e. It shall be taken into account if, or in the part in which the defector has not made an asset-legal request. The process of confiscation of property benefits may be conducted by law both before and after the end of the criminal proceedings. Here is the important newspaper that we have not had in the past, according to the existing provisions of material and procedural legislation. That this law also provides for an order of conduct where there is no appropriate criminal decision because the prosecution could not or cannot be carried out because there are circumstances that exclude prosecution. This is a very important novelty introduced by this Law. According to the law, a proposal to determine the initiation of a criminal offence may be submitted until the expiry of the time-limit of antiquity of criminal proceedings but the limitation cannot take place before the expiry of a five-year period counting from the date on which the offence was committed. Furthermore, the provisions of the laws governing the confiscation of property benefit procedure prescribe the conduct in the event of termination of criminal proceedings, the opening of bankruptcy proceedings for a legal person, and the delivery of data relevant for the determination of the facts necessary for the decision-making of the law by the state authorities, banks and other legal and natural persons. So, if the defendant happens to die in the course of the criminal proceedings, then it is not an obstacle to the process of confiscation of the property benefit being continued. It's also a very significant novelty. It has been established that the procedure for insurance under the Law assumes the existence of a danger that the request of the Republic of Croatia for the confiscation of the property benefit achieved by the criminal offence will not be possible or that its achievement will be difficult if the temporary measure is not determined. This is also an important provision that increases the effectiveness of the conduct of this law. Provisional security may take up to 60 days after the court has notified the applicant that the verdict has become a power of power. The Republic of Croatia shall be responsible for the damage resulting from the temporary measure in order to ensure the confiscation of the property benefit resulting from a criminal offence and, if the proposal for a provisional measure has been submitted by the defendant as a prosecutor or a private prosecutor for damage resulting from the interim measure, by the damage or by the private prosecutor. Such a measure would be determined if the defendant suffered any damage to that effect, if, of course, it were shown in the process that the prosecution had ended without a positive result, then he would have the right to compensation for the damage. In order to confiscate the property benefit of a criminal offence on a proposal by the Prosecutor, the Office shall be determined and implemented under a special law if the law is not otherwise prescribed. The property over which a temporary insurance measure has been established is being handled by the Central State Office for the Management of State Property. The Office may, without prior publication of a public tender under certain conditions, take a decision on the sale of temporarily withdrawn mobile items or rights, and may also decide to suspend or sublet things in accordance with their purpose. This is very important because this Law sets out therefore a state body that will deal with the management of things taken away that we do not have so clearly prescribed today. It'll be the Central State Property Management Office. And here we give him through this law and the powers actually to act faster, for example if a truck is seized by some corrupt goods, a certain amount that can be broken down or where costs are extremely expensive, keeping it possible then to sell it, save money as money tomorrow for compensation damage. Or if the assessment is to blame for the damages to whoever was taken from her. Therefore, the law also regulates the enforcement of decisions by foreign judicial authorities by applying a special law, the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, from the date of entry into force of the Republic of Croatia into the membership of the European Union. Compared to the first reading, the law did not experience any significant changes, and in its most basic solutions in its concept it remained the same, except that we believed it according to the proposals, remarks that we had betterly arranged it and that it was now better than it was in the first reading. We propose, since this is an extremely important law, a law offering tools and weapons to combat corruption, organised crime, which offers a whole series of new solutions, we suggest you accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65337	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. Loses the right club to argue. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's Madam Representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65338	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. And today I'm going to repeat the sentence I said when I first read it. Namely, this is another law from a set of laws that we have on the agenda today, and after which we can loudly and with pleasure say finally, we finally have a law on the process of confiscation of property benefit achieved by criminal act and violation. It gives us a law that fully implements the principle that no one can acquire or retain property obtained by criminal acts and violations. One part of the law takes over existing provisions from other laws, and the other largely builds on the area of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by criminal acts and systematises the whole process of processing, confiscation and management of those assets. Since the law went to a second reading, we are pleased that the motioner has complied with some of the proposals and remarks from the first reading, in terms of precision of certain provisions or statements of provisions. In this regard, it is good that in this final bill, for example, Article 34 and its paragraphs 2 and 3 have been better resolved. All the details and extremely important facts of this law we heard in the opening presentation of Mr. Minister, I will not waste my time on it, he is much more professional, much more qualitatively explained than I would have done. I will just mention that the implementation of this law requires the provision of funding in the state budget for the need of the Central State Office for the management of state property, and we heard about it, so for 2011, 408 thousand 561 kuna is foreseen, for 2012 as much. It further notes that there is the possibility to seek additional financial resources to cover costs, such as costs of storage of equipment and facilities, and the cost of maintenance of real estate and movables, which can of course not be planned at this time, since it is not possible to predict the volume, or the amount of property achieved by criminal act and violation. And in the end, I'm going to say that the HNS club, HSU, will be happy to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65339	Thank you very much. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic, on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65340	Thank you, Mr. President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of the Act on the seizing of property benefit proceedings carried out by criminal acts and infringements. We only remember when we said on behalf of the club that we needed a special law in order to maintain the fundamental principle that has always been true in our legal system, more specifically in criminal law, that no one can keep the property benefit acquired by the criminal act taken away. However, given the new conditions of market business, that confiscation of property benefits does not only mean confiscation of funds and executions, but that, unfortunately, in the modern way of management, very subtle and sophisticated forms of acquisition and that criminal acquisition of property benefit, which has been difficult to detect in the course of these crimes, and unfortunately our judiciary and today, it is hard to face this type of crime. The improvements in this regard have been visible for the past year. Unfortunately from the moment of discovery, the procession for committing criminal acts that illegally acquired the property benefit has been spent a long time, and that asset benefit often changes its forms, from factories, from shares, from private property, it is clear to everyone. As a result, the current system without a specific law, so without implementing that basic principle in our criminal law, is constantly prescribed by the amendment and addition of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Criminal Code, that no one, therefore, is able to obtain, or retain, such property benefit. In order for that principle not to remain a dead letter on paper, here we have finally welcomed this final bill. However, what today is missing, and what is not in this Law on the Abuse of Assets, which is hardly possible for such a law to foresee, but can be predicted by other laws, i.e. more effective application of the laws that we have passed, but also by updating our registers. Mostly persons who commit crimes that gain enormous property benefits, and who are hard to deal with because they are organised and linked to politics. Such persons generally only have a small part in their name and the names of the persons associated. Most of the assets are not registered to them at all or to their loved ones or to persons whom public persecution bodies or our financial bodies may identify. But that's why we can prevent these cases. Nowhere in the world is it possible for someone to start a company that then buys huge properties without having one or no employees, or only has a secretary and a ficus. Or it's the office of that firm that operates enormously somewhere in the den that every better decorated garage looks like that. And that's what happens with us. But, of course, there must be an Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which ex offo, not according to any reports or doubts, but had to check that company whose core capital is the one that provides for the Company Act as a minimum. Such companies are usually only set up for a particular business, for the purchase of real estate. Publicity is widely known as founders, i.e. who owns the company, but state persecution authorities cannot handle it. But the Ministry can't just do that. So, the rights of reform and the true reform of the judiciary, we are going back to the one here already inaugurated definition, especially in this segment of countering the most dangerous type of criminality of organised crime that robs state, social property, or property that belongs to all citizens, is possible and starts at the Ministry of Finance and Special Institutions. Our land books today are not arranged, although the e-book is being introduced, you have there the latest entries that are 50 and 100 years old. Therefore, as long as there is no obligation for the property to be entered or to lose the right, that is, the legal basis for the acquisition of ownership rights in the land book will not be achieved much. Or an alternative way that the land book can not be the basis of acquisition but rather, not the basis of acquisition, but the existence of any right of ownership and other real rights, but that it becomes already an act of law enforcement, either for charge or for no charge. So, what's a deficit state and what's still a helmet with hard-core criminals, the biggest criminals often portrayed in public as respected people, cannot identify their assets. Unfortunately, the state is still in trouble to identify its own assets, and where else it will identify the assets of criminals. So, by supporting all of this, as stated in this proposal for the law, we draw serious attention to this lack that, in this sense, certain irregularities in the laws governing the conduct of certain bodies, and that this law would indeed come to life and that it would get its full application and as one of the best preventive measures in countering and corruption and organised crime, we must make changes in this regard that I have just stated. Therefore, it is not only the work of the Justice Department but also other resolutions, because once again we will have, when this bill is applied, an amazing situation that despite public opinion, public surveillance and talking about huge assets when there is first freezing, and later confiscation of property use of such a processed person, there will be only one part of their property, and then the public will not really perceive it as our real and persistent struggle to deal with criminals, with organized groups, and the best method is when they know they will remain, and it will certainly remain without their property. And they're still laughing because they know well that the state doesn't know who their property is registered to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65341	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65342	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the proposal of the Law on the process of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by criminal acts and violations, and it seems to me that this law will be supported by consensus here in the Croatian Parliament. Of course, because I believe that there is no one who would not pass this law which in one place clearly and concisely determines the procedure of determining, confiscation of property benefit to all those who have committed a crime. Therefore, it is a fundamental postulate of criminal law that no one can retain and benefit from what he has acquired by criminal acts. On the other hand, crimes of corruption and organised crime and crimes of benefit, property crimes have their own and the only rites to get their hands on property in an illegal manner. If we have an effective way of taking away their property, of course the main race of committing crimes will fall away. Because they often endure punishment, and then they enjoy the well-being of that property. What I want to say is that by adopting this law in Croatia, of course, it will not be the first time either again or again or using the confiscation, the Institute for the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts, here is the newspaper that we introduce and obtained by violation. As we know on two occasions, we changed the Penal Code which extended this confiscation, and equally in the provisions of the USKOK Act, there was a whole chapter that spoke of the confiscation of property benefits and what is important about the seizure, i.e. the blocking of that property before the verdict and during the conduct of the proceedings. It may well be mentioned that according to USKOK data, about 57 million kuna has been taken up so far, but also significant assets have been frozen during the duration and conduct of the process we have no data on, but there are certainly even greater amounts. The amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure therefore extended the possibility of confiscation to that property because until then it was possible to confiscate property acquired by a criminal offence, which was found to have been subject to a certain criminal act which had been ordered by that particular property, that was quite difficult to prove, it was also a problem if the property had been acquired by someone third, or by one of the families, by amending that provision of the law, therefore, a burden of evidence has been introduced to say so to the perpetrator, that if he can't do the likely origin of his property, then all his property is considered to have been acquired by a criminal act. Similarly, it is a certain circle of relations that, if the property is taken away from them, unless they can prove in which way it is acquired from third parties, unless it is acquired in good faith. But what's good about what's happening with this law is that the whole process of determining, ensuring enforcement, dealing with seizing property, and the property in relation to which a temporary measure is laid down, is determined by one single law in one place. This law also lays down in one place records of this property and the management of such property, and then we heard that funds in the state budget were provided for the implementation of this Act, but I would say that this implementation of this Act must be financed by itself. Because this property will, if it is an effective law, become the property of the Republic of Croatia, and it will certainly benefit the state, or what will be returned, greater than the cost of implementing the law. It is also important that this procedure can be conducted before and after the criminal proceedings are concluded, but more importantly that it can be conducted if it is suspended for the reasons provided for in the criminal law if the perpetrator has been suspended or the perpetrator has died, that this process of confiscation of property obtained by criminal acts should it be established that that property is either stolen or damaged or obtained, that it may be... in relation to the heirs or those in whom the property is located if, for some reason, the proceedings have been suspended because of the procedural incompetence of any kind. Here, all these are newspapers, this law of course we support, some more precise provisions compared to the first reading are entered into the Final Text of the Law, some are not, we can now argue that perhaps the text of the Law could suffer even more improvements but this Law is important to us, we are copying it to be passed, so we will see when application takes place, if it is the occasion, then in some future changes and we will sort it out and here, in that sense, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65343	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, Mr. Dragutin Lesar is first in line. He's gone. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, also no. Mr. Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65344	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the secretary of state with a colleague. In our second reading, the Act on the seizing of property benefits achieved by criminal acts and offences and proposed more precisely and simply, in one whole way, to determine the process of confiscation of property or property benefit. It should be said that the procedure has so far been regulated through several regulations, through certain provisions of the law on criminal proceedings, the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, then through provisions of the Criminal Law and the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. Therefore, this law lays down the determination, insurance of confiscation, management and confiscation of property committed by criminal offence and violation. In relation to first reading, as said, a number of nomotechnical improvements have been made, the adoption of individual amendments to committees and committee clubs, which more clearly and more precisely define the text of the law itself. In so far’s legal decisions, so also in this law, the confiscation of property benefits rests on the principle that no one can gain or retain the property benefit that he illegally obtained, i.e. which he has achieved by committing a criminal offence and violation. The important starting point and the newspaper of this Act is that confiscation of property benefits is not sanctions, it is not a security measure or an ex-legisle as a legal consequence of a person. The property benefit would be deducted on the basis of a court ruling, with the provision of a criminal offence sufficient to carry out an illegal act regardless of the illegality and guilt itself. So it could be done before, during and after the criminal proceedings are over. One of the important elements of this Act is that the decision to determine and confiscate property benefits is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the court, and the court would make it either on a proposal from the Prosecutor or on official duty. We also find it important that in the process of establishing and confiscating property use, this law provides for the protection of the rights of the person whose property is being treated, but also the rights of the injured persons as well as the rights of third parties. Since much is said that this is a second reading, in the end I will only say that this Act on the seizing of property benefits is extremely important because the measure, the institution of confiscation of illegally acquired property benefits, has a certain preventive character. This preventive character is manifested through a message to the potential perpetrator that such an illegal act will not be worth it, i.e. that they will not be able to enjoy the fruits of illegally acquired property. For these reasons, and for reasons of this law, domestic legislation is harmonised with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. with the International Treaties binding on the Republic of Croatia, I will support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65345	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65346	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So confiscation of the property benefit acquired by a criminal or criminal part is one of the most effective measures in the fight against corruption. It's a clear fight against criminals and corruption crime that will run out of everything they illegally acquired and will still be sanctioned legally. By establishing the property value, it can be determined for each person whether its property is fair and legal, honest work and wages or through corruption, abuse of function, theft in any way it has been carried out. Corruption does not know the party colors, does not know the regionality or religious, or family or any other, it is simply to the person or her morals will or will not abuse the opportunity and get into trouble in the area of corruption, immorality, etc. This government has proposed, and the Croatian Parliament has accepted that there is no obsolescence or privatisation in which individuals have been illegally and immorally enriched while many citizens have fought for home, for their country, for their jobs without which many have remained through just privatisation corruption. The fact is that the Corruption Prevention Strategy was adopted on 19 June 2008 although it could have been brought much earlier, while the SDP was at the head of the government, while it created power, led the government, etc. Why not? It's a question that could be speculated on. Mrs. Kosor presented the government's anti-corruption campaign to the public in early June 2009. "Corruption is not me," and invited all citizens to oppose and report every form of corruption. The most important fact is that the Government, led by Mrs Kosor, has very clearly defined itself as a compromise with corruption. I launched an anti-corruption campaign the moment a new legal framework was created. It is a great shame at all levels for Croatia and for the citizens that we have not yet defined ourselves for such an anti-corruption fight, so I will say again in 2003. It would then be able to prevent many corruption affairs, as well as the resulting damages. Although corruption was a serious problem for Croatia and during the time of the government, it is best reported that in 2001 the Republic of Croatia was 47th in the list of corruption of 91 countries. But then apparently, the government at the time led by the SDP to deal with corruption has not defined itself, while today individuals are amazed at corruption, are amazed at the privatisation robbery but will not miss the opportunity not to try to score for their party and to portray it virginally fair, regardless of how the sparrows are cricketing that there are individuals in their ranks who are not party to corruption. So it is my impression that certain parties do not sincerely care about the fight against corruption but how they will point at this particular corruption with their cheap political hens I would call it and deceive the public that it is they who are the most honest. If they want to be politically responsible for voters and citizens, then I call on all other parties in Croatia to open their windows in the party and to provide a wind to corruption that is certainly present and not foreign to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65347	Thank you. Mr. Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65348	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are discussing the Final Proposal of the Law on the seizing of property benefit procedure achieved by the criminal act and the violation proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is also one of the laws that our legislation complies with EU legislation. It is important to point out that this legislative proposal regulates the confiscation of property benefit by criminal act and violation, as so far the legal solutions are contained in several regulations, starting with the Criminal Procedure Act, the USKOK Act, the Criminal Law, the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. With this proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes it clear and unequivocal that there is no effective fight against crime and corruption unless effective mechanisms are established to take advantage of the criminal offence. This legislative proposal is an important weapon in implementing measures and actions to combat corruption and crime. It should welcome the proposed solution that the procedure under the provisions of this law can be conducted before, during and after the criminal proceedings are completed. The Central State Office for the Management of State Property is a central body that manages confiscated funds, rights and things. The final proposal of the Law on the confiscation of the property benefit achieved by a criminal offence and infringement differs in some solutions to the bill. I believe that by accepting some amendments to a more precise definition and nomotechnical improvement of the text, the proponent removed some doubts and overall improved the law. On the basis of this, I support the adoption of the Act on the seizing of property benefit by criminal act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65349	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65350	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm excited to vote for this law. I think he's really needed. Well, it kind of comes at the right time. Resolved freedom, jail time for criminals is certainly important. And it's part of the general prevention, it poses one threat to society, don't steal because you're gonna end up in jail. But the possibility of retaining illegally acquired assets reduces this general prevention significantly. Because he allows a criminal to count, well, I'm gonna do time in prison, I'm gonna hold on to my legal punishment, but when I get out, I'm gonna have a fortune, me and my kids. This law is the possibility of a dodgy. So he completely discourages potential criminals from entering crime for material gain. The motive of committing corruption is just an asset benefit. People enter the system of corruption to achieve some material benefit, to come up with some money they didn't deserve and didn't earn. The threat that that money will be taken away from them is an effective threat, the best threat, I believe more effective than a suspended prison sentence. Corruption can certainly be an individual act, but it can also be a system. General crime can be individual, can be organized. When he's organized and becomes a system, he's also the most dangerous. No individual criminal can do as much harm and harm to society as he can when he's networked, when he's organized, and especially when he enters the tops of power, when he achieves a grip with power then he becomes the most dangerous. Why is it the most dangerous, because it's the hardest thing to fight against him? The government seeks to protect itself, has this instinct of self-preservation, tends not to reveal such acts, to conceal them, to make investigations difficult, to delay them, to prepare for these investigations for years, if necessary, to go out of date and to forget. I didn't mean to talk really about parties here, I thought I'd stick to this legislative proposal, but the next part of the presentation was encouraged by my colleague Kunst who introduced the parties into his debate. Indeed, when corruption enters political parties, especially political parties currently acting in power, then it does not only harm, material damage to society, not only disappears huge amounts of money, there is also a social evil that is impossible to measure by material measure. There is a collapse, a loss of trust in state institutions. And then the danger of chaos, of social chaos is unusually great. What happens these days and finds out, what we read about on the cover, what the media is reporting globally is doubt, it seems very well founded that it happened in Croatia. There is not only shame in Croatia, but a lack of confidence in politics as an honest activity. This loss of confidence in politics as an honest activity, as a work for the general good in the interests of all citizens, represents the immaterial damage, the great damage such corruption affairs cause. I think that the most important articles of the 11th, 12th and that are still talking about ensuring the confiscation of property use, perhaps the most important part of this law, because they allow these assets to be blocked even before the criminal proceedings are started. Of course, that's unusually important, the first-stage decision is made by the judge of the investigation. It is unusually important that the possibility of blocking property so as not to alienate itself, so that it would not be transferred to some third parties and that the meaning of criminal proceedings and the punishment of such a corrupt crime would disappear if there were a suspect or person against whom an investigation or some investigative action was conducted, if it were allowed to hide that property in any way. So that blocking before criminal proceedings is unusually important. It is also important that this blocking may apply not only to the person against whom the criminal proceedings are being carried out or against whom the criminal proceedings are being prepared but also to all those to whom he could possibly transfer that property or on whose behalf and for whose account the illegal property was acquired. So when my colleague Kunst was already talking about parties, and I didn't mean to talk about it, if we have a reasonable suspicion that the head of one party was alienating huge assets in corruption affairs for not only his own purposes but also members of his party and that party as a legal person, then it would be necessary to block not only his assets but also the property of that party. Because there is a possibility that it will be poured out, hidden, and that we will actually acknowledge the consequences or legalize the adverse consequences of a crime. As far as I know, this has not happened in Croatia, despite reasonable doubts. On Friday, we will vote this law, it will come into force, all legal preconditions will be created to finally do so in Croatia. It will restore some trust, a completely lost trust in the institutions of the system. Here are these remarks, with this commendation of this legislative proposal because nothing else can be said about it but praises, with the hope that it will not be a dead letter on paper, that ever since we adopt it it will start to apply in all its aspects and equally to all and to political parties, I will be delighted to vote in favour of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65351	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65352	Mr. Stazic, this law is nothing new, and we have so far resolved how the Code of Criminal Procedure and Violent Laws. We see that they have been reviewed in this law in the reasoning and laws of a series of states, and thus the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, and they have the same pandan that we are now introducing. Interestingly, Slovenia does not have a special law on the confiscation of property, but as Croatia has so far resolved it with the CAP and the Criminal Law. Therefore, to take away property benefits requires political and judicial will either exists or does not exist. In Croatia, this has not been working until now, because it is some parties not only after these last affairs, mainly after Eve Sanader's escape, would have had to return all the illegal acquired property, but would most likely remain without its existing name after bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65353	Answer Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65354	My colleague Cain, I really don't feel guilty that you're late for a debate on behalf of the club, so now you're replicating me. I'm really not guilty of this, but I think this law brings in a newspaper, and it brings in some newspapers, and it's about what I've been talking about now insurance for such stolen money before a criminal procedure seems extremely important to me. I think we should all support this. I think that when this law comes into force as public, as representatives of the public, as the supreme representative body not only legislative but also the supreme representative body, we should check how much it applies in practice, especially when it comes to the case you mentioned, the case of the ruling party in Croatia, to see if by this law these assets will be blocked or this Law is adopted only as a fig leaf, as a message to Europe here we change the laws, and we do not really intend to apply them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65355	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mrs. Mrs. twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65356	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here it is, I will fully correct Mr. Stazic's incomprehensible claim that the people have lost their full trust in power and that there is no hope that anything will happen. The real truth is that since the arrival of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor at the head of this government, a zero degree of tolerance has been declared in corruption that you have never supported, nor have you made any of your contributions especially when it refers to your party, and I must say in one small segment and to you personally, so you keep saying something that is not true at all. But you're saying that for daily-political reasons, and by not listening to the public at all, the public, while welcoming all these events back a year, the public is certain that more will be found, is safe for you and your party that they will certainly come out. I hope then you will finally stop being boastful, hypocritical and irresponsible, that you will say that both the judiciary and this government and this Croatia have a zero degree of tolerance towards corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65357	Thank you. This looked more like a replica. We have another correction of incorrect allegations, Mr. Kruno Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65358	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Stazic, argues that the institution's trust will actually restore resolution as he says in the ruling party's case, which is incorrect. There will be no trust in institutions until some of the things in the SDP are resolved, first of all, who received 4.6m euros in silent bribes because they are probably fairly distributed, which wants to compensate for the damages for the sale of the hotel that was sold for a million and was worth 30 million. So, who's gonna pay back $29 million and stuff? So we can all make our contribution, SDP especially because I think that during those short-term governments there's something to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65359	Let's move on with the debate. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65360	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So the possibility of confiscation of illegally acquired assets is a subject that has been discussed on many occasions in both political and public circles, always calling for experiences developed by democracy. In all discussions, both politics, professions and citizens, this Act is welcomed, namely the announcement of the confiscation of property. And I personally support the adoption of this law. I believe that Croatian citizens, that Croatian citizens are extremely concerned about the adoption of this Law, show all public research that citizens believe that there have been many, too many criminal activities in conversion and privatisation, and this is confirmed by the findings of the main State audits and, of course, advocates the confiscation of the property acquired in this way, and that is why we in the SDP have proposed amendments to the Constitution on the non-depreciation of crime in conversion and privatisation. The DORH reports show that in corruption cases a lot has been taken away last year in terms of seizing property benefit from a large number of people that are frozen, that a large number of millions of kunas and euros and movables and shares have been frozen. However, I do not deliberately mention these figures for myself to say anything, can be assessed positively but also negatively depends on how they are viewed and what is meant to be said. What's the real problem is the general perception present in society that crime is worth it. And that perception, I'd say, seems to have a devastating effect on the value system in society. Directly leads to a loss of trust in the institutions of society, and the worst is one of the wrong foundations on which future generations build their image of morality in society, and I absolutely disagree with my colleague, Sumrak, who believes that Croatian citizens have confidence in institutions. No, they don't. They lost everyone and the least trust they had and they're sick of politics and us, and they think we've had instruments like politicians in our hands before, to take more important, more serious, more concrete steps in this regard. That's what we haven't done, unfortunately. And I believe that this law in this sense goes in the right direction, only that, of course, passing the law is one thing, and implementing it, making it life and real is something else entirely. Thus, by welcoming the adoption of this law, we cannot stress in the SDP once again that the laws sanction, or regulate relations towards social deviations, but unfortunately that the laws do not often eradicate the causes of these deviations, and therefore, in addition to passing laws, it is extremely important to create a general social climate that will remove the origins of corruption. And we need to be aware of the fact that the fight against the source of corruption cannot be waged by campaigns, so it is not campaigning, but by implementing democratic procedures. Transparency, respect for procedures, clear rules, availability of information, and professional and well-organised control and monitoring of procedures are the only guarantee that we will narrow down the area where corruption is born. But there is one more thing to say, unfortunately, if we organized it properly and implemented it, it does not mean that we finally solved the problem, because the key thing in the whole story remains the question of the man in the broadest sense of the word. In order to make it more clear what I'm talking about, we are witnessing an unusual collapse of basic moral principles, which can also be seen through something very, very recent. So because of the legal possibilities of obtaining forgiveness from the USKOK, highly-positioned managers of public enterprises without having any remorse, I would say without any moral shame justify their misdeeds by the order of superiors, as if that fact in any way frees them from responsibility for issues of their moral and personal integrity, is it possible that we are headed by public companies by persons who are without discussion only because they come from the superiors, regardless of which they are not in the public interest, in the interest of those who are where they are. Is it possible that only obedient and opportunists are making progress in this society and it is justified to ask the question of where it leads us, or where it will lead us? Croatia has so far not had a specialised law on this matter, but there have been certain standards in criminal law and some other laws, but there have also been a lot of saying gray zones, e.g. on who should manage the seized property or place it for sale. This law should remove these gray zones and should not be doubted in unanimous support of its adoption, certainly it should not be questioned in support of its implementation. I think the law is good, it should be supported, but writing the law is only one step. I hope we do the next one and show that we didn't just write what we wrote because someone's watching us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65361	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65362	I share your opinion that the citizens have lost their trust. They have lost confidence because watching corruption can be encouraged and encouraged in two ways. The first time he didn't react to it, which was a classic case in our country for seven years, nothing was done, no investigation was done, everyone saw for example. how much one party spends in pre-election campaigns, that it is disproportionate to others, and that it is disproportionate to the funds it receives from the budget, all citizens. The only person who hasn't seen it has not seen the State's Attorney's Office and the police. But corruption can also be encouraged by relativating. They're all equally corrupt. What a colleague Markovanovic does. It means to encourage corruption. Full relativation. They're all equally corrupt, never mind, mentioning these cases, boasting that the government has launched an anti-corruption program. So why doesn't this government investigate those affairs he keeps talking about? Why does he mention them? Because those affairs aren't there. Because there's no corruption. If there is, let the bodies investigate, we invite them as SDP to investigate these possible affairs. Well, at least now it's air conditioning to investigate, if it wasn't seven years ago, there was this climate. I don't know why there wouldn't be 7 years of that climate compared to SDP. Why the State's Attorney's Office, why hasn't the HDZ police been investigating these affairs for seven years as long as it's in power? So that's how corruption can be encouraged. They're all equally guilty, they're all corrupt, and then it's not that bad. It's a message that goes from here, from fellow Markovanovic from this Parliament, persistently, persistently. We're reading here now that some of the money in the envelopes went to the MPs. Well, maybe that's why, the ruling party, maybe it's because they're spreading propaganda like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65363	Correction, Mrs. Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65364	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's the incorrect assumption that citizens have lost, Madam MPs, every trust in the institutions of the state. Quite the opposite, my colleague. Citizens have just come to the attention of what the government is doing in curbing corruption, and in addition, the law that we are now discussing is expressing the view that no one can achieve property benefit by criminal act or offence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65365	Correction, Mrs. Sunny Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will correct my colleague Jerkovic, who incorrectly told me in the SDP, we have proposed non-depreciation of crime in conversion and privatisation. No counterpart Jerkovic, the Croatian Democratic Community has proposed a constitutional provision on this, so HDZ has proposed it, and I will just say it is not the same to say and do, you have had opportunities, I will not go back much to the past, so look exactly at the session of the Presidency and the press conference that was held then, so the Croatian Democratic Community has proposed it. I don't agree to qualifications that we're all equal. The Croatian Democratic Community has over 220 thousand members, and I am ordering here from the Assembly that I will not be offended, me as a member of the HDZ and that we are all said to be equal. We're not all equal, we're not equal, we're not equal, we're not equal, we're not equal, we're not equal, we're not equal, we're not equal, we're not equal, we're not equal, we're not equal, we're not equal, we're not equal, we're not equal, we're not equal. Therefore, what has been done is that HDZ has opened the door and that HDZ has proposed this constitutional provision on non-depreciation of crime in conversion and privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65367	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. It will be decided when the conditions are met, and I now announce that at 15 o'clock there will be an extension of the session with the agenda Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biofuels for Transport Act. Here, have a nice day. At 3:00, it continues. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Abuse of Property Benefit Procedure by Criminal Crime and Violation. That was a second reading, P.Z.E. No. 595. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law on the process of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by criminal act and violation. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 114 votes for, 1 vote abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65369	We're continuing the session. - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Biofuels Act for transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 663 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The State aid law of the Competition Protection Agency delivered an earlier binding opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, on European Integration, on the Economy, on local and regional (regional) self-government. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Economy Ministry State Secretary Natasa Vujec will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65370	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives. Here, I apologize as far as I understand I'm a little late, really take my apology. It wasn't possible to get here before. In short, I would like to present the reasons for the amendments and the addition of the Biofuels Act to transport. The biofuels law for transport was passed last year, 2009 and was passed in April. So, at the same time as the new EU directive is adopted, which is Directive 2009/28 on the promotion of the use of renewable energy. So, the main reason for the amendments and additions of the Biofuels Act is to meet the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to comply with Croatia's legislation with the EU acquis. Therefore, with that Directive and the harmonisation of the rules in the biofuels sector by creating a new institutional system to achieve the objectives of increasing the production and use of biofuels in transport. And all in line with the objectives of sustainable development. The basic newspaper in this Directive in the field of biofuels introduced into the amendments and additions to the Biofuels Act are the following: this is primarily a binding objective for each EU Member State representing 10% of the share of renewable energy in energy consumed in transport in 2020. In addition to biofuels, other forms of renewable energy used for transport such as renewable electricity and hydrogen produced from renewable sources may be included in the mandatory share of 10%. In order to meet the binding objective, it is necessary to demonstrate the sustainability of the production of raw materials for biofuels in accordance with the prescribed sustainability criteria. The contribution of biofuels produced from waste, residues, non-food cellulose materials and... cellulose materials will be calculated double. So this is to encourage the development of second-generation biofuel production technologies. The energy development strategy also recognises the emerging circumstances of both the development guidelines and the national objective of both renewables and biomass in general and biofuels. This objective will be achieved by meeting 10% of the share of renewable energy used in all forms of transport, which is also in line with this bill. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure, for this reason, because it represents the need to harmonise the rules of the biofuels sector with the acquis, for reasons of the need to protect the environment, to protect nature and to increase energy security and the need to create a new institutional system to achieve the objectives of increasing the production and use of biofuels in transport in line with the objectives of sustainable development. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65371	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HNS-HSU representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65372	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Biofuels are of particular interest to the EU and, of course, to the Republic of Croatia because they contribute to environmental protection, which also encourages their use, production and placement. The main reason for this amendment and the addition of the law is to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the EU, in particular Directive 28 of 2009 which regulates the production of renewable energy. The Republic of Croatia, in accordance with that Directive, aims to increase the share of renewable energy in the total direct energy consumption to 20%. In order to achieve the objective, it is necessary to encourage the development of wood-processing industry, to develop forest management in a way that allows for the greatest exploitation of forest biomass and the promotion of the reforestation and cultivation of short fertilisation cultures on forest land. The proposed amendments and additions to this law therefore create assumptions for the sustainable development of production and use of biofuels for transport. The proposed solutions will contribute to reducing negative environmental impacts, improving fuel supply security in an environmentally acceptable way, creating a presumption of the Republic of Croatia's obligation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a way that encourages the production and use of biofuels in transport in exchange for diesel fuel, motor gasoline and other. The Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Retirement Party supports the position and opinion of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government under which Article 19. The final proposal for this law should be amended in such a way as to establish a formula whereby the single amount of monetary incentives for the production of biofuels or for the production of a particular type of biofuels and not to determine that amount on the basis of the difference between the market price of fossil fuel compared to the price of biofuels on the reference international market, increased by a justified difference in domestic production costs and biofuel prices on the reference international market. And what will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia every year by the end of October of the current year for the following year as proposed by this Final Bill. In this respect, it was pointed out that the Act would define a formula whereby the single amount of monetary incentives for biofuel production would provide better protection and greater security to biofuel producers in the Republic of Croatia and avoid the circumstance for the government to determine both the amount and the unitary amount of the monetary incentive for biofuel production. The Biofuels Act for transport was adopted in 2009 under Directive 30 of 2003, whose application was controversial because it had a global increase in food prices, and it proved doubtful about the savings of CO2 emissions. The latest assessments of the implementation of the directive in the prices of EU Member States say that the target of 5.75% of the biofuels in the total fuel consumption for transport in 2010 will not be achieved but is expected to be around 4.2% of the share. Experiences stemmed from the application of Directive 30 of 2003 and Directive 77 of 2001 were the result of Directive 28 of 2009. This Directive regulates the production of energy from renewable sources, and other than electricity and biofuels also includes the production of cooling and heat. The objectives to be achieved by 2020 are binding on Member States. The target of 20% of the share of renewable resources in the total energy consumption of the European Union by 2020. A binding target for each country of a minimum 10% share of renewable energy in transport fuels. The sustainability of the production of biofuels should be demonstrated by a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by at least 30% and by at least 50% after the start of 2017. The contribution of biofuels produced from waste, residues, non-food cellulose materials, etc. will be calculated double. In addition to biofuels, other renewable energy used for transport can be included in the share, such as electricity that is included 2.5 times the amount actually spent for road transport. Directive 28 of 2009 provides for the development and adoption of a national renewable energy action plan. Further guidance on the calculation of the share of renewable energy in the total energy consumed for transport, the calculation of greenhouse gas savings, sustainability criteria for biofuel production, etc. A few words on the strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia. The 2009 strategy has its basis in the 2002 strategy, respecting all new circumstances of today's day. The energy development strategy in the transport sector foresees an increase in energy efficiency by promoting energy savings and the use of renewable energy. The transport sector participates in total direct energy consumption with about 30%. The rate of growth is high, more than 3.8% a year over the past five years. The largest share of energy consumption in the sector has road transport, with almost 90%. This share is also expected in the future, therefore, at the heart of the energy efficiency policy in the transport sector on road transport. The aim of the Republic of Croatia is that in 2020, the share of renewable energy in total non-compared energy consumption is 20%. The target has its segments as well. 35% will be the share of electricity from renewable energy sources, including large hydropower plants. 10% will be the share of renewable energy used in all forms of transport. 20% will be the share of energy for heating and cooling from renewable energy sources. In the area of production and use of biofuels, national targets and activities are foreseen by the energy development strategy. It is said that the Republic of Croatia will aim to use 9 PJ, energy from biofuels in 2020. To this end, the production of biofuels on the market and promotional campaigns and price policy will be encouraged by their use. In the Republic of Croatia, the aim will be to increase the yield and increase the processing surfaces of agricultural crops that are raw materials for biofuel production. No imports of raw materials, i.e. the production of biofuels based on raw materials from domestic agricultural and other production. The determination that biofuel raw materials do not compete with food will be expressed, priority will be to meet human and animal nutritional needs, and the formation of mandatory grain reserves. Breeding must be based on sustainable land exploitation in order not to list the soil. I want to repeat that sentence. Therefore, cultivation must be based on sustainable land exploitation, so as not to damage the soil. The next goal is that other than biofuels and grains and biofuels of the second generation, biofuels and that biodiesel will be produced from waste edible oil. In order to produce biodiesel and save in environmental protection, the Republic of Croatia will encourage the collection and processing of waste edible oil. The purpose of the national renewable energy action plan is to establish the perspective and plan of measures for the development of renewable energy infrastructure. In order to achieve the promotion of renewable energy sources in Croatia, it is necessary to record the current situation more carefully and more precisely in order to move towards the objectives set by smart and effective measures. HNS Club, HSU will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65373	Thank you. SDP's club, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65374	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the SDP Club on this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biofuels for Transport, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law. The reason the SDP club will support this bill is because Croatia must transpose Directive 2009/20/EC from April of last year, because it is binding on all EU members and is binding on the Republic of Croatia to become an EU member. Another reason why the SDP club will support the adoption of this law is that this proposal significantly improves the current Biofuels Act that we adopted in May 2009, and here improvements have resulted in weaknesses seen so far as the previous EU Biofuels Directives of 2003, but also the weakness of our law which has made it difficult to apply biofuels in transport rather than to be facilitated. On that occasion, we warned at the SDP club that the Biofuels Act does not encourage the production of biofuels in Croatia but encourages the import and blending of outside-produced fuels into Croatian motor fuels, which in fact stimulated and subsidized the economy of other countries, not domestic production. In fact, the Croatian ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, as well as the takeover of the EU acquis, has committed itself to respecting certain standards and rules and what we can do in an extremely expensive way and extremely unfavourable way for Croatia and the already knock-out Croatian economy, or we can do so in a way that, apart from the benefits for the environment of Croatia, will also have a positive impact on the weakened Croatian economy. International conventions and the EU do not tell us how to do this. They tell us that we need to do this, and in the wisdom and mind of every state and national government is to do it the way he knows and can. And the Croatian government does not seem to know how to do it in a way that would be useful for Croatia. In fact, the Government continues to treat environmental protection exclusively as an international agreement to take over the cost, not as an opportunity for Croatia's new and better development, not only of social and environmental development but also of economic development. This is exactly the idea behind the syntagm of sustainable development. Which is why in the SDP, we believe that the government does not use biofuels and all other renewable energy sources as an opportunity to develop the main engine of the future Croatian economic development economy. First of all, the Government has not yet drawn up the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, which is a basic prerequisite for implementing renewable energy sources in Croatia and using renewable energy sources as a sector for launching a new investment cycle in Croatia, economic recovery and a new cycle of employment of the population. Renewable sources can be implemented in one way or another, they can be realised or mobilized by domestic fallen industries, construction and mesatrerading industries, and even shipbuilding on the production and development of domestic technology and renewable energy plants or can be realised by purchasing other people's technology and subsidising other people's economies. This applies not only to solar power plants and solar technology, wind power plants, geothermal plants, energy or biomass power plants, small hydropower plants, but also to biofuel production. Croatia must not be able to achieve the 10% target of renewable energy in transport fuels by 2020 by measuring the production of biodiesel, biogas and bioethanol or by producing biofuels in Croatia. In the SDP club, we believe that the state's subsidies to biofuels must not be spent on blending and selling biofuels but only on domestic production of biofuels. Only in this case can Croatia benefit from biofuels and use biofuels as an engine for better eco-friendly development of Croatia. And for this, we do not only need a national action plan for renewable energy sources in the Republic of Croatia, but also urgently as soon as possible to adopt quality for the Croatian economy of the incentive law on renewable energy sources. Biofuels are only one segment of this extremely important sector and amendments to this law are simply not enough to realise that objective. In the SDP club, we have an objection to the name of the law itself because we believe that it would be more in line with the European Directive and the very content of the law covering both hydrogen and hybrids and electricity as a driving force in transport so that things of the law can be seen from the very name of the law, which is renewable fuel for transport. This bill shows the lobbyist tendency of the legislator to certain types of biofuels. There is certainly the first place biodiesel that causes the most sympathy while bioethanol and biogas are somehow in the second place. In the SDP club, we believe that this is not good and that the applicant should have a balanced and non-discriminatory approach to all domestically produced renewable transport fuels. Positive discrimination should only be seen in terms of incentives and subsidies exclusively domestically produced renewable fuels. We see particularly great potential in promoting the production of biogas and the exclusive use of biogas in public urban and suburban transport. The indisputable fact is that energy efficiency or energy efficiency in transport is an extremely significant sector, as Croatia spends about a third of primary energy on transport. Although Croatia does not have an impact on the vehicle's economy because it is produced in a dozen large systems, Croatian policy can have a significant positive impact in two ways and in this extremely important sector by improving public transport, especially by suburban and optimising excise duties and tolls. The fact is that due to relatively fast economic benefits among renewable energy sources, biofuels, biodiesel, bioethical and biogas by-products of agricultural production are particularly isolated. At the time of increasingly expensive fossil fuels, the unbalanced development of Croatia and the need to reform the biofuels agricultural sector are options that can answer all three issues while reducing the country's dependence on the import of fossil fuels and greenhouse gas emissions that Croatia could cost around 100m euros a year for respecting Kyoto protocol. Support for biofuels as an ecological alternative to import fossil fuels would lead to an increase in the number of jobs especially in less developed areas of Croatia. Regional development in Croatia is unbalanced, most of the economy is concentrated in the capital and the moderate potential for development in coastal and coastal areas. Slavonia and Baranja are agricultural regions without strong development drivers, so biofuels would bring development potential to these regions. Transferring subsidies through biofuels would allow painless maintenance of the same level of support to farmers, and a significant increase in demand for energy crops would reduce pressure on maintaining high prices of agricultural prices in Croatia, resulting in an increase in standards for the entire population, and in particular in the part with lower incomes which make food a significant share of consumption. The start of the biofuels sector would result in an increase in jobs, especially in the now poor agricultural regions, an increase in energy security, a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and other harmful emissions. In fact, the start of biofuel development 20 years ago indicates that the objective of the development of biofuel production was to develop rural areas, develop and increase agricultural production in rural areas, ensure economic income for the population and enable life in those areas. The aim was to alleviate the economic migration of the population to large cities and to create proletaries and social cases. At that time, the European Union did not consider the energy efficiency and usefulness of biofuel production or environmental protection and pollution reduction. At that time, and today, the aim is not to turn intensively agriculturally active areas in food production into areas for the exclusive production of biofuels. Bio diesel as energy and fuel gets its status on the European Union market only in 2003 when it is regulated by law and when quality is defined for this product, making the way for its wide production and application. The planned and systematically-led biofuel production strategy should primarily aim at achieving economic development, reducing energy dependence, creating new economic values and economic benefits for the entire society, and then meeting the international obligations set before the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union. It is important to encourage the development of the Croatian cycle from field to car and to adequately subsidise with the aim of encouraging the development of all segments of production that rely on the biofuel chain. The strategy for the development and introduction of the life of the economic branch of biofuel production should be seen as a three-carica chain, of raw materials production, chemical-technology production of biofuels, use and market life of biofuels. Each link has its specificities, legality and professional requirements and should be addressed accordingly. However, in order to achieve economic benefits, the entire programme should be managed as a whole, at the same time observing the interconnection and dependence of the three link(s). It is necessary to set a development strategy and to clearly define the rules of conduct, to define what is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and how it can function on the market of the Republic of Croatia. The first link involves encouraging the development of agriculture in rural areas, the activation of agricultural land that has ceased to be processed in the last decade, the creation of agricultural production on market grounds according to the European Union model. The agricultural producer that receives the incentive would produce exactly certain cultures on a specific plot, and the culture and parcel itself would not choose to do so in agreement with the agency which would, meaning to the Agency for Renewable Sources, Energy and Biofuels, which would monitor the planning and development of biofuel production. The resulting agricultural product would be sold on the biofuel market or used for its own purposes. The second link is the most important, keeps the chain in operation, i.e. ensuring economic growth and development. The development strategy determines the geographical position of future production plants, their size related to the Syrian base and the product market. The emphasis should be placed on the domestic technological development of biofuel production and the development of appropriate equipment and devices at chemical and technological and technical colleges and domestic plant equipment manufacturers. The technological processes of production and the quality of the product must be based on the economic principles of business and ensure the competitiveness of the product on the markets. The development strategy should provide for incentives for domestic biofuel producers that meet the rules of law and standards of production per litre or kilogram of biofuels produced from domestic raw materials and consumed on the domestic market. The third link includes the regulation of the market rules for biofuels and biofuel consumption rules. It is primarily necessary to encourage the consumption of biofuels produced in the Republic of Croatia from domestic raw materials, and to define the quality and quantity monitoring system of biofuels on the market as well as biofuel flows on the market through the agency, previously mentioned. It is also necessary to define the institutions and monitoring models and mechanisms of corrective action in the event of market deviations and to regulate the tax system on the biofuels, VAT, excise duties, special taxes, taxes and the like. The economic space biofuels in the Republic of Croatia is currently being monitored and regulated by a number of state institutions. As a result, the existing regulation is inintegrated and inconsistencies. Such an approach has proved inefficient and insufficiently good for the production of biofuels and the development of a new economic branch. One reason is the lack of expertise and lack of knowledge of technical issues related to biofuels in state administration bodies. It is therefore necessary to establish an expert body, a biofuels agency that will help the ministries with their work and knowledge to restore their jobs better, while at the same time making it easier and easier for biofuel producers to implement planned projects with their inclusion in the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that such a way and such a strategy would indeed be one indication that the production of biofuels and renewable energy sources for the Republic of Croatia is indeed a branch of strategic interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65375	Thank you. National Minority Representatives' Club, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65376	Honorable Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Biofuels Act with the final proposal is certainly a harmonisation primarily with EU legislation, but I think it is also fortunate that the European Union has problems with renewable fuel sources, especially in transport, so it cannot satisfy 75% of the share of biofuels in the total fuel consumption in transport in 2010 and certainly it has sought to immediately hang Pedro. The main reasons why this is not permitted are that the main raw materials for the production of biofuels are food products which have increased prices due to biofuel reorientation, although it has been forgotten that when prices grew that the causes were in 2008 in the world's single drought, in 2010 let's say that the gorilla is all Russia, etc., but there are good reasons. It was equally suspected that the dubious savings of CO2 emissions in the entire cycle of biofuel production were also polluted by the increased production of biofuels, although it was forgotten that the only plants and the process of assimilation were adopted by CO2 and the only ones that from inorganic substances are converted into starch, sugar, or energy-rich compounds, which are not possible for anyone other than plants. We have not been prevented from forming biofuels for another generation since the second generation of fuels in Europe are produced in the same way for nearly 10 years, and the second generation of biofuels is produced primarily from waste, residues of non-food, cellulose or non-contamination materials, and let us not forget that quality energy is also biogas from land manure, electricity from forest and agricultural waste. Equally available agricultural areas in Croatia, several times when we talked about agriculture we emphasized, used poorly, low levels of agricultural production are achieved, with extensive technology and normally that we cannot talk about the rerouting of the great potential that Croatia has, which is precisely the production of cereals that could indeed be directed in the direction of bioethanol or one part of the area in the direction of biodiesel that Europe has been doing for years and only an increase, production would satisfy not only the needs of 20 million inhabitants that the Republic of Croatia has, it would satisfy the needs for energy and not that we are importing 40% of food today. Because we will all agree that Croatia has a natural good that, with co-ordination of production and consumption, it can produce bio-energy according to the new 2009 directive, a leading rhacine on energy independence and energy efficiency in line with sustainable development. The renewable energy generation directive means the same way that biofuels target cooling and heat generation and gives us certain deadlines, moving deadlines to 2020, which means that with mandatory production, 20% of renewable energy moves the border from 5.75% of renewable sources in transport to 10% of the share of renewable sources in fuels in transport 2020. If we take transport in direct energy consumption in Croatia as almost 30%, it grows 4% annually each year, we have a very serious task if we do not intend to welcome the same fate as we welcomed 2010. In addition, it is important to save energy with increased energy efficiency and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that are being stressed everywhere and which favours renewable sources over specific fuels. The Energy Development Strategy defines incentives for the production and use of renewable energy all in the development function and the Croatian economy, and in line with the sustainable development we talked about when we adopted certain strategies, either energy or whenever we talked about sustainable development. We started an estimated forest unused mass, unfortunately not agricultural, even a company called Forest Biomass in the Croatian Forests. There have been reports and certain investors reporting, more than 200 pre-contracts on biomass insurance have been issued and have found jobs at the beginning. The plants are being built, there are no raw materials contracts, the tenders for the sale of forest masses cancel out because someone hasn't answered, or forgot to answer, so it needs to be annulled and over and over again, we have very high pressure on our unseriousness and attracting investors. We also experience very similar experiences with biogas, namely biogas where we control farm waste where the first megawatts of electricity that have been delivered to the HEP network for months, normally gratis, because HEP did not want to pay because it stabilizes the network. Yes, the Republic of Croatia belongs to countries with a high potential of biomass and forestry, it is said of 1.5 million cubic matter, and it is also said that agriculture on these currently used million hectares has great potential in renewable sources using waste, however, it is neither evaluated nor founded by a company similar to that of forestry in order to truly manage this waste. The Republic of Croatia has a great potential in 1 million hectares of surface area which, with little investment, could be introduced into production, whether it is a fast-growing tree as the foresters say, the short-sighted trees, which are cellulosed by just as rich plants as atrophy, but without a serious national action plan, which is the obligation of every country of the European Union, without including the Ministry of Agriculture that must be included in renewable energy sources, above all through war and livestock production programmes, I think we will also continue to catch up on the European Union, investors will either bypass us or those who are slowly abandoning the country, and we will be left with a wave of strategy and laws. In fact, it is doubtless a good proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Biofuels Act is good, it is undoubtedly in line with the European Union and the latest Directive of 2009 and we will certainly support it in the Club, but as always we fear that it will schedule implementing measures, that it will schedule the quality of measures, that there will be no significant factors involved in the chain itself and we are afraid that 10 years will pass and that we will again welcome unprepared without renewable energy sources in 2020. I think it is now in the ministries to get involved primarily in implementing measures because we would not want everything to continue to be just good legislation without the accompanying effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65377	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65378	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. We know that when it comes to fossil fuels, between 30% and 40% of fossil fuels, the Republic of Croatia has domestic sources. It is oil and gas that is being drawn mainly or mostly in the region of Slavonia and Baranja, or 5 Slavonsko-Baranja counties. Here is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Biofuels Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. It seems to me that when we observe this material that is in this legislative proposal that Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem have a new chance, therefore a new chance, that in this area covered by the matter of this law they are one to say energy locomotive in biofuel production whether it is biogas, biodiesel or other energy sources. It is clear that this proposal for a law is related to the European Union directives on the share of renewables to total energy consumption by 2020 of 20%, and yet in transport it is 10% share of energy from renewable sources in transport fuels. This should take into account the agreement or the Kyoto Agreement in Japan, so when we take together the possibility and the area that exists for the possibility of growing either sugar, either oiled rape or other cultures from which biofuels can be produced, in which case it is clear that this proposal of the Law and that its implementation could be urgent for Croatia, and especially Slavonia and Baranja bring also great benefits and has changed somewhat the picture that exists now on Slavonia and Baranja and on the inequality of the development of Slavonia and Baranja in relation to the rest of the Republic of Croatia. However, the implementation of this legislative proposal should bear in mind that our agricultural areas today are one of the most polluted or purest in Europe. In doing so, we must also consider that there must be one harmony in the production of food and energy. So, in some ways, Croatia is, given the huge imports of food products and is not so dependent on domestic resources and has neglected domestic agricultural production, but if they are really serious about production and in relation to the substances of bioenergy then, in any case, it is necessary to achieve harmony and not to bring Croatia into the position of some other countries that have actually polluted their soils and thus brought the very countries in which some cultures can't shine there as much as this soil has been altered and ecologically threatened by artificial fertilisers, pesticides, etc. Croatia, too, when it comes to the exploitation of biomass, is then talking about the values and possibility of exploiting our forests, which again, geographically,... the distribution of which again enrichs our five counties, clearly this refers to the production of electricity for some other needs and not for transport, but in any case in this legislative proposal it is highlighted, so I must stress it. The HDSB Club will be for this Legislative Proposal by making sure that this implementation of this legislative proposal is as fast as possible to achieve what is said in the European Union directives, which is 20% of the energy from renewable sources and 10% of the energy for transport. Furthermore, I am also talking about the mandatory attention of all ministries, mainly the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, when it comes to this exactly harmonising food production and food processing facilities with the production of biofuels, so that we do not come into a situation to equalize ourselves by the quality of soil and pollution one to say that we do not bring Croatia and, in particular, those areas that are suitable for the production of biofuels in one ecological disaster and thank God that this has not been the case until now, but we are also limping in biofuel production. Here is the HDSSB Club to adopt this legislative proposal on amendments to the Biofuels Act with the Final Bill of Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65379	Thank you. Mrs. Nevenka Marinovic's club of HDZ representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65380	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here at the beginning of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this bill in the first place because it has been improved compared to the current Biofuels Act for transport. I will start my discussion by defining biofuels which is an integral part of Article 3 of this Proposal to amend and supplement the Transport Biofuels Act and which is that biofuels are liquid or gas fuels for motor vehicles and ships for transport purposes but produced from biomass. And biomass under the same article is a biodegradable part of products or waste or residues of organic origin from agriculture, of course, including substances of plant or animal origin, forestry and related production activities including fisheries, aquaculture and biodegradable parts of industrial and municipal waste. Biofuels are of particular interest to the European Union, of course, and also to the Republic of Croatia, because other than the contribution to environmental protection, which was also one of the most important reasons for encouraging their use, their production of contributions and diversification of energy sources, but also to increasing energy security. Biofuels include biodiesel, therefore bioethanol, but also other liquid and gas fuels defined in the biofuel quality regulation, and raw materials for the production of biodiesel are rape oil, soybean soybean, palm oil, waste, edible oil, and bioethanol corn, wheat and barley. The Republic of Croatia, as we heard in the strategy, set the goal of increasing yields and increasing processed areas, in order to achieve the share of renewable energy sources in transport, means 10% in 2020, without importing raw materials, i.e. the production of biofuels based on raw materials from domestic agricultural and other production. Under biofuels, this is what we heard here today, meaning biofuels obtained from waste, residues of agricultural production, non-food cellulose materials, lignocellulous and lignocellulous materials. Although technologies are still in development, Croatia creates conditions for their immediate application, but respecting the fact that out of the total biomass produced in the field 40% must be returned to the ground, 30% for animal nutrition, and 30% can be used to produce biofuels. We know that the Republic of Croatia has significantly larger oral surfaces than it is now using, so it is realistic to expect a significant part of these areas to be activated to achieve the goal set. The Biofuels Act for transport regulates the activity of biofuel production in such a way as to regulate the issue of dedicated charges for the promotion of biofuel production, including the means of bonds, the level of compensation, the manner of payment, etc., but also the system of boosting the production of biofuels, means the very way of stimulating the height, the type of biofuels, whose production is encouraged, the minimum and maximum amount encouraged, the way in which the right to encourage is achieved, etc. The quality regulation regulates the area of production of biofuels in the sense that it determines which products are considered biofuels, but also prescribes the limit values of characteristics and the quality of biofuels, which are naturally placed on the domestic market. Many sub-legislative acts regulate the promotion of biofuel production for transport, the specific environmental compensation if biofuels are not placed on the market, we in the HDZ Club hold that this is a fairly good provision, then the process to achieve incentives for production, the way and conditions of application of sustainability requirements in production and use, measures to promote use, but also the establishment of average energy values and the single amount of monetary incentives for the production of biofuels and the unitary amount of biofuels. With these proposed amendments and amendments to the law, I said at the outset that improve this existing law, I will only mention some articles of the law that we at the Croatian Democratic Community club have made extremely positive. This is the first Article 6, where Article 6 is amended in such a way as to define the national objective of placing biofuels on the market as mandatory rather than as a planned indicative objective. Furthermore, the new Article 17, which introduces a sustainability requirement in accordance with Directive 2009/28 EC, as a new legal institute, with the aim of protecting land relevant for the conservation of biodiversity, the protection of land with a large supply of carbon and shale, as well as the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the emissions generated by diesel fuel and motor gasoline. It is good to meet the sustainability requirement and the conditions for the payment of incentives and the recognition of and the energy of biofuels in the quota to meet the national objective. This creates assumptions for sustainable development, meaning production and use of biofuels, but would also point to novelty, meaning Article 10, which simplifies the planning system without affecting the quality and feasibility of planning. The principle of monitoring of the county and/or large cities programme at the annual level has therefore been maintained, and the obligation to align the objectives of the plan with the real conditions in the event of significant deviations. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club expect that the implementation of these new solutions, new proposed solutions, means this legislative proposal will result in the achievement of the objectives of sustainable development in the field of transport, by reducing negative environmental impacts, by improving the security of fuel supply in an environmentally acceptable way, by meeting the needs of consumers for fuel, but also by meeting the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, by encouraging the production and use of biofuels in transport, as a substitute for diesel fuel and gasoline, but also by not less importantly harmonising and strengthening the cross-sectoral link and coordination of activities between agriculture and forestry, environmental protection, industry, energy and financing. We also point out that this proposal is a law, meaning the Competition Protection Agency has given an earlier binding opinion showing that the incentives are well-regulated, that there are good meanings and harmonised incentives for the production of biofuels, and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65381	Thank you. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Director, Representatives and Representatives. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biofuels Act for Transport. We believe that it is on the trail of harmonisation with the new European Union directive, that it will contribute to improving the existing law, as we remember that in the adoption of this existing law, MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament have warned of certain weaknesses that are now being removed, and we believe that such changes to the law will contribute to the easier achievement of the targets set for the production of 10% biofuels in the overall fuel market, and according to the sustainability criteria. The goals that are often pointed out here, which is 20, 20, 20 and 10%, will hardly be met because we haven't met what we've put before us so far. So by 2020 they should produce 20% of renewable energy, they should increase energy efficiency by 20%, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and place 10% of biofuels on the market in the total fuel market. Here these days the spear was broken in Cancun, Mexico, when delegations of all the countries of the world were discussing the future of the Kyoto Protocol and what we had set before them, and we didn't meet. It was evident that precisely those countries that predominate industrial production, which have sufficient financial resources, have difficulty meeting the requirements and obligations to be put before them. And in these discussions, in fact, the biggest surprise has been caused by China, which has been resisting the implementation of Kyoto protocol obligations for many years. China notes major industrial growth and has realised that the commitments made under the Kyoto Protocol on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions can be met if precisely greater efforts are made in the production of renewable energy and biofuels. And look at the wonders, this particular country that was always against Kyoto Protocol mechanisms with the United States and India can now be triggered by the fact that, through the production of renewable energy sources, it met the goals set before it and from the country that wore the negative premise, it turned it into its plus. I don't think Croatia uses its potential well enough. When we talk about the potential of renewable energy generation, but also biofuels, especially in the context of reducing greenhouse gas emissions because we know that 0% of emissions are produced when we get energy from renewable sources, so from energy to biomass on biogas or when we produce biofuels. And in this segment, we at the HSS Club really feel that there is a need for stronger interest of competent resolutions and a stronger political will that has been expressed in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, but that it really needs to be implemented because there are examples that show that through the production of renewable energy sources we can indeed not only reduce greenhouse gas emissions but also create new jobs. But as it is always known, we are able to complicate our own life and put in front of ourselves a number of administrative obstacles, so if you want to build a plant for the production of biogas or biomass or biofuels, then you will need at least 50 permits. So this process will stretch for a few years and eventually from idea to realization you will lose your nerve and you will do nothing, and Croatia will lose its potential and without energy and without all those steps leading towards energy independence, which we often call for through our strategic documents. So in HSS, we think that all these procedures should be significantly simplified, that they should be facilitated, but also that the processes that are part of those basic procedures must be accelerated, they must be simpler and that certain requirements should not be kept in drawers because then we are exposed to attacks that often come from different sides that we have not done enough to realize investments in the production of green energy, and we often have complaints exactly and from foreign investors who unfortunately say nothing good about the processes that take place, especially when we talk about building energy on biomass. So we have not met the goals that we have set before us, and if we want to meet these goals, then we must be seriously busy. Here, through the law proposed, it seems to us at the HSS Club that there is insufficient mention of the role of agriculture, the role of the production of agricultural raw materials for the production of biofuels. There is no support necessary for such production and there is no support for farmers who will use such fuel within their agricultural production, that is, all of their activities carried out. We also understand that this law cannot regulate the issue of excise duties, but we expect the issue of excise duty to be re-opened, it is extremely serious and must be discussed because in most EU Member States biofuels are exempt from excise duty precisely to compensate for the difference in cost of production, and tax relief is offered to users of this fuel in the form of reduced fees either in the form of vehicle registration or in the case of the release of certain environmental taxes on cars. We therefore believe that here is the Ministry of Economy, as a matter of fact, the holder of this legislative regulation, should also open serious talks with the Ministry of Finance when we talk about the issue of excise duties, but also with the Ministry of Agriculture when we talk about support for farmers who produce raw materials for the production of biofuels and when we talk about farmers who use such fuel within their activities. In fact, we believe that just such biofuel production activities, but also renewable energy sources, fall within that pillar of sustainable development. It is about economic activities that create new jobs, protect the social security of employees and protect the environment, and therefore our opinion in the HSS is that such activities should be supported. Among other things, they contribute to the preservation and revitalisation of Croatian villages because they directly create new jobs, which through the production of raw materials itself, but also through employment in such facilities. What is extremely important is that it is also one of the steps in reducing energy dependence, and the goal of each country is to actually be energy independent and, of course, it is also a step in reducing the emissions of harmful gases into the atmosphere, which is our commitment. At this point, we are negotiating as an independent country on our own. We have an obligation to cut 5% from base '90. One year, and when we become a member of the EU, we will have to reduce 20% to 30% of greenhouse gas emissions compared to the base year. And these goals will be extremely difficult to meet, unless we take seriously that we really need to stick to work and that we need to make these processes easier, more transparent and support the production of renewable energy and biofuels. There have been numerous dilemmas that may be real for certain countries but not for Croatia. In Croatia, there are millions of hectares of agricultural areas that can very much be available for production and biomass, as well as raw materials for the production of biofuels. In this respect, a strategic action plan should also be provided for, but also for those who are obliged to provide support. Here I can say that I did something similar in Sisak-Moslavina County when I had the opportunity to be in charge of the area and it proved that we had succeeded with well-organised agricultural producers to sow unprocessed agricultural areas with oil rape, that we had secured the market and sold that oil rape to a biodiesel producer in Ozlje, that we had closed the whole cycle that buses in the City of Zagreb bought that biofuel and the Zagrebs were driving on biofuels produced from rape oil producers from Sisak-Moslavina County. We provided them with support at the county level which, unfortunately, is here by my leaving the county to be abolished. So, what I want to say in conclusion, everything we do requires political will. Sometimes it doesn't matter who designed what measure or suggested which project if it's good. As a mature political society in the 21st century, we should act in a way that takes care of what is good for our citizens, not to eliminate those projects that have produced results and which are positive. I believe this law is a reflection of political will, but in any case its implementation will show how serious we are in this. We hope that the potential of production and use of renewable energy sources and biofuels that Croatia has will be recognised, will be used and that all these aspects presently represent an obstacle in that part will be managed. And this means that they are also an obstacle to the creation of new jobs, that they are then an obstacle to the revitalisation of the Croatian village and that the obstacles to our commitments that we have taken over by signing the ratification of many international agreements and of course we must also realise what we have signed and taken over. So here are the representatives of the Government here and the Ministry of Economy, I would like to invite you, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance, to develop these encouraging measures that are necessary for this law to function on the market, but to fulfil its obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65383	Thank you. In 16,07 minutes, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65384	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. This law should certainly be supported. Let us remember that the term biofuels refers to a whole range of different fuels that are somehow produced from biomass. However, in order to avoid any misunderstandings, it is necessary to say that although the EU has adopted this directive in question, which is why we are amending EU law is well aware of all the problems and related to biofuels. These are not necessarily the most important order, the moderation of fossil fuel prices, the continued debate on food and biofuel production, potential reductions in poverty in biofuel production and transport, the issue of greenhouse gas emissions related to biofuels, sustainable production, deforestation and land erosion, the reduction of biodiversities, the impact on water resources, energy balance and efficiency, and, of course, the issue of expertise and the profession of persons involved in the whole biofuel situation. It is no wonder, therefore, that the Joint Research Center or the popular JRC as the European Commission's Chief Science Administration in the framework of the 2010-2020 Research Development Strategy has adopted a coordinated biofuel action plan. In order to promote this guideline or the Directive related to the use of renewable energy sources, then to analyse sustainability and the criteria for the production of biofuels, for example. use of land and indirect use of land. Furthermore, the issue to be addressed at European level is also the budget of greenhouse emissions, greenhouse gases and the life cycle of biomass, biofuels and their movement through the environment. Monitoring or monitoring how biofuels behave and behave in the environment. Then promoting research and technical studies related to the development of the next secondary generation of biofuels. Monitoring technological progress and the process of optimizing biofuel use. Now I ask the question, what have we in Croatia done about it all? So, the GRC has one action plan for the next 10 years with a projection by 2040. What has Croatia done besides that very general energy strategy? Let's also remember what it says in Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's program when we brought it in, when we confirmed it in the Parliament. The part relating to biofuels has only one sentence, which will promote sustainable biofuel production in order to increase transport use in order to protect the environment. So a pretty self-conceived sentence. But what has happened since today, where the promotion is, where the dialogue with the general public is, where the dialogue with the scientific and research community is. How can the GRC as the main management of the European Commission for the Environment determine for the European Commission and some commissioned projects and programmes. It is simply because these projects and programmes are interesting or vital for the European Union and for its entire development. So the development of a low-carbon society is one of the priorities of the GRC, and the second one is right behind the development of a competitive economy. And this requirement relating to low-carbon low-carbon syllabus immediately continues to be a sustainable management of natural resources, which turns towards the safety of useful products, food, etc. Thus, one consistent series of thematic areas related to energy and environmental management as well as food production. Where is this cooperation between the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Economy? Furthermore, we have seen that the European Union itself is aware of these many potential problems stemming from the use and promotion of biofuels, so I ask the question of where this law is incorporated into socially responsible business i.e. One internal mechanism that these laws and activities related to the promotion of biofuels and all supporting activities will not compromise the fundamental principles, the ISO standard 26000 relating to socially responsible business. Of course, we do not have to blindly listen to the European Union and change our laws because it is required by the European acquis, we can go one step further and no one would condemn us to our laws, so this one is installed and additional mechanisms that we or someone else who comes with their investments in Croatia will not endanger our fundamental environmental, social, social and other values. In doing so, we need to think about the creation of all future laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65385	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter esteemed Natasa Vujec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65386	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Parliamentarians. First of all, in the context of this final presentation, I would like to show myself on the proposed amendments. I am familiar with three proposed amendments sent by the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament and this way, on behalf of the promoters of these amendments and additions to the Biofuels Act, I would like to say that we accept all three amendments. Also today, during this debate, we also received the fourth amendment, which was submitted on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Franjo Lucic, and I would also like to say, on behalf of the promoters, that we also accept this fourth amendment. Dear MPs, I am truly very happy and satisfied with this constructive debate that has been led by the Biofuels Act. During the debate, you have encouraged many concrete examples and many of the problems that arise in our use and implementation of the source i.e. renewable energy sources, i.e. the use of all renewable energy sources and for the production of electricity, and this opportunity for use for the purpose of fuel production. As for that, I can say that we know, and investors come to us every day and there are problems. It's not a comfort, but it's a similar situation in other countries. This area of renewables far exceeds the area of the great energy that we have all had opportunities to meet. This is an area of brand-new technologies, brand-new application criteria and completely new frameworks, and as regards environmental protection, nature protection, so that sometimes you come up with this absurd situation that the implementation of renewable energy sources is our goal signed on the basis of Chapter 15. - Energy. This is the objective set out in the European Union Directives for the protection of the environment, and in the end one of the great reasons for the implementation of this objective is in fact additional protection of the environment and protection of nature. So in all these events, I say there are many such absurd situations. But it is up to all of us to try to do this with new directives, by applying these new directives that are being adopted for these very reasons to try to overcome and ultimately achieve that goal by 2020. In order to achieve the 2020 objective, the legislative framework should be resolved as soon as possible, and they can also say that these changes and complement part of this one general framework that needs to be adopted in order to ultimately achieve this objective and implement renewable energy sources in direct energy consumption and for electricity generation and biofuels. As far as the question is concerned, and as far as the new ISO 26000 standard is concerned, this is also one of those answers. This is one framework that is in fact in line with these socio-responsible actions and operations. One of the remarks and one of the comments during the debate was that we are also adopting the Biofuels Act for transport and that we do not have sublegal regulation, or one of the concerns was that the adoption of the law will not be done, and now I would also like to say that as soon as the Honored Parliament adopts this law within 15 days as possible will be proposed to the Government for the adoption of the National Action Plan to encourage the production and use of biofuels in transport for the period from 2011 to 2012. He's completely gouted and he's been working parallel to the amendments and additions of this law. And also parallel to that, a Regulation on the promotion of biofuels for transport has been made so that this regulation will be proposed to the Government for adoption and we expect it in the last week of this year so that we have both the law and the important two acts as we enter into the second year. So, the National Action Plan and this Regulation that will enable the implementation and implementation of the laws practically from January next year. In short, the National Action Plan itself, which is also visible in the law. I would also refer to the comment that has been made during the debate today, which is that the quantities related to biodiesel production have taken a larger share than the production of bioethanol and biogas. One of the answers is also because the production of biodiesel is in fact a replacement for diesel fuel, and according to forecasts by 2020 and the situation in favour of diesel consumption today can be said that 64% of the diesel is used in transports compared to 36% of what goes for ethanol, and accordingly this action plan is also adapted to the needs of fuel used. And one of these reasons is also the reason for the raw material for the production of biodiesel which is much easier available and simpler, has it in larger quantities, and in this sense it is easier to get more biodiesel than these other two biofuels. Thank you very much for your constructive discussion and I would like to conclude this brief presentation by accepting all four amendments on behalf of the motionor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65387	Thank you. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65388	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biofuels Act for Transport. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 663. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by legislator Franjo Lucic. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they too became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Biofuels Act for transport. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 116 votes along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65389	We move to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 665. Ana Lovrin and Ivo Grbić and Nevenka Marinović and Branko Kuti are proposing with the support of 24 MPs. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65390	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this presentation, I ask you colleagues and colleagues to support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law for the following reasons. Here is the law so far, so by mistake in 1997, the settlements in the two municipalities of Zadar County and the municipalities of Poličnik and Posedarje municipality were misstated. It creates problems in the everyday lives of the inhabitants of these settlements. Here I will mention, it is proud to be the population of the northeast edge of the Ravni Kotars, which is shared by the sub-byte karst and Velebit by the underground canal, the Masliničko Ždrilo and the New Town Sea. It has good infrastructure assumptions for development, so these are corridors, infrastructure corridors of state and county roads. Here is the justified population of this area seeking correction of the mistake, they say, as they say when we already have our own country why we lost our settlements, and many of the inhabitants of these settlements were defenders, many of them also died in the Homeland War. It is up to us to give them the right to correct this mistake, so that their settlements, meaning Podgradina, or Rupalj, are separate settlements, and not a part like the former law of Islam of Latin. And that's exactly what their MPs mean, and we're looking for this bill, so we're looking for a correction of the error of the existing law. What's this about? What exactly are we looking for? To be included in the municipality of Posedarje in the settlements Ždrilo and Grgurica as an independent settlement because it is prescribed by the statute of the municipality of Posedarje, and that the settlement of Islam Latin part of Podgradina is divided into two independent settlements and this settlement is Islam Latin and the settlement of Podgradina as it has always been. The second is that in the municipality of Poličnik, two new settlements are included Gornji Poličnik, Murvica Gornja, which is also provided for in the statutes of the municipality of Poličnik, and that the correct name of the settlement Rupalj is correct, i.e. instead of the wrong name of the settlement Islam Latin part of Rupalj, the correct name of the settlement is given. that the village of Rupalj. These two municipalities of Zadar County were mostly occupied, killed in the Homeland War, these are settlements and Podgradina and Rupalj, Murvica Gornja, Grgurice, Gornji Poličnik, they are restored, but still a large number of inhabitants of these settlements live in mines. The towns of Podgradina, Rulje, Gornji Policnik, Murvica Gornja, Ždrila and Grgurica hold that this proposal changes the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia will solve their problem regarding the issue and receipt of personal documents, IDs and beliefs, and we hold that, given that next year there is also a new census, that this proposal creates assumptions that in time the existing mistakes occur, and that these settlements are meant in the register of spatial units which is the technical documentation for the implementation of the census, and that new errors do not occur. This is why I ask you colleagues and colleagues to support this proposal, primarily because of the proud residents of the municipality of Poličnik and Posedarje, so the population of the northeastern part of the flat corners of Zadar County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65391	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65392	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear from the reasons of the law that a group of our colleagues from the HDZ from Zadar County has made a proposal that is an actual state from part of Zadar County, that is Posedarje and Poličnik contributes to the Law on County, City and Municipal Areas, thus updating and harmonising it with the real state. At the HNS Club, HSU we support you who have clearly proposed, launched this initiative, and given the reasons from which it is fully evident that the statutes of these municipalities are also adjusted, and even last year if I am not mistaken and thus the valorized situation that we have on the ground is the real situation on the ground. So I repeat again, we're going to support you at the HNS Club, HSU. However, here, colleagues and colleagues remain several large questionnaires that we have for the Ministry of Administration, not for you applicants. First, why has the Ministry of Administration missed systematically solving this problem in the year before the census, if we have two municipalities in Zadar with this situation, then it is to assume that in many other counties we have probably similar situations. We had to solve this completely, systematically, and clearly in the year before the election, and to solve it in quality. Secondly, how was it possible for colleagues and colleagues to come to this proposal on the parent board to discuss and adopt without the government's written opinion? That's one big exception. Third, why is the government treating similar opposition initiatives and the ruling coalition differently? If I am not mistaken, my colleague Mršić had similar initiatives last year, unfortunately, then it is said that it is not good to keep changing the law, that he will wait to gather a number of such initiatives and that we will systematically solve all the problems and issues that arise. Unfortunately, there's nothing in the system. Fourthly, would it not be good for the Ministry of Administration to come before the Parliament once a year with a proposal to supplement and amend this law, which would cover all the proposals that are coming in the course of that year and thus really do this job systematically and correctly. So we are for it, but not like this. This really isn't even systematic, this isn't even principled, and this is one selective approach for us that isn't acceptable in the work of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65393	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club. Pardon me, correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Doric, incorrectly said that Mršić had a similar intention when proposing his own. He had the separation of settlements from existing municipalities and the accession of the town of Koprivnica. Here are the existing settlements that I understand they are among these municipalities, only a certain regulation. So that's two different things anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65395	On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support this bill, as soon as they are, and by the more these people express their dissatisfaction in different ways and visiting all parliamentary MPs, most of the parliamentary representatives of the 9th constituency regardless of political membership. As their justified request that a simple mistake in writing has reached our State Office, and now the ministry, they have been promised that it will be corrected and that nothing is too reluctant. In this way, they have been deceived by the government, or the individual ministry, by the resolute ministry that they will do so as soon as possible. The time has passed, things have not changed again but those who are perfectly clear and that I am not repeating what it is that colleague Marinović said on behalf of the HDZ club. So, some of the settlements fell out, some of them were part of the settlement as in Islam Latin, the Podgradina part of the Rupalj settlement. So in Policnik Murvica Gornja and the town itself and the municipality of Poličnik. In the municipality of Posedarje and Zdralo. However, there is nothing but accept such a proposal because they are on the list of certain settlements. And it's good to come out with a bill like this. We are also familiar with the SDP because these people spoke to us and they said the government had promised them. So the government deceived them, the government lied to them, didn't do it, and several representatives of the HDZ club are now doing it. However, to expose full action, I will not tell the Government, but certain stakeholders who have become involved in the government. This isn't a mistake that happened by accident. The locals discovered it, there were protests. It is obvious that someone there wanted to get their hands on the most valuable territory in Podgradina and in Ruplje, especially in Podgradina. And that should be said openly because it's not possible that the government is so lazy that it couldn't have been found in two years to correct that injustice. So, if it was just a writing mistake, if it was a eror... but that's not the point. The thing was that this was done on purpose and people were stalling. And that's what needs to be put to the end. We support this proposal, but we're talking about this, and this is exactly what we're talking about. They don't have to be the same things and they're not the same things, but they're the logical things that came from the initiative to attach one settlement to the town of Čakovec or Koprivnica to separate for which all the legal assumptions were fulfilled. So also a referendum, i.e. a declaration of citizens and the consent of the need. So it's not about creating new units, it's about new arrangements, or practically, let's talk about new boundaries. However, we have received a response from the government that will be fully resolved by the government. Well, the government hasn't even solved this on a partial basis, and where it would be entirely because it would be an ad calendar Grecas, that means never, unless it changes some of these common issues first and one consensus and one new way of thinking to support everything that's normal, which is logically in the citizens' interest. And this will obviously have to wait for a change of government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65397	Thank you. We have 3 corrections of incorrect allegations. First of all, she's an esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65398	Inaccurately, counterpart Anticevic stated that this was not a random mistake, i.e. someone deliberately committed and supported the duration of this error due to some interest in the land. It would be a good idea if a colleague were to make it concrete and explain in what way, so it's not about the lapsus chalama, it's about the hard intention. I personally, and I don't think anyone in this assembly can figure out how to get to land if one village is called so and in the same municipality or if it just corrects the name of the settlement and stays in the same municipality. If there are doubts about spatial plans, spatial plans are made for the area of one person and if it is not about the place being moved from municipality to municipality, then even that spatial plan cannot have any impact, or it does not go under the spatial plan of another municipality where there could be some dark business.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65399	Thank you. The esteemed representative Nevenka Marinović, a correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65400	Otherwise, it is not the correct quote from counterpart Marinovic that the government has deceived the residents of the region. The government has confirmed in its opinion that it fully resolves the demands of the residents of this region. And as for the fact that someone wanted to get their hands on it, colleague Marinović, you may know, and if you know, then you're bound to tell who it is, who wanted to get to it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65401	No benching.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65402	Tell me who it is, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65403	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65404	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Marinovic said it was obvious that someone there wanted to get their hands on valuable land. I also refer to what Mrs. Marinovic said, I would like to know by name and last name who it is? Perhaps you've been given those names and names unlike the rest of us who submitted this bill. And if you know how to say it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65405	Please don't throw it out of the bench. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative Ivo Grbić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65406	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. The proposed draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalitys in the Republic of Croatia does not propose, I would stress, that the change in the regional structure of the Republic of Croatia is already practically correcting those settlements, i.e. the introduction of certain settlements that have been dropped. In the Zadar County area in particular, in the municipality of Poličnik and Posedarje. I would point out that the existing law in the municipality of Poličnik has listed settlements, including the settlement of Islam Latinski, Rupalj. However, Islam Latin is a particularly independent settlement that is not located at all in the municipality of Poličnik but is located in the municipality of Posedarje. Also, Rupalj is particularly stressed by the independent settlement, so it is in this sense that this should be changed. These are more than the statue of the unit of local self-government specifically of Poličnik Municipality. Also in the municipality of Poličnik, two independent settlements were dropped, namely Gornji Poličnik and Murvica upper. As far as Posedarje Municipality is concerned, Islam Latin belongs in Posedarje Municipality. And this proposal is about to correct the way he enters Posedarje Municipality. And also the statue of the local self-government unit specifically in the case of Posedarje municipality is listed settlements and Ždrilo and Grgurići which are now not in the law. Of course, since those settlements were not taxed in the law, regardless of what units of local self-government were in the statutes required certain difficulties in that area in the sense that they could not exercise certain rights related to certain documents and beliefs, because they were not written by Islam Latin, Islam Latin-Rupalj and vice versa. The one who was in Rupalje was written by Islam's Latin-Rupalje instead of only Rupalje. In this regard, these amendments are also proposed. I would point out that no specific financial resources are needed to amend and supplement this law. And it is also proposed that an emergency procedure be taken into account, as the predecessors pointed out, that we have already passed the Law on the census, population and population of the Republic of Croatia in July 2011 and that this will take place in the period from 1 April to 28 April 2011, and that practically no changes have been made since the beginning of this year. And in that sense, this proposed urgency procedure. Given the above, I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas, Cities, municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65407	Thank you. And we have another debate that's the esteemed representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65408	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Here is the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia in Article 16 under the regular number of 13 Zadar County, item 14. The following settlements of Islam Latin, Part Podgradina, Posedarje, Slivnica and Vinjerac are listed in the following settlements. The area of the municipality of Posedarje, i.e. Article 2(2), is defined as populated areas of the municipality of Islam Latin, Podgradina, Posedarje, Slivnica, Ždrilo, Vinjerac and Grgurice. The same article before that Law on the areas of County, towns and municipalities for the Municipality of Poličnik states that the settlements of Briševo, Dračevac Ninski, Islam Latinski, Dio Rupalj, Lovovac, Murvica, Poličnik, Suhovar and Visoshane. However, the statue of the Municipality of Poličnik has been found to be settlements in the municipality of Briševo, Dračevac Ninski, Gornji Poličnik, Poličnik, Lovnica, Murvica, Murvica Gornja, and Rupalj, Suhovara and Visocani. It is therefore apparent that certain places in the municipality of Poličnik and Posedarje are incorrectly listed in the Law on County, City and City Areas in the Republic of Croatia or that certain settlements are not mentioned at all. As far as the populated areas of Posedarje Municipality are concerned, they are wrongly joined in the name of Islam Latin and Podgradina and in the municipality of Poličnik we heard it already means it is about Islam Latin and part of Rupalja. The misstatement of certain settlements in the municipality of Poličnik and Posedarje and the unnamed all independent settlements in the area of these municipalities have caused dissatisfaction by the citizens of these units of local self-government. So citizens living in the area of Podgradina, the settlements of Ždirlo point out that their settlements are not listed as settlements in the municipality of Posedarje, i.e. Poličnik creates exceptional difficulties with the issue and acquisition of personal documents, beliefs, IDs and the like. Since the census, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia will be implemented next year, knowing that the basis for the implementation of the list is the specific area of units of local self-government i.e. settlements in the area of municipalities and cities, it is estimated that the conditions for the urgent adoption of the proposed law are met in this case. Namely, the problem of non-involvement mainly of Podgradina as an independent settlement of Posedarje Municipality is best witnessed by the locals of Podgradina, who on several occasions pointed to irregularity. Here's the last event occurred last week on December 8th when locals came to the Zadar County building asking that the Subgrade they claim to be '97. The year was deleted from the law and put under Islam Latin again returned to the law and to the map of Croatia as an independent settlement. This is why my appeal to all my colleagues and colleagues to support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65409	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65410	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements...... It doesn't work for you. [[You can't hear it.]] Then give me the key. How? Maybe we could find someplace else to work, for example. But see if it works. Does it work? Well, you see. Okay, so let's go to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. It was an emergency procedure for P.Z.E. No. 665. Proposers Ana Lovrin and Ivo Grbić, Nevenka Marinović and Branko Kutija. The debate is closed. The government of the Republic of Croatia supported the adoption of this Act. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted by most votes, 115 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65411	We move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primacy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 668 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. A businessman. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65412	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. So, in 2008, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law of Reception and let me give you some information on this. In the EU, however, most professions are regulated, but only a certain number of professions are regulated at EU level by Directive 36 of 2005, in which the seven professions are regulated, 5 of them are healthy. However, health professions are also a profession of midwives. In the Republic of Croatia, we have a primal profession as prescribed by the directive and we have not had it. Because the directive clearly and loudly indicates that the recipient must have completed at least 3 years of undergraduate studies from the primacy and must have the powers of recipients that are completely different. This means first he must have his own work, must have work without direct supervision by any other profession, even if it is a medical profession. According to this in 2008, the Croatian Parliament was then pictured for the purpose of respecting the Law on Primacy, which this Parliament adopted. After the adoption of the Law on Primacy in the Republic of Croatia, a graduate study was opened, a undergraduate study at the University of Rijeka and the first recipient this year and completed the study, so they graduated and received the first grade. In the course of negotiations with the European Union, a question has been raised regarding the tradition that exists in Croatia, which is the secondary primary schools and people and women who have graduated from the mid-prime school and who have worked as recipients in our maternity homes, in health homes, in departments where, regardless of the existence of tradition, this tradition has not been followed by further education so that in some cases you have had the completion of schooling, meaning finishing high school while a number of recipients graduated from the Higher School for Nurses in order to obtain a possible further education. We've solved the adoption law here, we've set up a clear distinction and we've said that all those who have completed high school, traineeship and passed a professional exam that there are recipients assistants and continue their work in the Republic of Croatia as they have done so so far. And those who after that finish three years of pre-graduate studies become first-graders and have the right to work on their own. In accordance with the directive, when all these are, therefore, all of this which I have stated when it happened and when all the conditions are met, you have before you an amendment and addition of the Law on Recipients, which in two articles clearly distinguishes the competences and activities of the recipient of the assistant and the recipient, which I am now talking about. This means precisely what the recipient assistant has in the work, and what the recipient of the first grade. In order to bring it a little closer to you and explain it, the recipient assistant always works on the team. It could be a team with a doctor specialist gynecologist, and it could be a midwife team. While the recipient is the leader of the team, it means the Primal team where the team is therefore the recipient of the first-graders and the recipient of assistants. That's the fundamental difference. It is clear that the question has always been raised and that the question has been raised during the debate and with the profession, whether it will give quality, whether it will reduce the quality of the Republic of Croatia and anything else, is clearly said not. Because it's just a point of view where it's said this: the recipient of a first-rate child who has received both co-determined competences and her competence must not have a pathology education but a physiology education, which means when the recipient is leading a certain pregnancy, she has to know how to recognise a normal pregnancy. All that is not the normal pregnancy that she means does not recognise as a normal pregnancy is required to refer to a gynecologist for further examination and pregnancy management. This is therefore an approach as provided for by this law, and in practice in Croatia, hospital work systematizations are provided exactly and we call it a whole new profession in the Republic of Croatia, a job according to these qualifications. On the basis of the debate in the Committee on Legislatives, the proposed amendment which would turn the expression of jurisdiction into an expression of activity and on the part of the proposings, we can accept the amendment because by adopting the Law on Recipients in 2008 we accepted that Croatia's primacy is one of the health activities. And accordingly, this level is the level that has been automatically recognised in Europe, which means all the days of Croatia's entry into the European Union, all those who have completed this three-year pre-graduate study receive a European profession and can work in any Member State of the European Union without any obstacles, as well as all recipients who have completed a three-year undergraduate study in any Member State of the European Union can also work in the Republic of Croatia. For any further reasons, we are at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65413	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65414	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Primacy in Croatia has a long tradition, nurses won't like what I'm about to say, longer tradition than sisterhood. The monument first known was discovered in Solina... from ancient times, and the first course, the first Privilege courses were held by the Varazdin physician Ivan Baptizer Lalans in the 18th century and even issued a manual for women of the village who were engaged in this demanding work called "Short teaching from the mestore village". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the oldest school of primary school was founded in 1786 in Rijeka, but it lasted only one year and there it ended, but there's one very nice news, that maybe 15 days ago in the same river she graduated the first recipient from that study in Rijeka and of course we congratulate her from this place. In the meantime, a few more graduates, as far as I know. In 1821, the first primary school began in Zadar, and then the entire province of Dalmatia had only one primate. It is especially important to me to mention on my heart those midwives who worked within primary protection teams, the midwives we called, had various nicknames, etc. One of them gave birth to me, thank God and I'm here, I'm healthy, thank God. But why am I saying that, so before we show them the respect they've done so hard and responsible work with a small number of complications. And secondly, I want to say one other thing, that in our country, 99% of births are carried out in maternity homes, hospitals, and in one Netherlands, 33%, 33% is done in a house that speaks of availability, I would say the quality of our health care, and perital mortality has been halved in our country for the last 15 years. Therefore, in those circumstances, in 2008, a Reception Act was adopted which was spoken by the State Secretary and he respected this Directive 36/2005, but in the area he more focused in some way on the recognition of those professional qualifications if you remember. We talked about it in this High House. Of course he was talking about certain standards etc. And now, in order to further comply with European Union legislation, it is also before us to respect this directive in some way to specify the work of recipients in the field of competence of their, part-round work and education of professional training. That's how I would understand it, interpret it because it's directly related to Chapter 3. - Freedom to provide services. Therefore, the same legal proposal accurately states what Mr. Secretary of State is determined by the authority of the recipient. In particular, he stressed the differences between assistant recipients and first-rate recipients. But I'm just gonna mention one more time who they are. Therefore, the recipient, within their competences, determines pregnancy, lead to physiological pregnancy and childbirth at all levels of health care, determines any pathological changes in pregnancy and delivery to be notified to the physician. As part of the health team, the recipient participates in the monitoring of pathological pregnancy and delivery in the operational completion of delivery. The primates carry out the first supply of newborns, conduct supervision of a healthy newborn, and monitor the condition of the mother after delivery. And an important part of primal competence concerns women's education in order to maintain health, prevention of sexually transmitted diseases, family planning and reproductive health, etc. Furthermore, the legislative proposal also contains solutions which therefore establish the standard of education for recipients by taking the provisions of the directive and harmonising with domestic legislation. Therefore, the same legislative proposal regulates that the primary education of assistant recipients is obtained by successful completion of vocational education for the occupation of the recipient of assistants in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Republic of Croatia. And the basic education of the first-grader of the primacy is achieved by the successful completion of the postgraduate study for the occupation of the first-grader in accordance with the current regulations of the Republic of Croatia, which I spoke about in Rijeka. So, I believe that with these amendments and additions, they will in any case still be complemented and completed and more precisely established this important area of primacy and will therefore be supported by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65415	Thank you. Dear Representative Boris Klemenic on behalf of the HSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. According to the latest data, 2070 recipients who would practically say 24 hours a day care for pregnant women, births and newborns are reported by doctors about all changes and participate in a number of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. For years, the interest of recipients in Croatia has been neglected, marginalized and almost forgotten even to such an extent that many do not even know the exact meaning of the words of the recipient, which are her duties and what exactly does the person call it. It implies an extremely noble action, and it is receiving life in its own hands at the moment of coming into the world. Therefore, it is almost incomprehensible to ignore such an important profession that employees can have an immeasurable impact on the course of someone’s life because their adequate education, high school education, practice, their recognition in society create preconditions for forming a desirable number of competent, responsible and prepared people. In October 2008, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Reception, which determines the activity and part-rounding of the work of the recipients, and for the first time in our recent history, the recipient is a recognised profession. At the beginning of 2009, a Croatian Chamber of Primates was established to carry out expert supervision of the work of recipients and a unique register of recipients was established in Croatia, which, with the rest, allows for the proper performance of the work under valid license. Until recently in Croatia, there was no high school for the recipient, or primacy study. The last generation of highly educated midwives was educated back in 1982. The shortcomings made are corrected by the 2008 law and the legislative proposal in question, which is before us, harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, so the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of professional qualifications in the section relating to the education and competence of the recipient. The proposed law accurately determines the work of the recipients and prescribes the conditions for the necessary multidisciplinary approach in the performance of this activity. The area of the right to independent work, the competence of the professional chamber and the Head of the Primal Care Team shall also be governed. In addition to a unique approach in the basic education of recipients, which includes the prescribed minimum regular training, education is also prescribed in pre-graduate studies, and further training. This profession has been neglected for years, but a lack and inadequate attitude towards recipients have been observed, and this legislative proposal also seeks to remove the observed shortcomings. The HSS Club sees this Act as an additional option for the appropriate positioning of the profession of the recipient in society as an opportunity to eliminate the negative attitude of other health professions towards an independent primacy to create a proper and positive picture in the public, to educate the professional teaching staff, and to truly provide support for certain state institutions, not only at a declarative level. The vision is to train highly educated recipients and have independent primacy in the Republic of Croatia. In order to achieve this vision, it is necessary to achieve certain objectives such as putting the profession of primacy in the right place, which will happen after systematic information and education, and after adapting to the standards of the European Union. Encouraging systematic education, developing institutional mechanisms and strengthening institutional and financial capacities is a step towards this achievement, and this also allows us to adopt this Act. In the end, the HSS Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65417	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65418	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a colleague from HDZ Milinovic, and he began with the history of primacy. I would only supplement him if Socrates' mother were a midwife. Also, in Rome, it was worth the effort of course. And I will also mention Dubrovnik, which has always preceded the organization of social care. You know that's where the first orphanage was founded. However, it is an orphanage after a certain time turned into a maternity home, just the birthplace for carefree children. So much for history. This Law actually, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primacy with a final proposal will the SDP on behalf of the Club we will support. But I have to ask myself who it's going to apply to here. In fact, it will take many years for it to be fully applied, because it should be applied to a piece that is trained according to European standards. That's exactly why I'm going to say a few sentences about education. For the purposes of Croatian health care, four generations of senior recipients at the higher medical school in Zagreb have been educated, however, there has been a interruption of the continued secondary education of the recipients, and to the insistence of the profession and the doctor it often happens occasionally, according to the needs, or according to the needs of local health care. It was soon actually seen after that interruption that yet the lack of this frame was great, and that is why it was in '91. A re-opened school for recipients in Zagreb, however, unfortunately only high school, and further schooling is disabled by the absence of a higher school. However, in Europe, it is a very different situation, the recipient independently leads to orderly pregnancy and childbirth, caring for the newborn, of course if complications occur they are part of the team. Of course, we did not have it in our health system, so most often pregnant women only met their midwife at birth. We hope, of course, that this will be no more, because by entering the European Union, of course, we must change the laws, and so is this coordination today. This legislative proposal aligns the meaning of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, and this legislative proposal adopts the provisions of the European Parliament and of the Council Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications in the section relating to the education and competence of recipients. Also, the recipient within their competences determines, in fact, the law now lists all these competences. As far as I'm concerned, I think there's a lot of indiscretion, and that practice will show what it is. Among other things, any pathological changes in pregnancy and childbirth should be determined, which should be told by the doctor. A moment ago, Mr. Secretary said that there was no need to know pathology, or physiology, that he had to know the physiological pregnancy, but the question is whether or not he would, or who would be in charge if something went wrong? An important part of primal competence also applies to the education of women in order to preserve health, for the purpose of prevention, and of course I welcome it in order to also sexually transmitted diseases, family planning, means that their work can be extended to the wider than maternity. Then it is listed as part of a health care team of recipients involved in monitoring pathological pregnancy and delivery, and in the operational completion of delivery, but of course this is part of the health team. The primates also carry out the first supply of newborns, monitor the healthy newborn, monitor the condition of the mother after delivery. Of course, this is all acceptable. The conditions for granting, granting or withdrawing the authorisation for the independent work of recipients are prescribed by the General Act of the Croatian Chamber of Primaries. I would also refer to Articles 4, 5 and 6. Article 4 states that the Head of the Primal Care Team is defined in Article 14, which is the recipient who has completed at least pre-graduate studies and which is, of course, registered in the register at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and who is of course granted an authorisation for independent work. Afterwards, primal care as a member of the team, a member of the health team in primary health care, is also carried out by the recipient who is also registered in the register and who has been granted an authorisation for independent work. Article 5 provides that the right to work on its own, as I said before, under the jurisdiction of certain of this law, is meant by the recipient of the assistant, it is... completed with a secondary school, i.e. the first grade of the primacy, that is three years older, the professional study we mentioned earlier is only in Rijeka, i.e. the Master of Primacy, and, of course, which is registered register which has been approved for independent work. [[You don't understand.]] Article 4 provides for the competences of the recipients of the assistant and the recipient. I hope that the curricula of education will be such that it will make competent recipients, which will satisfy all these competences that are given. Today someone congratulated the first midwives who had graduated from the University of Rijeka, congratulations and from me, and her and the other 6 colleagues who had completed this professional study, who would actually get confirmation, which will actually equalize this call with some European standards. It is the first generation of the first grade primacy in the history of Croatian maternity. It is one of the potential future jobs of recipients with a degree in us, and that is because there is a growing trend and desire for mothers to give birth at home. Of course, entering the European Union will pave the way for the realization of birth at home, and thus for the labour market for the education of the recipient, as Mr. Secretary of State said earlier. It means that this diploma is essentially a work permit that is valid throughout the European Union. Recently in Split, a university survey was held in Split where colleges and newly established colleges of health studies were actually presented, it is a new programme for hosthood. Therefore, the University of Split will be the first in Croatia to make such a study, which meets all the requirements of the European Union, which is why I said at the beginning we are adopting the law, I just wonder it will take a long time for it to be applied, i.e. to be applicable properly. So that would be a university program education, that's what I was saying to that little girl, who I hope will be so professional and wider in the university program that it will satisfy all the competences that are listed in this law. So, that we're going to have, they're going to have a sure-fire progress in the profession of graduate, postgraduate studies, which, of course, speaks for the primacy so that it can continue to develop. Here, the following school year will be possible for the study of 60 students, and as far as the criteria are concerned, students with a completed 4-year-old, any 4-year-old school will be able to attend. And as far as Rijeka is concerned, it was a professional study, and it was supposed to be high school, so it was supposed to be high school. So I think it's gonna take time for this law to come to life and, as far as birth in the house is concerned, it's gonna take the same amount of birth with the midwives, and I keep going back to our grandmother's name, rather than the midwives. I think it's going to take a lot of work to raise awareness of the popularization and delivery in the house and it's going to take some time to gain confidence. However, I would mention today another reality, which is that 15 recipients are waiting, 15 recipients from 3 maternity homes that are closed – Sinj, Makarska, Imotski, waiting for Minister Milinovic's decision, waiting for the fate of what will be with them. It has been promised, but nothing is known yet. Maybe today you'll get some answers from the secretary of state. I'm just going to tell you about the sonic birthplace, the extra hospital's largest maternity home in Sinj, where there were 270 births, and before that was 350. For comparison, the General Hospital in Knin has 170 births where they have all the conditions, both the O.R. and everything. Therefore, these midwives await the minister's promise to equip and edit the premises for these three maternity homes. The question is, now they're still in the system, but according to my knowledge, new systematicization is moving, the question is what with them. I talked to my colleagues in Sinj, and they're women who are about 20, 25 years old, which will be with them. And I'm thinking that by closing the maternity ward, the minister has reduced the scientific standard of pregnant women who actually don't know how many of them this law concerns. Here, in conclusion I can say we support this law. As far as this educational part is concerned, I think there's still time to educate all these professions that are mentioned in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65419	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65420	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, very briefly. I think this is a law that we're all going to agree to accept, that needs to be implemented as soon as possible. That's certainly what the HNS-HSU will do when they vote. Why? Because this is a harmonisation with European standards on professional qualifications. What's important is that this time we seem to be on time in this area. I agree with the observation that we may not be doing everything ideally, but in time we recognized that EU standards and requirements in this area are far higher than those we have, we opened the study in time. This study here today already kicks out the first midwives in line with the European plan and programme of teaching, which is good. What you might add here, with what my colleagues have already said before, is that biomedicine and health care are the areas where things change the fastest, the technologies that are the fastest and the best. Prevention measures are constantly improving, diagnostic procedures are increasingly sensitive, increasingly specific, therapeutic protocols are also becoming more quality. In order to make this clearly useful in practice, it is not unusual, then, colleagues and colleagues, that the EU is seeking in some areas a slightly higher degree of education of individual staff than it has been in us so far. This is one of those areas. I think that the amendments and amendments to the law are absolutely acceptable, in Article 2 we are talking about clear problems, i.e. regulation of education issues. In Articles 4, 5 and 6, we discuss competences. What we may not have touched is something else, which is whether it's enough to just educate through four semesters or six semesters of a person and say it now is enough and stop there. No, it is necessary to permanently educate, permanently monitor changes in the field of biomedicine and therefore it is very good that we also formed the Croatian Chamber of Primaries in time. This chamber will certainly ensure that members and members of that chamber are also permanently educated in accordance with the latest achievements of the profession, or science. What is another improvement in the law is Article 6, so a very detailed list of all the responsibilities of the recipient, i.e. first the responsibilities of the assistant, later the responsibilities of the recipient. You can see from these two lists that those more complex, clearly, methods, more complex searches can do only primates, and not the recipient assistants. So here we see that the Proposer has transferred what Europe is asking of us and that, accordingly, we will clearly have the opportunity to be absolutely sure that the persons who are going to do certain procedures are for this and fully competent, trained and trained. In order for someone to become a member of the Chamber of Receivers, he or she must pass the traineeship and pass a clear professional exam. These are two details that we didn't talk about either, and that's certainly good. And for that reason, all in all, I don't think we can find any particular objection to this proposal to amend and supplement the law, and for that reason, the HNS-HSU club will absolutely support it. Thank you very much. So, the law talked more about the duties of recipients relating to something that I would say is more technical than it is related to diagnostic, medical or professional treatment of recipients. Thus, the law left the dilemma and doubt about the most important thing the law had to regulate, so what diagnostic and therapeutic actions the recipient was obliged to do and for which he would be held accountable. I believe that every conscientious and responsible recipient just wanted to read it in the law briefly, clearly, unequivocally and tactfully. And the introduction of a new article like Mr. Secretary of State suggested is good, positive and commendable. So that's something that the Law we discussed at the end of 2008. In this respect, the law is an improvement compared to the previous law. The authority or activity of the recipient of the assistant as well as the recipient is defined and, as I said, very precise and very specific. Maybe there's a little room left for polymizing around those competencies. The law states that the recipient determines possible pathological changes in pregnancy and childbirth, that in urgent cases, Mr. Secretary of State may lead the birth to the task, do manual explosion and evacuation of the womb, that he may do an episyotomy, that he is part of a medical team involved in the monitoring of pathological pregnancy and childbirth. It's not clear enough who makes this team, so who's on that health team, the midwife, and who else? If these are two assistant recipients, then it's not good because we're talking about pathological delivery. So, this kind of looks like the list we have in the Netherlands legislation, which doesn't necessarily have to be bad, but we must not forget that the recipients have been schooled there for five years and that they have almost two years of practice after college. So you can't pull the parallel. If we intend to assume the authority of the recipient in the Netherlands, then it would be correct to enable, through the system of education, all the knowledge and competences that it acquires to acquire and our recipient. I think that's very important. Otherwise we could say that pathological pregnancy, epithiotomy, etc. They could and should have stayed in the care of the doctor because if you consider that the recipient is three years old, so she is three years old and has the right to monitor pathological delivery and to perform episyotomy, compare this with a doctor who had to finish his studies for six years, a year of practice and four years of specialisation. So it's 11 years old, 11 years of education for something the recipient will be able to do with a 3-year professional study. I don't think that's good. And maybe now we're passing a law on the future. I would certainly appeal to take care of the acquisition of these competences, the education and the acquisition of skills that the recipient must have, must acquire in order to be responsible and conscious and, most importantly, without complications to implement or act in accordance with the powers conferred upon it by this law. The infant mortality isn't a joke. Today we are proud of the fact that at the level of Croatia, we have the mortality of newborns 5 to 6 permeates, in my city is in particular 4.5, and this is significantly, significantly lower compared to the European average. So we're very highly positioned in the protection of pregnant women and newborns, our mortality is very low. So I appeal that this fact does not change, and that will be possible only if we allow quality schooling, so quality practice and the acquisition of all competences, skills, knowledge that the recipient could indeed carry out all the activities that the law allows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65421	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65422	Thank you very much. So here's a colleague, you've mentioned one thing well about this good percentage or a small percentage of mortality in Croatia as regards both newborns and pregnant women. Unfortunately, in our health care, we often had the principle of working on a system of attempts and mistakes. When it comes to the abolition of, say, the Croatian Institute for Health Protection at Work, it is one institution and in principle there is no consequence in terms of life and death. However, this is a very sensitive topic and a shift to worse in every sense would be devastating for Croatia. This is not a subject where you can go through a system of trials and mistakes because this can kill both the mother and the child. So, I sincerely hope that these provisions that are now, these changes that are now happening in this law, are based on some indicators in Europe, the world, which are saying that there will be no significant breach of quality, but here I am, because of my conscience, I have a need here once again to stress that I have a skeptic in that way of working.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65423	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65424	Yeah, what's good is this law can't live right now. He can't live right now because he just doesn't have anyone to refer to. At this point, we have 10 recipients who have completed a three-year professional study, so it can't significantly change the system. Good luck, yeah. However, I return to education again, to competences, skills and knowledge, infant mortality is low precisely because of a good system and good organisation. We mustn't disturb it at all. Another detail that I don't like too much, which a little bit wakes up the skeptic, which is the part that concerns the recipient of the assistant. The recipients of assistants do not, in fact, exist in the European Union. So it's kind of our version now, our kind of thing I wouldn't want to be a group of little inventions. So, mid-school mid-school mid-school, a person at 18 will have responsibilities that are related to childbirth, to childbirth. I don't think that's good, but I hope that as long as we live up to everything together, the system will sort of adapt and improve compared to what we have right now. It'd be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65425	Thank you. And distinguished representative Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here in a few basic lines I would refer to this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Reception and in fact I would like to remind myself of something that the recipients themselves have said to the Croatian Association of Primal Association and the Croatian Chamber of Primaries, on the occasion of World Primal Day, which is marked in May. This year, therefore, a national campaign to promote natural approaches in pregnancy and childbirth began this year, and the recipients themselves warned that primacy as the oldest medical profession to provide professional help to women during birth in Croatia was marginalized and neglected and the recipients also warned that the health system in Croatia was so organized that women can't actually get to the reception during pregnancy someone met by coming to the maternity home. In this way, they are deprived of the opportunity to work with pregnant women and to prepare for birth and breastfeeding. The primary role of the recipient is actually to support the natural birth. In Croatia, however, there is no such thing because in most birth homes the recipient herself says birth is subordinated to the procedures that seek to speed it up. The recipients became nurses who oversee modern technological equipment and implement the provisions of a doctor without whom they say they are not allowed to give a woman a glass of water. The recipient also notes that every birthplace in Croatia is equipped for a natural, physiological birth and that, of course, it should be managed by professional staff. It has been shown that the medical model of birth management, which standardly offers almost all Croatian births, interferes with normal physiological birth processes and future mother-child relationship, and the problem is that Croatia has the lowest percentage of breast-feeding in Europe. The Association of Primates warned that the recipients had recently been deprived of higher education, because in Croatia so far, until the establishment of this professional study at the Faculty of Medicine in Rijeka, they could actually be educated only at secondary school level and it was a unique case in Europe, and therefore they rejoiced that from the next academic year and at the Faculty of Health Studies in Split, university study of primacy, and of course, changes and promotion are very important because they will be able to choose a recipient who will soon follow and advise her during pregnancy and after childbirth. It is also important to say that national policy to promote gender equality as measure 632, therefore measures 632 relating to the creation of a comprehensive Programme for Humanisation of Birth, which means the adoption of guidelines for natural birth, the promotion of physiological birth, and the education of women and health workers and workers on patient rights in order to increase women's participation in the decision to give birth. However, even though the implementation deadline was actually expired three years ago, this measure has not actually been implemented in the greatest possible sense. So, I am very supportive of the fact that from now on recipients will be educated at a higher level, that they will have greater opportunities for education and specialization, because here we have heard that the level of education for the recipient has so far been inexplicably low. Therefore, the proposal to amend the Law lists a clear part of the work, harmonizes with Directive 36/2005 and clearly clarifies competences. However, until the first generation of first-graders is educated, I also warn that it will be really difficult to leave the medical competences and domains so that teams at secondary healthcare level should actually be organised to assist recipients during this transitional period. I will conclude that, therefore, in most countries Europe, women have the right to choose who will lead the pregnancy and give birth to it, and I therefore think that this right should have women in the Republic of Croatia as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65427	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Honorable Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65428	Mr. Vice President, thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I would finally thank you for today's discussion, but I feel the need, we simply have to give a few answers and a few clarifications about all of this being said today. So, first of all, I have to make it clear and loud that when one data is given it was good to give another information. Namely, the first birthplace in Sinj. It is true 270 children were born in 2009, but also 270 children from Sinj were born in Split because only 50% of children were born in Sinj. Why was that? For a purely simple reason that everything that was least suspected could be complicated was urgently sent to Split to avoid an incident, because the sonic birthplace did not have the conditions for delivery, such as Kninski had. But it's also said more than once in public, so I'm going to do it again. The son’s birthplace is in the process of restoration, and the son’s birthplace as well as the other birthplaces will have conditions. In addition, as soon as the conditions of the son’s maternity home are met, the recipients found in Sinj will be able to work at that same maternity home. What remains as the last may be a problem to solve or a spatial one, means the O.R. and everything else is solved. What will be the last problem will be the problem with the staff, but the problem is in the resolution phase so I can gladly tell you to stay calm. Son won't lose his birthplace. However, in the second part of the debate, which was said that when the law was passed, there was criticism of the profession. I'll ask the question if we've introduced a new occupation which is a profession. Whether it was considered a medical profession or considered a primal profession. Because this law was just made with midwives that were then at the level of the high school that received this law and the chamber, and these competencies that were not then put into law I will remind you and I said so and then because they were ongoing talks with the European Union. Therefore, in Chapter 3 of the negotiations, this Law as well as the other laws was to be adopted. This was the condition of opening and closing the chapter. However, we also negotiated then, and these were the active negotiations on this chapter 3 where we saw, among other things, that there would be transitional provisions, that rights acquired would be resolved. I will remind you in the same way there was a solution for nurses at the moment, because the Republic of Croatia after the second and third enlargement of the first state that received that nurses in the Republic of Croatia with completed medium professional training have the right to the status of nurses in the European Union. Therefore, when we negotiated, we could not distinguish and there was no such screaming about such a law as we want to show here today, please there are also records from the debate, and the Croatian recipient association, i.e. the Croatian recipient association was preparing this law with us at the time. I agree that Croatia's primacy was neglected, that's what I said in my opening statement, because it was running from left to right so we had a gynecological... Sisters so we had various expressions, various situations that were, but this was only one of the right ways to solve this problem, and as you can see in the law not only of the first degree, but we are just raising the primacy to the level of complete meaning of university study, Master of Primacy, etc., we are allowing the further development of this profession. [[You don't understand.]] The curriculum that was made at the Rijeka University for a three-year study, a curriculum that passed the European Union review to see if this curriculum satisfies, I can say with some real satisfaction that it satisfies, and as such certainly satisfies the minimum of this directive, but that does not mean that we should settle for it, surely we need to invest much more in moving forward and to get to the position from which we say next, nor has 11 years of specialist gynaecologists been educated to perform an episyotomy, nor will it take so much education to make this operation. gynecologists within my profession, I will make it clear because it was said that gynecologists have been educated for years, and that we in this law have predicted that someone who gets a three-year professional study is doing a certain procedure. That's why I'm giving it a little bit of a cartoon, but I say clearly and loudly a certain level of medical competence, it's long since passed from the hands of a doctor of medicine to certain professions that have received education for it. The primates may be one of the most eclectic examples, but I will remind you today many diagnostic and therapeutic procedures are done at the level of nurses first graders, medical radiologists, and many others in the medical profession. It'll be the future and this. And finally I will repeat once again, this law was passed and in 2008 according to the five laws we passed to comply with the directive, so 36/05 with Croatian legislation for the introduction of the directive, and in those laws we have already left two things. One thing is the Primari Act, and the other is the Sisterhood Act, which will soon also propose amendments and additions to get here before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65429	Thank you. Honorable representative Romana Jerkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65430	No, no, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65431	You've shown a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65432	Okay, it could be. Excuse me, won't you respect?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65433	Then it's a correction to an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65434	I turned the wrong way, so it's the same tile.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65435	I have to say the one she really turned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65436	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. ... Secretary of State. [[Because of a loud announcement, the payphone is not understood.]] The first time he says we didn't have a bile debate in October 2008 and the opposition didn't criticise the law. It's not true. You have to look at the phonogram and you will see that the opposition's key observation was that you did not state the competences of this law. That's the first one. Secondly, you said that gynecologist during his education schooling didn't, so he doesn't get the knowledge to perform an epizootomy. So I don't know what your professions are, are you a lawyer or a construction engineer? Because I don't even know what to say to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65437	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65438	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primacy. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 668. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primacy. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 113 votes, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65439	Now we'll skip a few points that we don't have the conditions, by saying right away that with the 11th point, which is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 670, because there's a large number of people reported, and then we decided to leave tomorrow. And now we move to point 14, which is - - Proposal for a Decision on the List of Legal Persons of Special State Interest Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government has proposed this decision on the basis of Article 11(7). Law to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. You received the proposal by mail, the debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear Paul Matičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65440	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties requires that officials cannot be members of administrations or supervisory committees, or boards of directors of commercial companies, and that they may, exceptionally, be up to two administrative councils of institutions, i.e. external funds, which are of particular national interest. The same law requires that the Croatian Parliament determines the list of legal persons of special national interest on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In order to implement the provisions, certain provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, as well as certain provisions of the Law on the procedure for the handover of authorities, the Government proposes a decision on the list of legal persons of particular national interest, which contains a list of companies of particular national interest, a list of institutions of special state interest, and a list of extra-financial funds of particular state interest, means that the difference is compared to the situation so far, since the Croatian Parliament has so far established a list of only companies of particular national interest. Accordingly, the government proposes to establish this decision with a list of legal persons of particular national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65441	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65442	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Pensioners will surely support this Proposal for a List of Legal Persons of Special State Interest, because it is very important that this decision is constantly revised, it is important that this decision must be revised because the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties is directly related to this list, as well as the Law on the handover of authorities. I say it is important to constantly revise the decision in accordance with organisational changes, in accordance with the pooling, the funding, agencies, companies, so at least once a year everything that happens during the year must be re-reciprocated and audited. This list we have is actually an indirect inventory of the remaining wealth of the Republic of Croatia, of course without real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia or certain ministries. It is 63 companies, 97 institutions and 5 extra budget funds and, of course, our interest should be that these companies and institutions as well as extra budget funds are primarily making progress, developing and having a positive business. When I mentioned a positive business, then I can't say no matter what it is today, this topic was a few days ago in front of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, but it is worth reminding that the fundamental problem of these 63 companies, 97 institutions and 5 extra budget funds, someone more than someone, but the problem is responsible management and positive business and no less important conservation of natural resources over which these institutions, i.e. companies have either concessions or in some form cover them, or manage them. In the government's approach to corporate governance, institutions are dominated by the rule of regulation and a restrictive approach which is not good. Namely, how do you say, how do you explain it? The receipt of management is not related to the positive business of the company, i.e. the institution as well as to the mandate or to the termination of the term of office of members of the administration due to poor business. It is a demoting situation for the growth and progress of these companies and institutions. The basis for future responsible management must be laid down in advance by public criteria on which management structures must operate, and any deviation shall also mean a change in management, i.e. management structure. I was fortunate to discuss the management of Italian shipbuilding that had been in place since the 1980s until when it was squirming in the losses of the state took their debts as a public debt and set strict rules for games that everyone had to adhere to. So they went so far as to not give a single lira, or a single euro later, to resuscitate their business in terms of what is known to us in terms of the payment of contributions to health, pension or in some way the lending of salaries. They never gave a single lira, or a single euro for that, but gave a subsidy to the purchase of new technologies. So, for the growth and progress of these companies and that's important, that's that significant difference. Secondly, their management was never of those years when they drew the line that they could no longer do so, their management was never local management. So, if the shipyard is in Naples, then it's usually management, the board president was from Trieste. This may seem insignificant, but it is obviously very important when a highly developed industrial country sets such criteria. In addition, in the operation of such a shipyard, the Director-General could not admit one hour of subsequent work without the signature of the Office of Methods and Procedures. So, that some things were resolved in the beginning by setting up a system of responsible management so that later they would have no problem ever resuscitating such shipyards. We could certainly learn much from such responsible management. And a team more and especially because to repair the situation in all these companies, I have set only an example of shipbuilding, but this can be done in some way under such an example can be subdued by every national park here which is both Croatian roads and the Port Authority and Airport. Therefore, all of them can almost be subjected to one such rule of responsible management, and all because in order to repair any damage or damage to these companies and state institutions they must give taxpayers money, and it is the obligation of the state to exercise systematic control of the management of legal persons because of the particular state interest so that this money of taxpayers should not be spent on their business, but on much more useful state functions, such as education, health care or all that is important to all taxpayers. So, what I'm saying is, in the end, we need to make such a management system where no one has the right to waste taxpayers' money without reason and irresponsibly. The HNS-HSU Club will certainly support this proposal for a decision because of its essence, therefore, because it is necessary to revise that list every year, not because of the satisfaction of the situation in these companies, institutions, or extra-financial funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65443	Thank you. And one individual debate, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65444	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It seems that the point is small and irrelevant, and it's not small, and it's certainly not even irrelevant, something the colleagues of Hrelja started talking about, so I would actually like to continue on that part. My colleagues and colleagues seem to have at least 3 in our country, so almost fetishes that the nation is almost unspeakably following. One of them is an argument of EU accession, if something is because of the EU, then we all accept it and do not question it. The other one is such a dreary one that can fall under the autonomy of the university and the independence of the judiciary, for example. And the third is that waist actually knows business. My colleagues and colleagues in small countries, in small communities such as Croatia our professions are small and ours are simply all people who know each other. And in this respect, there is always a profession that will write for policy purposes that is something professional even though for this very often there is no professional basis. The direct motivation to amend the adoption of this amended list is, in fact, an amendment to the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Officials, which stipulates that public officials should not be on supervisory committees, administrative or any other management bodies of companies listed in this list. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues what does that really mean? As a result, the law has also been amended for these companies that are all on the list that are very important, in which a lot of public money is being invested, public competitions are being examined, and then they are chosen by the most professional people based on the public tender. I ask you colleagues and colleagues one of those examples that happens to us because they must not be officials who, by the way, are politically responsible, not only politically but also materially through the budget, we appoint the supervisory board of the financial agency a graduate journalist. Of course, it is not her qualification to be a member of the financial agency supervisory board that she is a graduate journalist, the lady is the president of the youth of one of our political parties, the lady works in the Public Relations Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If that's how we understand the professional management of public companies where public money is available, then it's better that we put our colleagues and colleagues inside. Under the cover of expertise, we are actually suffering loyal party personnel who are less professional than these ministers who have otherwise proved quite unprofessional in performing public office in public enterprises. That's the first thing we need to demystify here. It's another thing. I think it's undeniable and multiple times we've been here in Parliament saying our government ministers have a political responsibility for the situation in their portfolio that then extends to all state-owned companies or should expand that goes along with its portfolio. Croatian railways, Croatian highways, Croatian roads, shipyards, Privatisation Fund etc. These are all companies that I believe we can agree on is not something to say so, we can let out of our hands for at least two reasons, first of all from the amount of public money that we invest in these companies and for which it corresponds to the people in the executive government, i.e. we here in Parliament who have sworn that we will bring the budget and worry about spending public money. I ask you colleagues and colleagues how the state can implement its policy, state policy in the Croatian highways or at any shipyard or do not know in... e.g. If there's just no one there who's responsible for the state there, if we put the graduated press president of the youth there. It's not a good job for the state and it doesn't guarantee good public money management. Therefore, this list of companies is not a banal topic that should be adopted for these or those formal reasons. It has great political significance on the issue of political responsibility and responsibility for spending public money. And I would like to get an answer here from Mr. Secretary of State for these companies listed here how we as the Croatian Parliament can control their business or spend the money they receive from the budget. It is our constitutional obligation as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, if we go this way through the contest I fear we have lost but absolute every lever or instrument to do so. And question number two. If these are colleagues and colleagues of companies of particular national interest, can they agree that in them the state is exercising its special state interest? If there's no governing rights or supervisory powers. So it seems to me that in almost 20 years of Croatian maturity, we had to get over and some of the children's to say that I repeat the word fetish or infatuation with general principles when in practice we can't do what we're supposed to do, but also to the Government. I repeat two fundamental reasons for the criteria of using public money and other political responsibility for what is happening in these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65445	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65446	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the List of Legal Persons of Special State Interest. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I give the vote: Proposal for a Decision on a list of legal persons of special national interest. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The motion for a decision was accepted by the majority of 110 votes for, one abstention and one against, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65447	Now we move to point 13, that is - Proposal for a Law on the Hire and Sale of Business Space, first reading, P.Z. No 672 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Damir Kontrec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65448	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable MPs before you are the Proposal for a Law on the Hire and Sale of Business Space in First Reading. I must point out that the government is proposing a new law since the law so far has been changed three times. In 2004, the name of the law was also changed so that the Law on Rental was added to the sale of business space. In the meantime, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in cooperation with the City of Zagreb launched an initiative to amend the applicable Law on the rental and sale of business space in such a way as to enable small economy entities as tenants to purchase a business space owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government, in accordance with the same procedure and the same conditions as for tenants in the business space owned by the Republic of Croatia. This legislative proposal allows current tenants, i.e. users of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia municipalities, cities and counties and the City of Zagreb, who regularly fulfil their obligations under the terms of the five-year use of this space and with the required exceptions to the purchase of these areas, subject to the conditions and procedure of the prescribed law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the decisions of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. I must point out that, with regard to the sale of a business space owned by those public-legal bodies, this legislative proposal only gives public-legal bodies the possibility of selling a business space owned by them, on the basis of publicly published lists of business premises which are the subject of sale, and are not prescribed and compulsory to sell a business space. The adoption of a new law is also foreseen as measure 3 as part of the programme of measures to simplify the business of small-economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65449	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65450	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retired Party first supports the government's desire not to fix bad laws but to go with new law, a new legislative proposal and that is good, it is good to go in two readings. And we think it would be good for the motionor to also respect the comments of the Committee on Law, to respect the comments of the other committees that discussed this bill, and our remarks, namely to talk about the need of a law like this, about the regulation of a substance like this, I don't think there's any need. It's clear to everyone and stress that need, I don't think there's any need. But we, at the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired, believe that, in turn, in Article 5, which speaks of all the provisions of the contract on the lease of a business space, what should be in the contract, should be added in addition to the other conditions and conditions and the manner of breakdown or cancellation of the contract, as well as the use and payment of the connections, because these are two very important and important elements in the mutual contractual commitment, which are not prescribed in this Article 5. Furthermore, in Article 11(1), the second subparagraph is to be maintained, repairs which fall under the legislator's burden should be added and are not, however, referred to as deficiencies, and could not be noticed by a simple review when taking over the space. We think that this is very important in terms of uniform determination and precision of obligations and rights. Article 33(4), I think it's very important to add that in the end. It speaks here on the basis of the list of business premises that are subject to sale, which will be made public. We propose on the basis of a list of all business spaces that will be publicly published as a separate part of the space sold. In fact, the fact is that when we talk about business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia that we have one meaning list of these spaces, it does not exist and that it is something to be done, definitely. The fact that with an extremely large number of business spaces there are units of local administrations, municipalities and cities, that's a fact. That manipulation with those spaces is evident. Therefore, as the first step to be taken in terms of solving the overall story is to make a list of jobs, to have a register, to have a list of premises, to have a register of assets, to have that register published, that it is a public document and then to be based on that register, based on these published lists, and that what is sold is an isolated part of the space that has been published and which is the subject of the sale. This is related to Article 4, Article 5(4), Article 5(3). Article 35 concerning price formation, purchase prices, the position of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of pensioners is that this article should be completely amended, and that this Article, Article 35, interferes with both the market value and the price. So when we talk about market value, it should be defined in a way that is sold at an estimated market value based on an authorised judicial expert for the assessment of real estate or company authorised for assessment. The reduced estimated value will be approved according to specifically adopted regulations which will also define the assessment methodology, respecting EU practice, but not based on unpaid depreciation, as it is already contained in the assessment. The choice of the appraiser will also be made by the owner based on the previous tender, and in which the competition will determine the references of future appraisers. For the purposes of this Article, Article 3(3), the market price and value of the unamortised investment of the tenant or the user shall be determined by the authorised judicial expert of the construction or architectural profession from the list of authorised court experts and by the choice of the owner of the business space. Our question is on the basis of which criteria are formed a list of authorised court experts. We believe that, in the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People, we believe that up to that list the owner, regardless of whether it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular, I stress this, especially when we talk about municipalities and cities that this list should come from very clearly defined criteria based on a public tender. And then we don't worry, and then there's no one to complain about. Article 36, paragraph 1, the payment of the business space price can be agreed on at once or by a mere payment according to the customer's choice, which is certainly fine, but we are interested in item 3, interest rate during the period of payment of 4% per year. Why 4, why isn't it 2, why isn't it 6, where did 4 come from? In the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement, we believe that this interest should be lower, with the fact that it is done in the long term, which we want to be stimulating and by the more that there is, and this is regulated in Article 40 of the provision which obliges the customer not to sell that property within the next 10 years of the day of the contract. And attitude four, that's just a comment like this. The seller is required in the contract for the purchase of a business space with a ring payment, the value of the monthly meal to be tied to the euro at the average exchange rate of the Croatian National Bank per day... Whether Kuna is our means of payment or we do not trust it, we tie it to the euro or we do not believe in the measures we bring and implement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope that the proposer will respect the remarks we have made and, in that sense, the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65451	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65452	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will also support the bill's proposal, noting that all the provisions concerning leases, the way contracts are concluded, the tendering is less acceptable and I believe that until the second reading, certain suggestions and proposals of associations and cities will also be respected. But what is very important for the SDP club is that as regards the request of the Chamber of Commerce to sell business premises, it is important to note that we agree that the sale is regulated to detail for a simple reason because it is not the freedom of the market but rather the convenience of those who are in the space. But that will and program must be units of local self-government. So their will to determine whether or not they will rent, whether or not they will sell, rather than make it a commitment. Therefore, in this law it is defined. So, the will of the local self-government unit remains, and if the local self-government authorities determine that there will be sales, then it is very clearly prescribed how, how. I say, with certain improvements in the second reading, I believe that the law will also be of quality. And in this way, in fact, if there is mutual will, both local units and craftsmen and users of space, there can be contracting, and according to this Act. But the SDP club once again points to the importance that this must be the decision of the units of local self-government, not the laws or decisions of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65453	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65454	Seven, Proposal for a Law on the Hire and Sale of Business Space, this is the first reading, P.Z. number 672. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the following conclusion: first, the proposal for a law on the lease and sale of a business space, second all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's please get involved and vote on the conclusion. The result? This proposal for a conclusion was adopted unanimously by 116 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65455	And last item today, that is point fifteen - Proposal for a decision to appoint judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia Proposer: Justice Committee Next Article 133(2). The law on the courts of the Justice Committee has laid down a proposal for this decision. You received the proposal by mail. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65456	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a decision on the appointment of judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in some parts, i.e. The motions are contrary to the Law of Courts. Namely, as we know, we have a neighbouring system where the laymen together with professionals decide on guilt and decide on criminal sanctions. So, it's still different from the jury trial of the Anglo-Saxon system, which as a layman decides only those who are liars of guilt while a professional judge imposes sanctions if the jury, so the laymen find the defendant guilty. Our Law on Courts states in its Article 131(1) that any adult in the Republic of Croatia who, of course, must have moral qualities can be appointed as a judge of the jury. So there's no need for any kind of education. However, the law in Article 131 of that Article states to the latter that the provisions of that law, namely the Law on Courts of Judges, apply accordingly to judges of jurors if it is not explicitly different. First of all, it refers to an age. Our judges professionals, all judicial officials and state attorneys of 70 years of age must retire. So it's a retirement ex-lege. There are people here over 70, I don't know why it hasn't been checked. We've had cases like this on several occasions. They were primarily obliged to look at the presidents of the county courts who proposed them, but they didn't. If they make decisions with such a march, then we can imagine what kind of malice they make decisions in which they decide on rights, the property of people, their short fate. It's just inadmissible. Here's what I'm going to turn around later so I don't burden you here or the public with certain names, to correct it, or to eliminate such candidates, and also to turn seriously to those presidents of courts who also don't care about the Law on Gender Equality, so candidates are called candidates, etc. But these are the judges who apply the law, who should apply the Law on Gender Equality on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination, etc. It's also one serious remark but here now insubstantial nature. Also for jurors, since the provisions of the Law on Courts in this section which have no exceptions are applied accordingly, they must not be politically active, which means that they must not be above all, it is explicitly stated that they must not be members of any political party. I personally know people who were members, now I have no data, which are members of the HDZ in Zadar, now I don't know if they really are, I can't say if they are now, but I know they were, and it wasn't disputed. We don't have any confirmation whether they're still, except for their evidence that we trust them with a good and good word. However, we have an example from the proposal of the County Court in Gospić, which is literally inadmissible, and this should draw attention to the attention and responsibilities of the President of the Court. So in addition to the express provisions, I repeat that judges should not be members of the political party, so no level or municipal court, not the county court, not least of the Supreme Court. Here we have confirmation of the city's organisation HDZ for both candidates that they are no longer members and that their membership in Croatia ended on September 15th 2010, so suddenly they saw that they could receive a claim and compensation as judges of the Supreme Court, so they suddenly saw that they would no longer be members of the HDZ. But that's the formal thing we can do, at that point the law says, even though it's all clear, but here's the formality, maybe it's okay to... as this has been so long as the President of the Court does not take care of it either, but gives them confirmation that these are honorable people, which I have not doubted either, good people, that they have been knowingly doing their jury duty since 2007 and 2008. [[You don't understand.]] Gentlemen, now I ask you, how can these judges judge you fair and impartially? Today we had a new strategy for judicial reform, and oh, I'm only talking here about these most recent examples, and of course it means that the juror can read and write, at least in the elements at that level of the lower school, and that he should know that in Croatia there is a Latin letter, that the latin letter has capital letters and small letters written. But one candidate starts writing in writing letters, and then he gets tired, and then he keeps texting in big print letters, and it's all in such order that it's not boring. I think even though I have to point out that there are some great candidates here who are proud of both education and seriousness, and by careers which, in some ways and the career of jurors, are also acquired by some experience both in the municipal and in the county, and many here have earned the Supreme Court and we, which is what we decide to have really good quality people. But these proposals speak more of those who have run them for presidents of these courts than of these candidates themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65457	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65458	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the follow-up to this story, colleague Anticevic, let me remind you that the HNS Club, HSU 2.7 this year, when we received the first proposal for jury judges of the Supreme Court, we then asked the State Secretary, who was present, we asked her before I began the debate on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, please the Secretary of State to answer me whether, according to the provision of Article 131(2). The law on the courts of the provision of that law relating to judges shall apply accordingly to judges of jurors, unless otherwise specified. And she answered that: yes. And based on the arguments of our club, where we showed that three, or four candidates and are members of the political party, were participating last year in the elections, the list was withdrawn, and we now expected that there would be a minimum control of the names, names and proposals. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues did exactly the opposite. And now we have even more candidates who do not, unfortunately, fit into Croatian laws. Let's get this straight. Drago Šilić, I think Zagreb or Zagreb County, is participating in last year's elections. Is this political activity? He was on the political party list as independent. Now that he's passed the election, he's a member of the local board. Is this a political function and political activity? Yes, yes and yes. Then we have Lydia Janes, jury of the county court, elected in 2007. Last year he participated in the elections, on the list of Antun Matoša, HSP. Josip Banović, Zagreb, also participates in the independent list of holders of Zdenko Čicek. Milana Gende case, Gospić. Likewise. It is truly a shame for the judge, or judge, to have the President Dubravka Rudelic sign his candidacy, and to have from the Deputy President of the Court of Praise at the expense of Milan Genda, who said he responded neatly to the invitations of the county court in Gospić... your duty and judge of the jury. [[You don't understand.]] So he served as a member of the HDZ for more than a year, the confirmation was accompanied by that he was a member of the HDZ. The same colleagues and colleagues also refer to Milo Hecimovic. My colleagues and colleagues, look, if we hadn't properly warned at the 7th month about breaking the law, I wouldn't have said anything right now. I'd say there was an accident. But this isn't a mistake. This is embarrassing, this is reckless, this is illegal, this is humiliating for this House. How we expect to heal the judiciary with this kind of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65459	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer of the Committee on Justice, Chairman of the Committee, Honorable Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65460	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. As a proposer, I propose that judges of the Supreme Court be appointed for the reason that, for the time being, for several months now, an important criminal case is pending before the Supreme Court because they do not exist from the area, it seems to me that this is the County Court of Judges in Zagreb and cannot be held before the Supreme Court. It is true, and I agree with everything my predecessors said, or representatives in the debate, we have already returned this proposal once because it was not made up and it was not the way it should be. It is true that the presidents of the courts do not show any debt of seriousness or due attention to the proposal, these are the judges of the Supreme Court. It is a serious, honorable and important duty, they decide in the most difficult cases just as the judges do. Their vote in decision-making is as valid as the judge's vote. And it's really amazing how recklessly the Presidents of the County Court have proposed these jurors. But I note that when it came to the Justice Committee, it passed the review of the Presidents of the Court, the Ministry, the Minister of Justice and the President of the Supreme Court who gave a positive opinion on all of the proposals you have here. Not only did the age that is too old, so the colleague said that there are some who are over 70 years old so that they would not meet the conditions for a judge, I noticed that there are too many ages, that there are suggestions to look after the judges of the Supreme Court person who is not 20 years old, who are administrative referents or are... Well, the judge certainly can't become someone when he's 18, so for a judge, it's certainly not a condition to be 18 because he simply can't get the necessary equipment. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I certainly think that for such an assessment of important social relations if you want to or decision on serious crimes and even difficult civil-law relations someone who has no life experience or work experience that can hardly assess it. However, in view of this crime, according to the new CAP, which will enter into force on 1 September 2011 so in criminal cases, the amendments to the appeal procedure have been made so that the second-degree court will no longer carry out the hearing. So, there will be no possibility of a debate. In that sense, these provisions on jurors are falling off. Therefore, the majority of those proposed here will neither be in a position to ever be engaged because very rarely debates are opened before the Supreme Court, and in order to complete now this debate that is awaiting and the whole process is pending I suggest that these jurors be appointed, except that we are prepared to withdraw the proposal only in relation to the person for whom the current political engagement is established if he is acting as a member of the council, as you have said to the Council of the Local Committee. And the fact that someone once was in a party is really under this law we can't tell when he had to step out of the party, whether he was 20 years ago, 5 years ago, or when he was in a party. I had, for example, the case that a counsellor in the court was appointed as an active member of the parliament of the Požega-Slavon County of SDP, and we couldn't formally prohibit her from being a judicial adviser for reasons that there was no obstacle to political engagement for advisers, although it was logical that someone preparing for a judicial post would stay away from political engagement and not be a representative of one party in the County Assembly. But there was no formal obstacle. Here, therefore, I am staying with this proposal for a reason not to block the work of the Supreme Court, and I agree with many remarks, and also with the writing of the résumés themselves that are attached here. It really shows one total, I'd say disrespecting that honorable function of a juror.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65461	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65462	Well, here's just one incorrect quote because I have to correct it because it's basically everything that we all agree with and we have to agree, but simply because the judges can't judge, we can't afford to break the law. Also, as for those who just recently left the HDZ political party, they disqualify themselves by acting as a jury duty that they were, therefore, breaking the law themselves, that's another thing. So we have to eliminate them for that. And thirdly, we need to teach the Presidents of the Court that at least they behave in harmony and must bear the consequences. Someone has to answer for this. We can't cover someone's lawlessness with our new lawlessness, it's the wrong way. We'll all come to a dead end then. Simply put up responsibility and get this thing serious, and that's exactly where I call for the Justice Department to react. Well, it can't be. There's a member here who writes here, and I also declare that I'm a member of the HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65463	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65464	One of them says I'm out, and I just found out they signed me into the HDZ, so I shut myself down. Well, it can't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65465	Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met. That concludes today's session. We'll continue at 9.30 tomorrow with point 11. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 670. Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65466	We move to the Proposal for a Decision appointing judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Proposer of the Justice Committee. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Please, Mr. Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65467	Mr. President of the Parliament, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party, I strongly protest this case of the intrusion of the Croatian Parliament into an illegal procedure. We have established and documented, in the debate, that there are at least five persons among the candidates who are directly in conflict with the Law on Courts, as judges of the county courts directly engaged in political activity. We ask that this vote be removed from the agenda and that the Justice Committee take part in its responsibility and finally submit a list of people who are not in conflict with the Court Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65468	Mrs. Anna Lovrin, chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65469	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's about the next one. Proposed by jury judges is the Ministry of Justice and these judges, on a proposal from the president of the county courts, come to the ministry, the ministry forwards with the opinion of the Supreme Court a list of judges to the Justice Committee. So this procedure has passed from the President of the Court, through the Ministry of Justice, to, with the opinion of the session and the President of the Supreme Court, to the Committee on Justice. It is true that it was found in the debate that one of the judges of the jury, that he wrote that a member of the HSU was current, and one member wrote that he was not a member of any party, but was a member of the local committee. Unfortunately, we haven't found a business way to withdraw these two candidacys. Given that the case before the Supreme Court stands, expecting jurors for the county of the County Court in Zagreb, I ask that this decision be voted upon, and in relation to these two we will make a statement and they will be issued from the list.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65470	So the Proposer stays with his proposal. Please don't engage in an argument, but please, ma'am. Are you on behalf of the club? Here you go, Mrs. Anticevic Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65471	The lawlessness and lawlessness that had been proposed by some of the presidents of the county courts underwent the Ministry of Justice, unfortunately, instead of sanctioning such court presidents who propose candidates themselves who claim that even at the time they were jurors of the county courts and lower courts were members of the political party, in two cases of HDZ, it is the court in Gospić, and instead of sanctioning it, we will now vote here. It's unspeakable. The very situation that the Supreme Court needs jury judges doesn't mean that with our decision here, we're going to legalize lawlessness. I think it's too much from a proposal like this. Similarly, there are candidates who are over 70 years old, and according to the Law on Courts, they, unless otherwise resolved, are subject to such a provision, therefore they cannot be judges of any court, let alone the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court decides the most important things, the freedom, the great punishments, therefore we propose to. ... Of course. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-13-0.u65472	... I have here a proposal for someone who has the right to propose, which is the Justice Committee and he doesn't give up. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm voting on a proposal from the Justice Committee. Please make a statement. Turn yourself in and vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? Proposal for a Decision appointing judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, whose proposal was adopted by the Justice Committee by a majority of votes, 76 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 39 against. Thank you. We move to the agenda point - Final bill on amendments and additions of the Law on election of representatives to the Croatian Parliament, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 670. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by means of an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. Discussions were conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Pavle Matičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
