ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51734	I wish everyone a good morning, we continue with the work of the Parliament session with the announced agenda item, which is - Report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 01 July to 31 December 2009 The National Committee submitted a report on the basis of point 2. Decisions of the Croatian Parliament on the establishment of the National Committee. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. The government delivered an opinion. Would the proposing representatives like to explain the proposal? Yeah. National Committee President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51735	I thank Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister Mr. Plenkovic, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the report of the National Committee for the period from 01 July to 31 December 2009 is on the agenda. Fortunately, I'd say something out of date about data. And that's why I asked him to share at the same time on the benches regarding the open, closed and remaining chapters for opening the present state. This situation, of course, was not like that on December 31st 2009, but since MPs actually have to have the possibility of monitoring the situation in the negotiations as it progresses or as it changes, then we thought it useful to have simple full information, you get this information that is currently a state. This is what is divided into benches, which differs because, in the meantime, there have been some chapters and closures that have not yet been activated on December 31st or have either been closed or not yet been opened or not yet opened. So the difference between what the report says and what's divided into benches is actually the difference in status, is the difference between the situation on December 31st 2009 and today's situation. This is just an ad information to you that you know in your possibly discussions on what the current state of affairs is. As far as this report is concerned, I would say, the last report of this species where it is spoken, and the discussions and the topics of the National Committee's session, which were done at these sessions and the status of individual chapters. In the meantime, in our opinion, we came or should be in the final phase of the negotiations. As you know, our plan is to end the negotiations this year. Parliament, as well as I think the Croatian public, should also be able to obtain information about the tasks ahead of Croatia. So, the tasks to be done in order to complete the negotiations this year by the end of this year. After 31.12, we organised a meeting on the National Committee that was also the prime minister and leaders of all negotiating chapters that have not yet been closed, no matter what stage they are in. And based on what the leaders of these negotiating chapters have told us there, we have made up a list of basic tasks to be done by the end of the negotiations in each of these chapters. This list of tasks is available to all MPs, he could not have been included in this report because he was not made until 31.12.2009, but is available to all MPs and MPs on the National Committee, who is potentially interested in this report and will, of course, be included in the following report. So, in the report on this six-month period. We have also made a list of all delays in the implementation of individual EU directives that we have sought in the negotiating positions for chapters that have been temporarily closed and a list of what we have received in fact. So for the illustration, I don't know, we've been looking somewhere for delays or a reduction in VAT rates in zero taxes. We didn't get zero, but there will have to be some VAT on certain products that we've been looking for zero. And what he will be will be determined by the state. So at this point, we are already at that stage of the negotiations in which we need to look and what we have been looking for in the negotiating positions and in the chapters that we have temporarily closed what we have received de facto. It is also not included here, but is also available to all MPs and MPs on the National Committee if they are interested and can, of course, get that information. And it's going to be included in the report and so I'm saying that this is the last kind of report, it's going to be included in the report on this six-month period. The period from July 1st to December 31st 2009 was the period during which we actually had a Slovenian blockade, in which we could not make significant progress in opening and closing chapters due to problems with Slovenia. As for one chapter, it is the judiciary and fundamental rights, it did not refer to the Slovenian blockade but to the objections of some other countries, but one of the reasons why we have made little progress in this technical sense, meaning the actual opening and closing of the chapter is the fact that it was the period of the Slovenian blockade, which, in the meantime, was abolished or we have another chapter that is currently on that basis in the blockade. A total of 5 sessions of the National Committee were held between 1 July and 31 December 2009, and there are also the topics of these sessions in the Report, so that they were held at individual sessions. I would refer here to a topic discussed at the 44th session held on 15 September 2009 and concerns the competition chapter. It's a chapter in which our sensitivity is to say the subject, and that's the theme of shipbuilding. Since various speculations have arisen in the public, as has been said in fact in terms of shipbuilding and as requested in view of shipbuilding in the negotiating position, I would like to make it clear here what has been adopted on the national committee. So the National Committee adopted a formulation that ends like this and here I quote: "The completion of the privatisation process of the shipyard is planned in 4th quarter of 2009, i.e. early 2010. For certain shipyards not privatised in such a planned procedure, the possibility of opening a bankruptcy procedure shall be provided.’ The debate was here in public whether it was a bankruptcy procedure or a liquidation. I would like to underline here that in the negotiating position that has passed through the National Committee there is only a bankruptcy procedure which is a kind of restructuring, there is no mention of liquidation, and in that sense it is not something that is an integral part of our negotiating position. I must also warn, and that would not be a good thing to do in the future, and that is that the final version in the negotiating position is a competition something different from that, so the government added something to that version that went through the National Committee. The fact that it is added to my assessment is good because it takes into account the changed situation on the market, so it introduces the possibility of continuing the restructuring procedures, with an explanation that the market conditions have changed significantly from the moment that we decided or when the government decided to go to privatisation, it was probably rational to add but these additional formulations should have been released through the National Committee which in this case has not been done and it would be good not to repeat such things. I've got one version and another, if someone's particularly interested in him here, he's got an insight. Finally, as far as the government's opinion is concerned, there is a certain difference in the number of laws harmonised last year, so in that second part of 2009, between what is in the National Committee Report and what is in the government's opinion. The report of the National Committee therefore mentions 20 laws plus 2 in the first reading, and the opinion of the Government mentions 23 laws plus 2 in the first reading. I warn here I have these laws that were passed last year and also stand for everyone to see, I warn that the total number of laws for 2009 is the same in the Report of the National Committee and in the opinion of the Government, only the difference between the distribution in the first term to say so in the second half how many laws were passed. And in the government's opinion, 29 laws were also mentioned which were not in the plan and were adopted at parliament meetings, it is quite acceptable and true, but it is not a follow-up to the implementation of that plan that was adopted in parliament, so what we had as a plan, and that is what we followed in this report. Such a situation will likely be this year, because already, if you remember when we discussed it, from the very plan that we have brought it was visible that there are still a whole series of laws that are not in the plan that we will be obliged to bring this year. Here, as far as the government's opinion is concerned, I don't think there's any dramatic reasoning, but these are the two remarks that I thought I needed on behalf of the National Committee to answer. I believe that, as Parliament, there is a period in which we will have to enter much more actively not only formal monitoring of closure, opening chapters, meeting standards, we will have to engage in a more dynamic and elaborate strategy to communicate the status of negotiations, the content of negotiations, the public, but also parliamentary representatives. By that I mean primarily what the results of these negotiations are, so what I mentioned was that we did on the National Committee and that there is a difference between the requested and the delays or the benefits obtained, the quotas, the rate in those negotiations, because it will be the situation we will need to start living with I hope 1. 1. In 2012 and for this situation we need to start preparing and adapting. At this point, we have three more unopened chapters. My opinion that by the end of the summer, which means by the end of the Spanish Presidency and the first month of the Belgian Presidency, which begins on 1 July 2010, we would have to open all chapters, so these 3 that are sensitive to us. One is the Market Competition, the other is the Justice and Fundamental Rights, and the third is sensitive, in fact not so sensitive except in relations with Slovenia is sensitive, and that is the Foreign and Security Policy that is ready to open, but at this point has a Slovenian reserve. And we would have to close the negotiations in chapters to the level so we don't have more than 4 'let's say a maximum of 5 chapters to close in the fall, because we will naturally remain heavy chapters. And in order to end the negotiations by the end of this year and then sign a pre-accession agreement, organise a referendum and enter into the process of ratification of the accession treaty in the 27 parliaments of the Member States, i.e. frankly a little more because Belgium has several, let's say, parliaments. So that's the situation we're in right now. Some difficulties are subjective, some of them are political in nature on the international agenda, but they are all, of course, an integral part of this process and require the Government and Parliament in my opinion, and there will be a greater and more significant role of Parliament, with time, especially for the conclusion of negotiations and ratification. And I believe that Parliament must be prepared in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51736	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Honorable Andrej Plenkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51737	Dear Mr. Vice-President Jarnjak, Ms. Vice-President of the National Committee Pusic, ladies and deputies. As the president of the National Committee has already stated, the government of the Republic of Croatia gave an opinion on the National Committee's report on the second half of last year, a month ago. The two notes also mentioned refer to the number of laws adopted in the second half of 2009, as well as to the additional 29 laws set out in the legislative harmonisation plan In addition, the Government welcomes and accepts the report, i.e. proposing the adoption of a report by the National Committee, and thanks to the content debate held at several meetings of the National Committee during the long half of 2009 which we can say was a key year for a milestone in the negotiation process. Last year it was marked with the first six months practically without any progress in the negotiations. The agreement reached with Slovenia allows progress, allows rapid progress, so the Swedish presidency was one of the most successful presidencys in the past 5 years of the negotiations. The main indications of the negotiation process's activities were brought out here last week by Mr. Drobnjak, so there's no point in repeating it at this point. What seems crucial is the exceptional importance of the Croatian Parliament in not only the negotiation process but later in membership. The provisions of the Lisbon Treaty have gone one step further. There is direct communication between the institutions of the European Union and national parliaments. A large part of the activity is already taking place through the experience that representatives of the Croatian Parliament acquire in the activities of COSAC. Therefore, I mean what the president said to be crucial, and especially in the context of the ratification process, so after signing the joint effort of the government, the joint effort of diplomacy, but also the key role of parliamentary diplomacy in communicating with parliaments, 27 members of the ratification process. The government hopes that we will achieve the strategic goal of closing all chapters by the end of this year. You've seen the report from the European Commission that shares that ambition with us. It is crucial that the financial envelope provided for by the European Commission for the Republic of Croatia be used in a timely manner during this current financial perspective, primarily for 2012 and 2013. The information activity of the Croatian public is also mentioned. I think it is one of the strategic issues for all stakeholders of this process, especially given the practical 10th summer national consensus on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which was based on numerous documents brought by the Croatian Parliament over the past year. Of course, the content debate on chapters remained within the framework of the National Committee which was not always available to the public. We believe that as we approach the end of the negotiations that all the substance issues should also be discussed and extended precisely in order for Croatian citizens to choose between being or not fully informed about what membership in the European Union means for Croatia, what Croatia has achieved in the accession negotiations process and what is our perspective in the Union that will expand for another member. We're hoping within practically two years. At this point, I think that's enough. I welcome the activities of the National Committee and the representatives of the negotiating team and the government will continue to participate in them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51738	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51739	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Mr. President of the Croatian Government. So here is the name of the Croatian Democratic Community club, of course, that we will support the National Committee's report, and I believe that we will also consensually accept this report because it was also the way it worked on the National Committee. As everyone knows, decisions on the National Committee are taken by consensus and that is something that is extremely important for all of us and in some way facilitates access to the negotiation process, and I would say that it distances it from those daily political disputes that we have in the Croatian Parliament on other issues that seem important to me. It should also be noted that the period we are talking about today is behind us, but I would point out that optimism has returned to the work of the National Committee during that period. Why? Because after a long term, I would say the blockades by Slovenia opened the negotiation process and in fact it was the period under the Swedish presidency in which the most chapters were opened and closed. Since the start of the negotiations, this was the period during which it happened, and therefore it was opened from 1 July to 31 December 2009, as many as 6 chapters were opened and even 10 chapters were temporarily closed. This was really important, and this is why I say that optimism has returned in the work of the National Committee, primarily thanks to the agreement of two prime ministers, Mrs Jadranka Kosor and Mr Pahora, who reached an agreement that we later ratified in the Croatian Parliament, and here, which was confirmed in the Slovenian Parliament two days ago. So, it is about the arbitration agreement, and that is actually a turning point in the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, and that therefore meant progress in Croatian negotiations with the European Union. The President of the National Committee has already said that he hopes this will probably be the last report on the work of the National Committee that we can agree on because we are really in the finale of negotiations with the European Union and our expectations are in the Croatian Democratic Community club so that we can complete negotiations with the European Union by the end of this year and that we can begin ratification in the following year, of course before the referendum in Croatia and in early 2012 we expect to join the European Union. For such a time frame, we have strong support which is extremely important for both the European Parliament and the joint sittings, i.e. at the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the European Parliament and the Croatian Parliament, is also supported by this time frame. So, finalising this year's negotiations, ratification through the next and full membership in the European Union in early 2012. In addition to partners in the European Union, for such a time frame, we are given strong support and partners from the Euro-Atlantic Union, the NATO Alliance, especially the United States, which seems extremely important to me. A few days ago, the State Department also announced on a question about Croatian negotiations also the expectation that Croatia will complete negotiations this year and expect it to become a full member of the European Union 2012. We believe that this is also important, this strong support of both the European Parliament and the Euro-Atlantic Alliance partners, that it is important and that it also gives us wind in our work in some way. I also agree that what the National Committee will concentrate on in the future will be significantly different than it has been before. I would say that there are three areas ahead of us that will need the National Committee to take account of, which is the ratification process, so the strong parliamentary diplomacy needed in this process, which I would have already said, because we all who are working with our partners in the European Parliament are already stressing the importance of this period and how important it is for the Member States of the European Union to decide in time to ratify the Accession Treaty of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union and in this respect we are already acting and I would also say to the Committee on European Integration and the National Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and all those who cooperate with partners in the European Union. The second area is the area of communication, communication with the public and, as the president of the National Committee said, I also agree with our colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, communication with the public is extremely important. One part of the work has already been done in the National Committee, discussions have been opened, round tables on certain issues which are good, which has proved good in the public, but it seems to me that even more energy should be directed towards opening up as much space as possible on public television as possible to the negotiating process or to the results of the negotiation process. The results of the negotiation process are not yet sufficiently well-known to the public, and I would also say to the parliamentary representatives, and the reason for that is certainly in the fact that the National Committee has negotiated, in part, in closed sessions, of course so that as far as possible better positions would be taken in the negotiation process and that the managerial process would be left to the negotiating team to result in a better position for the Republic of Croatia, so in these first years of its full membership. It has already been said that a number of delays have been requested, the application of certain directives. As far as we did, as far as we didn't, I would say more or less in line with all the other countries that have joined the European Union before us, we are somewhere on their trail. In some areas we may be a little bit better, but in any case that was why the National Committee meetings were closed to the public. However, through round tables, through public debates and through this communication that will need to be refreshed and even more supported is actually the possibility that the Croatian public, especially all Croatian citizens, will get acquainted with what is waiting for them, I would say first of all in a positive sense. It seems to me that there are far fewer consequences that could possibly be said negative for Croatian citizens. We can generally say that it is about positive changes, although all I'm talking about is actually the Croatian Parliament and saw through the amendments to the many laws that we have passed here and through these changes it was actually possible to see what will change in Croatian everyday life and what will apply to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This was already about VAT rates for which we asked for a delay for which we did not get a green light when we talk about a zero rate. But of course, it's something we'll talk about in the Croatian Parliament in time. So that's another area. The second area is communication and the third area that has not been mentioned so far, and it seems to me extremely important, perhaps mentioned by the President of the National Committee, which seems extremely important to me, which is the preparation of the Croatian Parliament for full membership in the European Union. Because Croatia's entry into the European Union will significantly mention the work of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Croatian Parliament. We will daily receive hundreds of documents from the European Commission, from the European Parliament, and of course we will need to respond to all these documents. They will need to be implemented or forwarded further to those concerned and they will need to meet the Croatian public, and above all, Croatian parliamentarians, us in the Croatian Parliament with everything that is happening both in the European Parliament and in the European Commission. It is therefore extremely important to prepare the Croatian Parliament for this period. It's already under way... a project between the Republic of Croatia and Hungary where we have experts from the Republic of Hungary, from our friendly neighbouring country that are actually helping, which in some ways scan the situation in the Croatian Parliament already work to educate our employees and prepare them for that period. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What model will we choose to function institutionally in the Croatian Parliament depends primarily on ourselves. But that's something we'll definitely still talk about. But it seems to me that this is the most important, so these three areas. Therefore, the faster ratification, communication with the public and preparation of the Croatian Parliament for full membership, that they are extremely important for the work of the National Committee and that the National Committee will have to focus on these three periods in the next period. We heard the state of the negotiations today. I want to take this opportunity and say, in fact, that we expect and that Chapter 31. Foreign security and defence policy is also being opened together with the competition chapter,... and Chapter 23. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Justice and fundamental rights. And I believe during more Spanish presidency, which means at the next Intergovernmental Conference in June or at the latest in early July, so until the start of summer during the Belgian presidency. It gives us hope that we could really complete the negotiations by the end of this year. Because as Mr. Drobnjak said last week, most of the criteria that were in front of us for closing the chapters that were left to close, and you know that there are 12 closure chapters left and these three to open and close, of course, that all these criteria are fulfilled and that Croatia can say that I would speed up the negotiations. This is what really raises optimism in both the work of the National Committee and what it has already been about. Here's a few days ago open chapter 1. Also extremely significant. But what's up with us is that we really do everything we can to complete this negotiation process as soon as possible and to take advantage of the financial envelope that has already been spoken of, which has been prepared for the Republic of Croatia for the first two years of its full membership. So, for 2012 and 2013 and for 3 and a half billion euros, which is really extremely big money. It's only 25 billion kuna for the first two years of membership, and of course it's not money that's just going to be given so easily, it's money that projects are needed. Here, once again, we strongly support the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the negotiating team in the completion of the negotiation process by the end of this year and expect ratification in the next and full membership in early 2012. And of course we support, we support this report from the National Committee that is before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51740	Thank you. Before we continue, allow me to briefly interrupt the session in order to welcome members of the Committee on Finance, Budget and the currency of the Slovak Parliament who are staying in the official visit to the Croatian Parliament on your behalf. Welcome! We continue with our regular work. [[Applause.]] We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51741	Vice President, an honorary colleague has said that in his opinion we will conclude negotiations this year. This could be an incorrect allegation, since the two chapters where the biggest problems are, and this is about the judiciary and the protection of competition, we haven't even opened up. I want to be optimistic, but I don't want to deceive the public because those two chapters where there really are the biggest problems should be opened and closed this year. I don't know if that'll be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51742	Your Honor, you yourself said in the introduction that you were correcting your opinion. The opinion of the Rules of Procedure cannot be corrected. Take care of it. We're moving on with the club debate. It's SDP's turn, distinguished representative of Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51743	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is another report on the work of the National Committee in the second half of last year, another report showing us how good the decision was, the joint decision of all political parties in the Croatian Parliament, the decision since 2005 to strengthen, establish and strengthen dialogue between the Government and the Croatian Parliament on all issues related to Croatia's accession to the European Union. The second half of last year, i.e. the time of the Swedish Presidency of the European Union, is a safe period, a good period for our negotiation process, and it is certain that the National Committee has also shown during that period how much the Committee or Parliament can contribute to the improvement and strengthening of the process of bringing Croatia closer to the European Union. As far as the report itself is concerned, as regards the actual data presented in the report on the work of the National Committee, the SDP club will certainly support it and I say support it with an indication of good practice and good action of the Croatian Parliament in the process of bringing Croatia closer to the European Union. What the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Committee, has done well in the period for which the report is submitted, as well as in the whole of its action, I think that we should place it in two categories, i.e. in two directions, which is the contribution of the Croatian Parliament to identify as clear as possible, which is a stronger negotiating position that reflects the interests of all those interested in the outcome of the negotiations in certain negotiating chapters. In an open constructive atmosphere, the National Committee, an atmosphere that resulted in consensus on all negotiating issues, contributed precisely to such a strengthening of the negotiating positions, and I think it was the role and contribution of the Croatian Parliament that cannot be avoided even at this time when we are talking about the action of the National Committee. The second contribution of the Croatian Parliament is reflected in the legislative action, in the legislative harmonisation of Croatian national legislation with the acquis of the European Union, and there is a dynamic of harmonisation and I would say to a large extent that the quality of harmonisation was at the level that allowed the negotiating process to retain the necessary dynamics. Since the beginning of the SDP, we have stressed that the negotiation process will go as quickly and as well as well as the reforms go well and quickly, as well as legislative ones, as well as those structural reforms based on such amended and amended legislation. Therefore, Parliament was not the narrow throat of the legislative process, and we are, in fact, brought here today into a situation where we can say that, with the harmonisation of the legislation, Croatia has almost reached the end of the current level and the current state of European legislation, of course, this is the process that takes place, the process in which we are reaching a moving target, I would say, that is, the amendments to European legislation are permanent and so there will be changes to Croatian legislation. Unfortunately, what was not sufficiently highlighted in this parliamentary action and what this double contribution of the Parliament meant to contribute to the establishment of negotiating positions, and the contribution to the legislative process, means unfortunately that this contribution was only a double and not a triple. The Croatian Parliament missed, but unfortunately the same as the Government to strengthen Europe's communication to the citizens. It is a process in which it has simply not been done enough so far, or if something has been done at the level of one-way communication between state bodies, state officials and citizens, it has been more, I would almost say the propaganda of Europe than whether the dialogue on Europe and the advantages, the shortcomings, the difficulties, but also the good that membership in the European Union brings, and because of that it is certain that the National Committee, and then the Croatian Parliament as a whole should, not only because of the referendum that is being called before Croatia's membership in the European Union, but also because of the level of information, because of the level of acceptance of the European Union, that it is necessary to establish a bilateral, establish dialogue, establish bilateral communication on Europe with Croatian citizens. So as far as the action of the National Committee in the SDP is concerned, we have no objections, we can welcome this action as a whole, I think that a much bigger problem is related not only to the work, mode of work and way of showing the political consensus in Europe that exists in the Croatian Parliament, and then, to its reflection on the National Committee, but I think the problem is quite situated in the area of real implementation of structural reforms, the real implementation of new legislative solutions, the European legislative solutions adopted by this Parliament. In fact, there is quite a lot of space, I would say enough space between what we cannot do in our legislation, and then in our practice, because of European regulations, and what we must do for ourselves to improve the overall situation in Croatia, especially in certain areas. This space between what we must not and what we must do, I think it was quite mechanically covered by the government, by all those active in the process of reform and change in Croatia, and I do not think the possibility of specific solutions and covering the specific needs that the Croatian economy and Croatian society have in general in the process of joining the European Union. One example is likely to keep me only on shipbuilding. It is clear to all that must not be done under European regulations in shipbuilding or in the restructuring of shipbuilding, which is not to continue the procedure for granting state aid, means that shipbuilding under European rules must operate without state support, but I am afraid it was not clear enough what must be done or what is the objective of this restructuring process. From the very beginning, I say we have stuck too much to what is advised in Brussels, I say only advised because the only requirement from Brussels and in terms of shipbuilding and in general there was no state support, there must be no state support, and that was the only requirement, everything else was about how to bring shipbuilding into a situation that could work without state support. The advice was privatized, which apparently the government accepted as practical if not the only then at least the first way to enable the maintenance of shipbuilding without state support, and there was enough space for us to try to restructure in other ways. There was plenty of space, and there was plenty of time. Because our obligation, to put it this way, to abolish shipbuilding support did not take place yesterday or did not occur at the time of the launch of the first tender for the privatisation of shipbuilding, but we are still thinking, under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, from March 2006, of the process of allowing shipbuilding to survive without state support. This is one example of this space between what we must and what we must not do because of the European process of bringing Croatia closer to the EU, i.e. Croatia's entry into EU membership. That is why, and because of the reforms ahead of us, I would really not like to enter, nor would we want to enter the SDP, and I would say before the speculation, is it really possible to really, realistically expect the conclusion of the negotiation process by the end of this year. We would very much like that to happen. We see space, we see possibilities, and we see ways to really do that. But we are also aware of everything we have been through so far through the EU accession negotiations process. And we are aware that no date that has been tried in one way or another, which has tried to argue in Croatia that it is possible and realistic date for the end of Croatia's entry into EU membership that no date has been reached, somewhere since 2007, which has been the first dates possible to complete negotiations until today. Therefore, it is much more important to do everything in both the National Committee and the Croatian Parliament, the Government, all the competent ministries that those reforms that are ahead of us are simply done in a way that will enable everyone in the EU, all partners, all EU member states to unanimously say that Croatia has completed its adjustment process, Croatia is capable and ready to become an EU member. Unfortunately, we are not in a situation yet, so that we can say that we have all done so that the process could be completed by the end of this year and that from now on everything on the European side is as fast as possible, how well they can evaluate what has been done in Croatia. However, there are still issues that are not related to the opening of chapters. I think we've done everything we can to open these three other chapters. Our negotiating positions are over, ready to surrender to European partners as soon as they ask. However, we have not yet done everything to ensure the closure of the 15 remaining chapters. Especially since some of them are, this one, I would almost say these 2 that are still unopened, the judiciary and fundamental human rights and the issue of protection, freedom of competition, or shipbuilding, that this situation is not such that in reforms, in the very assurance of our reforms and our actions, we could stand without any remainder, with the claim that it is possible within 6 months of opening, and I really hope that by the end of the Spanish Presidency or by the summer of this year, all chapters can be opened. However, it is hard to expect that in the next six months some of the such difficult chapters that we have so far, for which we have not so far shown enough levels of reform assurance, can be completed. However, I repeat, I would not like to engage in a time scale, an evaluation or an almost speculating on the time scale of our EU convergence process. I would keep myself safe and secure at the point of content about what needs to be done in the House, at the National Committee, to make sure to the end that only imposed deadlines can really be achieved. What the Parliament should continue to do, much more than so far, is primarily this area of communication for Europe to the citizens, which I was talking about, then it is a process of ratification of the Agreement on Croatia's accession to the EU. When it is signed ratification in 27 parliaments of member states plus those of parliament. So this parliamentary diplomacy and parliamentary contacts by both the National Committee and parliamentary deputies can, in any case, help speed up the process. And the third question is the work of the Croatian Parliament under the Lisbon Treaty. That was the same speech, but I would like to warn you that we simply need to strengthen our understanding and our way of doing so. I wouldn't want our negotiation process to be accelerated in a way that we give up the requested exceptions. It means we give up easily and quickly. I think that the role of the National Committee is very important, and I want the dialogue between the Government and the Parliament to work on the issues of the negotiation process itself, i.e. the issues of giving up or accepting Croatian requirements. All in all this is a report that can be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51744	Thank you. It's up to the IDS club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51745	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. First, the fundamental question is normal when will Croatia be in the EU? Will it be 2012, 2013? Is it going to be 2014, or do I know what year it is now? Now, here it is, in a way, and a debate over the Constitution, better said this constitutional European package who will vote, who will not vote for this Constitution. Although I personally think it would be better to simply regulate those essential minority issues in that document, but let's let it go now. On page 2. 2nd of this introduction is said to have temporarily closed negotiations in 7 negotiating chapters. We got normal after that and a supplement of that information, that is, this paper. So it is said that 30 chapters have been opened, that in 30 chapters 18 chapters have been closed and it is understandable to this day that three other chapters need to be opened today, which are foreign and security policy, or defence policy, judiciary, fundamental rights and competition. What is certainly important, however, Hungary takes over the EU presidency in early 2011. Hungary will surely strongly support the Republic of Hungary on our path to the EU. The Hungarians even suggest that by the end of their session, this will be held sometime in 6 months 2011, in fact they propose, they do not say anything about this referendum in the Republic of Croatia, where Croatian citizens should say whether or not they are for the European Union. Here, yesterday I'm reading this National, and then it's said to be expected to end the negotiations somewhere in February, and right after that, parliamentary elections should be called in order for the government to seem to use a wave of euphoria, a finished quote. And now the question is, whether someone is using this process of approaching the European Union as an electoral process, whether the elections will take place in the 4th month and whether perhaps the ruling majority of the referendum on the European Union will submit to the elections themselves. What we are certainly all interested in right now is how, for example, it will echo President Josipovic's speech and the government's reaction to what happened in Sarajevo and Brussels, I personally support Josipovic's speech from Sarajevo 100%, supported by Europe, supported by America, not the government, and now how it will come out of this situation. What I'm certainly interested in is this chapter 15, chapter Energy, some of them were talking about shipbuilding, and I'm going to touch the shipbuilding, too. When we talk about energy, God forbid Croatia to be energy independent, we used to be during Tito, then it was not asked, for example, of the people of Istria whether or not a thermal power plant should be installed in Plomino, it was built, then it came to him to worship the whole of Istria, Rijeka, etc., but I want to say that today is another time and maybe even a Plomin 3 thermal power plant is the best thing that can happen, but I still think that these things should be left for citizens to decide how through the referendum. And the fact that only the citizens of Labinjština come forward or join the referendum, they should be the ones who should make that decision, not Buzestin, Porestine or Bujština, because the others are not directly interested, we would find it difficult to come to this referendum, and that the referendum should be managed by more than 50% of the citizens, and therefore the decision should be left to those who are life-interested and those are citizens of Labinjština. But let's let it go now. What if we care clearly about people's health, then we have to give them a chance to decide. Once again, what may be a central question to me, are we going to submit a referendum to the citizens to point out whether or not they are for the European Union, for example to submit to the elections themselves? It is understandable that we are all here in some way for Europe, although at least I personally don't think Europe will solve all our problems, but it is certain that without Europe it could be far more difficult for us. Finally, for 75 thousand lost jobs in the last year, for the decline of gross products by 6%, the decline of imports, exports, of 15% and 20%, the increase in unemployment of 19% in one year is not Brussels, but let's recognise the world's opportunities, but dominantly, we blame ourselves. I repeat, Europe is certainly an opportunity, but the same thing should be known that nothing will be given to us in this Europe, but it is good that citizens somehow understand or understand with Europe, it will be difficult without the European Union, we will find it difficult to rise from the crisis. Some here also mentioned Croatian-Slovenian relations, until we ratified a harmful arbitration agreement with Slovenia, while we did not, do not literally understand me as a "gifted" a good part of the Piran Bay of Slovenia, Slovenia has permanently blocked the opening or closing of certain chapters, but here I am asking myself the question of who today is blocking the opening of some questions. On the other hand, we all know that in the 6th month Slovenia will have to call it all the people's referendum on the fate of the Piran Bay, which if the referendum does not go on how Slovenian politics will be set afterwards, will Croatia be blackmailed as well. What is certainly equally important, if not more important, is who today in Brussels, in Strasbourg, in the European Union is blocking us, who is holding us back today, who won't let us close some chapters today, or why we're opening another, why we're being blackmailed, or maybe we're not doing all the commitments we've made at the end and implementing. It is clear that we in the IDS Club are absolutely for this report, we are also for the European Union, I have told the Constitution, as it is proposed, if a double right of minority vote is not put in place, I will not, much segregation, much discrimination on those political options that most sincerely represent these minority issues, let it go along with this European package into this proposed constitutional solution. Someone mentioned the problem, or rather all the shipbuilding clubs, that must be one of the most complex issues. The bankruptcy, said the chairman of the Committee, Ms Pusic, is not a liquidation, it is certainly true, but if the state does not agree at this time with the banks or bankers directly to us, it can come to the collection of more than €11.12 billion of guaranteed guarantees issued and if that were to happen, then the Croatian shipbuilding bankruptcy and the bankruptcy of the Croatian state would take place. However, I do not think that in 2012, unfortunately, all the shipbuildings of Uljanik, Kraljevica, 3 May, Trogir, Split on those shipyards will survive, I think, on these large shipyards I think. The oil company certainly will, but I'm afraid all the shipyards won't. Someone who mentioned the tax chapter, or talked about VAT, cancels the zero rate. We'll see when that happens. So it will be another one in a series of blows to the standard of Croatian citizens. Although to be cynical I don't know what else might hit us in this country, surprise us when it comes to standard, but it's certain that the elimination of zero VAT on bread, on milk, on children's supplies, etc. He'll feel the weakest. All in all, Europe needs us. But let's not fool ourselves about getting better overnight in these places. Here I am glad that today in this House and the representatives of the Slovak Parliament's Finance Committee when we were Switzerland, today they are Switzerland for us, and we are standing or turning back. All in all, it is good that this committee is formed and it is good that, in some ways, Croatian representatives are reported on the issue of Croatian diplomacy or the Croatian Government, and we will support it as clearly as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51746	We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51747	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting Mr Cain's claim that by ratifying the arbitration agreement, the Croatian Parliament has donated a significant part of the territory and the Piran Bay to the Republic of Slovenia. Not that it is incorrect, but it is a lie, because by ratifying the arbitration agreement, the Croatian Parliament has allowed the arbitration court to establish the border in the Savudrija vala on the principles and rules of international law. So I think it was my turn to correct that incorrect assumption because it's not true, the other thing is that it's Mr. Cain's opinion, but it's absolutely not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51748	Thank you. It is the turn of the SDSS Club's distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51749	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam President of the National Committee, colleagues and colleagues. It is of course my pleasure to speak after the clubs which have so far spoken and the distinguished representatives of clubs, especially fellow Caine, who is one of the most consistent representatives of this Parliament when it comes to what he calls the double right of vote. I'd like to say a few words. First, I would like to express my satisfaction that, as a member of the National Committee, I am taking part in the work of the Committee, given how it is led and how much and what degree of responsibility fellow Members and colleagues from all political parties contribute to the quality of the work of that committee and contribute to the quality of the negotiation process on the parliamentary side. And I would, of course, like to point out my satisfaction and in some sense thank you with what the Committee president does in view of his position and given his reputation as a representative of this House in different places in Europe with other colleagues and colleagues of other parliaments, but not just the parliaments in promoting our negotiating interests and our negotiating aspirations. In that sense, in the name of the SDSS club, I can say there's no reason why we can't support this report from the National Committee. But I would like to say a few things about that report, and regarding the overall negotiation process, especially some of its segments. And I would like to express three concerns about this process or three concerns about this process. First, I would like to express concerns about Chapter 23, given the state of the non-negotiable process, but given the state of activity relating to the realization of what is the content of Chapter 23. Here our negotiators are roughly in the position of elite units entering the area of protection of strategic interests and doing so well when they reach or reach the point to which they should be sent, and then they suffer when they return home. And that's because at home or at home, you'd say they're going through that field that's filled with all kinds of difficulties, all kinds of traps and all kinds of different obstacles. I'll just mention a few things. The implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities unfortunately faces difficulties, challenges. You all know that local elections were held in May of last year, you also know that it is in line with the provisions of the Constitutional Law, the Election Law 90 days since the regular elections were scheduled for additional elections for the addition of municipal, urban and county assemblies, and for the selection of mayors, mayors and mayors from the ranks of members of national minorities. In three counties, so here it is now almost a year then, these elections are not called because they do not comply with the statutes of those units of local self-government with the constitutional law with the law and with the government's decision. In some of these statutes, meanwhile, were either fully or partially harmonised, and in some unfortunately about 15 units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, this has not yet happened. Why? We don't have the right answer. Does this mean that all others who have done so have acted against the law or these 15 act against the law by refusing to enforce laws that have been in force since 2003? If so, if resistance and difficulties are created on a relatively formal basis in the implementation of constitutional law, then of course the question is how can we convince the negotiators on the European side that things are really right at home. Another thing I'd like to warn you about was something I heard very recently, almost this morning, that it's more important for us to collect information about who the persons responsible for the crimes committed against the members of the Croatian Army and the German army in the '41 period. By '45. in the area of cut Lower Lapac, as does the County Court in Gospić, calling for talks or for statements from persons born in '41. or born right before World War II. And we don't care who set the Serb on fire 16 days after the storm ended and who lit the Lower Lapac a few weeks later. We don't care who took down the monument in Serbia, and we don't care who devastated the monument in Jadovna so that he stands devastated until today. If we think that this is how we will promote and protect the fundamental values of the European Union and the fundamental values of the rule of law in our country, then I think we are having a hard time cheating. Mr. Vice President, I'm afraid so. And for this reason, I am expressing concern about how to approach the realization of what is written in the negotiating position of 23. Justice and the rule of law. Another thing I'd like to say is this question of the public campaigns already mentioned, or so on. communication with the public. There is no doubt that it is necessary to develop communication with the public and to the public when it comes to this matter, therefore, and the process of negotiations with the European Union, but it cannot be its own purpose, because it will return to us as a boomerang and the public, as it is already becoming a bit true, will disgust the story of Europe instead of being served as the most exciting and most desirable bite we need to make in politics. We must absolutely avoid our communication strategy towards the European Union being a matter for internal political needs and being a thing for covering what we cannot or cannot achieve in the internal political needs. Because there is a danger that what I, as a representative of this Assembly, hear in different places in direct contact with our citizens and say is not that Europe is more important to you than Croatia, and it is not important that you develop a strategy on how to reach Europe, not how to develop the situation in Croatia. For this reason, I, colleagues and colleagues, call on us to deal with a communication strategy, but with a communication strategy that will be realistic, which will not show unreal projections about what awaits us in the European Union and what is the situation in the European Union. In this regard, I would also warn my colleagues and colleagues, given what these days seems to be about the issue of constitutional change. The issue of the Constitution or Europe is not a dilemma and must not be a dilemma. If we are unable to reach consensus on the issue of constitutional changes that are necessary for Croatia, which are necessary for Croatia and which parties here have almost achieved a reduction of the whole work on constitutional changes only on the European story confirms that we are unable to deal with what is of great interest to Croatia. And it is possible that in these constitutional changes, and I, as a member of the Working Group for the Making of Amendments to the Constitution, know that there has been a huge interest in Croatia since the year for amending and supplementing the Constitution, and we must not give up on that. Not because we want to give up the European process but because it is extremely important for what I am going to say in the third segment of what I have as part of my promise. And this third segment applies to this, I hope that we will finish our negotiations by the end of the year, as I trust with my colleagues and colleagues from the SDSS Club will do our utmost to make our country a member of the European Union by 2012. However, I think it is time that we start preparing ourselves not for what the European Parliament will look like with us, although it is a very important question how many Croatian MPs will sit in the European Parliament, but that is certainly not a key issue. The key question is what after that, what we as a country after we become a member, after we finish negotiations, is what we expect from the European Union. What is our positioning within the European Union? What and what policy in protecting what is Croatian interest is we intend to develop and apply when we enter the European Union? Given the experience of other countries, given our experience, I think it's time we started discussing it. If not particularly publicly, then at least in the circles that need to create that policy for tomorrow's Croatia in tomorrow's Europe. I would prefer to talk about it, colleagues and colleagues, rather than about imaginary communication strategies that will not improve the situation in Croatia, but which, as I said, can seriously endanger the feeling of an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia about what we give priority, to them or to membership. For this reason, I want to share these three concerns with you and I wanted to share them with the Croatian public. I am a pro-European-oriented politician, but with this kind of policy, I think we risk the pro-European mood in Croatia shrinking rather than increasing. And for that reason, I think and believe that, together with all the members and members and the president, the National Committee will do everything possible to make some of these aspects that I don't claim to be in everyone's right and I wish I wasn't. But that some of these aspects are being discussed and that we try to see what it is that we need to do to improve things in these respects in some way. We are not here as the National Committee and as Parliament only because of the technical level of monitoring of the negotiations. We are here because of his deep and important political philosophy. And that's what I wanted to say. Of course, technical aspects are important today. But also this political must not be lost from sight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51750	Thank you. One correction. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51751	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's Pupovac's representative said he heard that it was more important for us to investigate the perpetrators of some World War II crimes in the Lapca area if I remembered well, and we don't care and it's not important to prosecute Homeland War crimes and determine who committed those crimes. I don't know who Mr. Representative meant by us. But I'll say if this was about me or the Croatian government or the Croatian state, that it's important for the Croatian state and for me to process every crime equal to crime, the same war crime doesn't get old. Therefore, every crime should be prosecuted equally. And that Croatia has not fulfilled the process of war crimes from the Homeland War is simply not true because it is one of the criteria for opening negotiations and in chapter 23, the impartiality and credibility of the Croatian judiciary is also an analysis of war trials for war crimes. So here it is in January 2010 we have one full analysis The Justice Departments of War Crimes cases, which show exactly who it is and how it is processed in relation to even members of individual nationalities. [[Intruder Shakespeare: Good.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51752	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51753	Mr. Vice President, Madam President of the National Committee, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this report, but you will allow me to add to this debate some other elements that have been partly opened by my colleague Mimica and colleague Pupovac. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, after the deblockation by the Slovenian government continued, six new chapters were opened, ten chapters were closed. What made us particularly happy in the National Committee was the fact that we heard from the main negotiators and later we saw that the working group had started working, which is that a working group was formed to draw up a draft contract for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. She started working on December 16th. It's really a very positive shift. Furthermore, when the European Union adopted a financial package for Croatia, it was an additional very positive sign. We see that Croatia is obliged in 2012 and the thirteenth to pay just over 600m euros. But Croatia has the opportunity to withdraw about a billion and a half euros in 12 years, and a year later, as much as two billion euros. Of course, appropriate projects should be prepared for this, and it is a very serious job that awaits us all together, especially the Croatian Government. But in addition to our detailed colleagues and colleagues analyzed, so the government's negotiating positions were complemented, we analysed all the criteria, we clearly set up reading to our negotiating team about their application, installing them into our legislation. We have considered the exemptions that the negotiating team will seek, the deadlines on which they will require that these exemptions apply and, no doubt, the National Committee has made a major contribution to the process of approaching the European Union. What we are then, and I believe this applies to all of you fellow members of the National Committee. In our clubs, we created an atmosphere that we really must help to bring it together and bring it together as quickly as possible and bring the legislation in line and we have all done very well together. What I would say more, however, has devoted more time to the issue of implementation. So, the application of all that we have incorporated into our legislation and what my colleague Pupovac was now talking about, the application of these standards, the application of standards, the application of European philosophy in our everyday behavior. My colleagues and colleagues, there have been relatively little words here about what the European Commission thinks about this six-month period that we are now discussing. And we also didn't say much about what citizens think about our work. This is fellow Matušić, although he mentioned communication with citizens, but I would only devote a few big minutes in this direction. Look, first of all, the European Commission says what it says about the period that we are considering today. In her conclusions, she says in a report on Croatia's accession to the European Union. First, it is necessary to reform the state administration and strengthen the fight against corruption in the state administration system. It's something we can't push under the carpet, and in this kind of debate, we need to see openly what we are and what we haven't done. Then, as far as judicial reform is concerned, the European Commission points out that the Law on the Selection of Judges and State Lawyers will only be passed, and the European Commission considers it extremely important for it to be consistently implemented. Thirdly, the European Commission welcomes the establishment of the Office for Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, and welcomes the activities of USKOK. Still, it believes that corruption prevailing in a large number of areas remains observed. Then, the European Commission also mentions minority issues. That's what my colleague Pupovci was talking about. I don't have to explain more widely. He's already done it in detail. Furthermore, the European Commission has particularly highlighted the difficulties in joining the Hague tribunal, so-called "the Hague tribunal". the artillery logs. With regard to the economic criteria in the first half of 2009, they say unemployment increased, we know that it was also related to the second half of the year, and structural reforms have progressed at a slow pace, which is the European Commission's assessment. As for the investment climate, the European Commission says it is still suffering from a high administrative burden. So that's what the international community thinks, about what we did last year. What do our citizens say? You probably all get from various associations of citizens, various associations of individual examples that should be held here during these discussions. I'll talk about what the Rijeka scientists told me and ask me to say here. My colleagues and colleagues, we temporarily closed the chapter of science and research almost four years ago, which was in the 6th month of 2006, which was the first chapter we closed. What we did to implement then is agreed. At that time, we had an objection to Europe to single out only 1.1% of the gross social product for science and research, and we promised to increase that amount. The goal was, a distant target of 3% as the Swedes do, the Germans are just below 3% and many others. My colleagues and colleagues, we did not get close to that goal, we reduced the separation for science and research to 0.9%, so that just in the period we're discussing, we'd have additional information that came from the Ministry of Science. You'll let me just find those documents and I'll read it to you. First of all, the decision to suspend co-financing of the activities of the 7th Framework Programme of the European Research and Technological Development Community. Minister Fuchs signed a decision a month ago setting aside a decision to co-finance the activities of the 7th Framework Programme of the European Research and Technological Development Community since 8 September 2008 and nevertheless says the decision takes effect on the date of its adoption and applies retroactively from 1 June of last year. So that's our support, that's our implementation of the already closed chapter. Also colleagues and colleagues, what happened to 2 thousand 299 scientific projects, national projects funded by the Ministry of Science? This requires the basis of a contract signed by the minister with the contractors of these projects, 149 million kuna should be allocated for all these projects. The minister informs scientists that this is not possible because only 112 million kuna were secured in 2009 and not 149 and since 10 months last year, the total funding of all scientific projects in the Republic of Croatia has been cut short. Is this support for the implementation of the already closed chapter of science and research? Certainly colleagues and colleagues that it isn't. Did the minister inform us in advance that he would stop funding? Did we break the contracts? No, I don't. No notice has arrived, the contracts haven't been terminated. I wonder what the minister expects of scientists, doesn't finance them, and by contract he has obliged them to realize that, that and that during the period on which the contract was concluded. Therefore, this is not a European way of acting, this is not acceptable, and this is clearly an example of how serious we are to implement European standards and standards in our daily work. Another example that I can briefly put out here, even though maybe, here's just the end of it if we had a comparison. I mentioned 149 million needed to finance 2,000 299 projects involving some 10,000 Croatian scientists. Look, just for peace projects, we here colleagues and colleagues have raised our hands to raise more than 400 million kuna, for 400 of our soldiers primarily in Afghanistan. So almost 3 times as much as necessary for all scientific projects in Croatia. So what are our priorities? And if I could remind you a little about how much those sports halls cost for the World Handball Championship, that amount was enough to finance all the projects in Croatia for a period of 50 years, but it was not our priority. I will return to the European Commission report where they say structural reforms have progressed at a slow pace. Two days ago, I participated in a debate in Rijeka with the people of May 3rd and the prominent owners of the Primorje-Gorski County, and then I heard something that really surprised me. The management of May 3rd is back in '89, '90. The year prepared was one detailed plan for the privatisation of shipbuilding, May 3rd. Since then, I've been replaced by 10, 12, 14 directors, the director of May 3rd. No one has ever drawn that document, put it on the table of the economy minister, the government and said let's start from here, 10 years Europe through the Stabilisation and Association Agreement warns to restructure the shipbuilding, restructure the shipbuilding. No one's ever done anything, except replace the principals and patch the holes. This is not a European way of acting, if we continue to agree with our colleague, Pupovac, then we will really not achieve what we want to join Europe. I don't care whether we enter a year sooner or later, but I don't care when we start applying those standards, norms and that European philosophy in our daily work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51754	Thank you. In 10 and 57, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Here's the matter, so the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from July 1st to December 31st 2009 actually covered a wide range, a wide range of topics that speakers here had presented before me. Not to say from Lapca to investment in science in the Republic of Croatia and all the way to Brussels. It is clear that it is very important in the debate to point out that there is a significant parallel between what has been asked for in the negotiations with the EU, then what has been achieved in the negotiations with the EU, but also what has been applied or implemented, as someone has said here, and in connection with our procedures, our thinking and application of EU standards in the Republic of Croatia. The report of the National Committee shows that three negotiating chapters remain unopened. That 18 chapters were closed or temporarily closed, that 12 other chapters were still open. This is the report, so in addition to this report, is this second, to say the report, so from April 2009. The December report, either at the end of December or after the new year of 2010, is therefore not the same. The situation is not the same in that report and the situation in April 2009 although the National Committee will submit a new report after 6 months this year. So I don't understand why here is increasing or deepening, to say balance, open, closed and what's left because this add-on report was added from April 2009 even though it's the subject of today's debate, so the period 01 July to 31 December 2009? I guess because of the impression that we've made significant progress. Although there are brakes that are clear to all, all known and why Croatia's EU accession has slowed. When we talk about closed, sorry, about the chapters left to open, then it is seen that this is an external, security and defence policy in which Slovenia plays a major role. Despite the adoption of the arbitration agreement in the Croatian Parliament, despite the fact that the Croatian government rejected the possibility of a referendum in the Republic of Croatia on the subject of the standards of 500 thousand signatures, and the possibility of a referendum and a referendum decision was left in Slovenia, Slovenia continues to block this chapter. Most likely until the judgment of the arbitration court, and this will be as we have made our own decision here, as Mr Cain said, he did call it the Piran Bay, not the Saudria Wave. It's all spoken by the very name of that sea surface. The judiciary and fundamental rights are related to the opening and closing of chapters related to reports by the Hague prosecutor, above all, and then to some and other factors. But first of all, from the report of the Hague prosecutor. And yesterday, the day before yesterday, I heard a report from the Hague prosecutor that the artillery logs are still not complete and that thing is still standing. It is interesting that according to that, and I don't know, Bosnian or Croatian, the cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you, that the Hague prosecutor is responsible for the report and for giving the green light, not the Hague court, the Hague prosecutor who collects evidence and we have to give it to him in order to sue Croatia. It is a very interesting case and a very interesting conclusion that the prosecution is that, therefore, one that collects evidence that needs to be subsidized to confirm the indictment. That's right, cadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you. And so it is with our opening of the Justice and Fundamental Rights Chapter. In addition, the other factor is clearly corruption, which does not care how the European Commission itself stated in its report. These cases that are here, let me say, that fill the news columns are here so I'm not going to say the cover, but maybe one just beginning, one tip of the iceberg that is in Croatia another nine tenths below the sea surface as much as there is. And that's why in 2012, I'm not going to go into grades, I know there will be a correction here, it's a very optimistic year for Mrs. National Committee President and for those who, the HDZ Club, Mr. Matosic, and it's really news to me because we've always, very often here said that this is, to say, one of the maximum effects of the Croatian government and in negotiations with the EU in 2013. Here, I see in 2012 it's the one that's being mentioned now. Furthermore, the third chapter which has not yet been opened is the Competition Chapter. In fact, translated into other words of shipbuilding which, I say, is one stumbling block that has been invested in restructuring, as it is called, billions of kuna and euros over the past 10, 12 years, and the situation is what it is. Well someone has noticed here that we need to find a measure between what is European civil law which is unique for all of Europe and what is a Croatian-specific. Which is, therefore, a Croatian speciality. And I think there is room in the negotiation process for Croatia to highlight, even impose, if not all its speciality in the negotiations, at least part. As did other countries that joined the European Union in particular Poland, etc. When we look at open negotiating chapters, then I find chapter 22 Regional Policy and the coordination of structural instruments. Therefore, it is regional policy and in the report of the National Committee on this chapter, Chapter 22 states that the work until 1 July to 31 December did not discuss or receive documents relating to this chapter, that is to say chapter on regional policy. Furthermore, in the last debate when there has been a report for the past six months, I have talked about it, even asking the president of the National Committee whether she knows whether or not she knows Croatia's platform in the agriculture chapter, so in negotiations with the European Union, she said she doesn't know, so you said. How much smarter we are today and as far as we know, that we know anything more about the platform, about Croatia's starting points in the agriculture chapter, and this concerns Slavonia and Baranja in particular. This especially affects the Croatian peasant, so not only in Slavonia and Baranja but also wider. Which is why there's no such thing as public opinion. As politicians like to say transparency, so that the public gets to know that there is a broader framework, a way to approach, how to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia what is in a particular chapter of the negotiations and what are the starting points of the Republic of Croatia, so that they are directed, so that they know how to say the pro-European opinion is becoming increasingly stronger and vice versatile, thus anti-Europeanly becoming weaker. And then we wonder why they agree or prepare constitutional changes. In particular, the article seems to me to be Mr. Shakespeare 141. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in which it clearly writes what response and how many voters, the voters must give their consent for, theirs for Croatia's entry into the European Union and the accession of some community of states or association with another state, and then we go to a reduction of that censorship to go on a proposal to only half of those who go out for a referendum, which, if it's so nice in Europe and we're not afraid, we want so much in Europe. I'm asking again why you're reducing that censorship. So don't we flock there, isn't our entire people happy to go to the European Union, it will be plebiscite yes, won't it? Or is it just the success of this government's entry into the NATO Pact and possibly the conclusion of negotiations with the European Union, and that's all that can be classified as saying, in favour of this government. As far as citizens are concerned, as far as the standard of citizens has reached, is this the only thing this government is aiming at, is whether this government has as an argument as someone has said, the elections that should be after February 2011. What is the priority, which is the championship, the standard of citizens, the life of citizens, the living standards, the conditions of life of citizens, or the fact that we have joined or completed negotiations with the European Union, under what conditions? Slovenian? So what's the point if there's no content in this country, if our young people are going abroad with bread, if this country is left without the best part of its population. I'm not a Eurosceptic, so I'm not a Eurosceptic, but first of all, I'm a Eurosceptic. That is why I think that the public also has the right to know what is being negotiated, how the negotiations are being negotiated and what are the conditions that Croatia should meet on its way to the European Union not to enter in humiliated and on its knees, but to be proud as it has always been, part of Europe, European Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51756	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Grčić's club of representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51757	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Committee, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The negotiations with the European Union are going in a good direction, according to this Report covering the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009, the negotiations in chapters 17 are closed. Since yesterday's conference on the accession of the European Union to Brussels, another chapter has been closed, freedom of movement of goods, a very important chapter, one of the cornerstones of the internal market in which there were four closure criteria and thus the number of closed chapters has increased to 18. It also encourages the announced possibility of holding another conference on the accession of the European Union during May of this year. As for the dynamics of the negotiations, the opening of yet unopened chapters, and the closure of those open, for the sake of the Croatian public and ourselves, it is important that Croatia is ready to open and close all deadlines within very short deadlines, but that it is also about negotiations, and that every negotiation is about will, that it is about the will of both partners in the negotiation process. It is also important to point out that the negotiating position has been adopted as regards the negotiations on the often public and media of the mentioned chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. However, it will also decide on its opening, or closing, the political will of certain Member States which base their views on the chapter on the report by Hague prosecutor Serge Brammertz. Regardless of the court's point of view and the fact that the prosecution is only one party in the process. Nevertheless, it is worth noting the determination and commitment of the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in these negotiations and the strategic national objective of our country's entry into the European Union. And among other things, the negotiations have been unblocked and progressed. I do not want to touch any more recent Slovenian blockades and efforts made by the Croatian side in its removal. However, in this place, on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party, I would like to express satisfaction with the ratification of the arbitration agreement on the border in the Slovenian Parliament as well as the belief that the recent national referendum in Slovenia will confirm the wish of the Slovenian people for friendly and good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Croatia and our people. The Parliament has carried out a large part of its obligations related to European legislation and there has been no place for a delay in the process of approaching the European Union. We believe that we will carry out our obligations successfully and to the end and thus enable the conclusion of the negotiation process. We believe that we will do everything necessary to adapt the Parliament to the new conditions of action in accordance with the obligations arising from the Lisbon Treaty. In particular, on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party, I would like to commend the work of the main negotiator and his team, without whose commitment the negotiation process would not be possible. We also support the European Parliament's intention to develop a strategy for the National Committee's performance towards the European Union's parliaments, as well as for the European Parliament to confirm our accession treaty so that it can be implemented as quickly and as easily as possible. We support and believe it is necessary to strengthen communication with citizens, in line with the communication strategy, and all to inform the Croatian public about the European Union and our preparations for our membership. We stress and point out the need for information on the procedures related to our preparations and the internal arrangements of the Republic of Croatia. Our country's entry into the European Union is the most important event in Croatian modern history after the creation of a modern democratic Croatian sovereign state at the end of the last century and entering the Northwest Union on April 1st of last year. We can only reach this strategic goal at the most recent time by putting together all relevant factors in the Republic of Croatia. Calling on this unity in everyday work and action, I would like to point out that the Croatian Peasant Party will support the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51758	Thank you. National Committee Chairman Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51759	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I really thank all the participants in this debate about the report of the National Committee which I was sure of for all the members and members of the National Committee and for me extremely educational, quality and helpful. It's not that often, but it really helps in this case. I thank, of course, all the members and members of the National Committee who have worked on this topic since I would say that after the Homeland War, the first political consensus we have in Croatia and all those involved in the work of the National Committee maintain this political consensus that is a new experience for us and, in my opinion, forms and manifestations of certain political maturation. A few things that were warned in the debate, what the last Greek fellow said on behalf of the HSS Club, I'll say first because in terms of some kind of apology. Namely, since this last table we attached came to you before yesterday in the procedure, we warned, in the end it didn't happen. Then Chapter One is here in the open, not the closed negotiating chapters, so freedom of movement of trenches. So the situation really is that 12 are open, not closed chapters, 18 open and closed and 3 still open. So, the freedom of movement of goods from the chapter open goes into chapters closed going after yesterday. Now a few things that the participants in the debate have warned about. First, to communicate the results of the negotiations to the public. Of course, the fact that we're having a debate now in April is somehow leading us into an attack to discuss what is now, not the period for which this report is for, and it's natural and good. I am merely warning that the report contains what is simply covered by this report, so July 1st to December 31st 2009. A public communication of several people mentioned it in the debate, it is indeed a problem. We must deal with this problem both in content and methodologically. So what are the key things that need to be communicated to the public and one way. One of the things that has not been discussed so far, and I mentioned that we have prepared it on the National Committee and is at your disposal, and we will include in the next report for this six-month period, is, in all chapters, what we have been looking for and what we have received, in those chapters where the negotiations are temporarily closed or completed. As we succeed in certain things, it really depends on our ability to prepare ourselves, or the ability of the government to prepare the country for what awaits us in this regard. None of these things are in themselves positive or negative. It's as positive as we can take advantage of the circumstances, and it's as negative as we can't use them. So, as far as we do all of these things can be used for the good of the country and for the development of the country, and of course they can be both harmful or at least untapped, and then we didn't take advantage of something that was our chance. These funds are available to us in the financial envelope for 2012, 2013 before the next budgetary period in the European Union. We can turn out to be net payers like we did for the Bulgarian case in one year or we can profit. But it really does not depend on the European Union, it depends on our ability to take advantage of the situation. So, in itself, whether some of the consequences will be positive or negative cannot be determined regardless of whether we are prepared and how we are prepared. And that is why it is important to be obvious and not to hide, to face the real situation that will take place at the time of our entry or our full membership in the European Union in order to prepare themselves. I think I've mentioned the shipbuilding case more than once. It doesn't make sense, it's not reasonable to say that no one in the shipbuilding is going to lose their jobs. It will. But at the same time there are over a billion euros in those funds in '12. and '13. to create new jobs. It should be focused on projects that can be financed from these funds to provide people with requalification for those jobs that can be opened by these means, so as to ensure a normal transition from one shipbuilding state to another. It is much more useful to face these facts and to start working in a way or strategies of a positive solution to this situation than to pretend that it does not exist and then face the situation when it is too late and not the projects will be completed in time. Preparation of the Croatian Assembly for Membership. Something has been said, it's one topic that will certainly be discussed on the National Committee this semester, this six-month period. After this year, the project started and it is an unusually important topic. This will certainly be discussed on the National Committee. It might not be bad to say this at the plenary session of Parliament once, because it is primarily about the relations between the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government when Croatia becomes a member of the European Union where only members of the Croatian government will represent it in European institutions, not representatives of the Croatian Parliament and of course representatives of the European Parliament who will be elected in general elections, but there will be no representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Efficientness in the communication of the European Union with citizens, I repeat, for us, is extremely important, one of the first things in my opinion, which our task is to demystify the European Union, i.e. transforming the European Union and all its membership into something that is normal, usable, recognizable and useful for every human being. It's very important to us. In this context, the National Committee will show one Slovak film and we will invite all representatives, a documentary on three representatives of a village in Slovakia who are going to lobby in Brussels for a project in their village. It is precisely to demystify what the European Union means, that this is not just something to talk about in shorts in an incomprehensible way but rather something that is usable, tangible, recognizable to the everyday life of people. We have examples in Croatia where certain municipalities and cities have already used European funds very successfully for their own development. It is something that is usable, of course, and where the functioning of our institutions is improved is also something that needs to be shown to people and shown to ourselves. We ourselves sometimes think of the European Union as something very abstract, and we find it difficult to associate it with real, everyday life, and that should be my idea of leadership. In this direction, the National Committee will also launch an initiative to communicate Europe to citizens. And finally the truth is I think that, if you allow me another half minute, my colleague Grubisic said, it is true that he considered one of the key threats to the conclusion of our negotiations as to the European side, and I am among other things in a very comprehensive conversation with the new Enlargement Commissioner, Mr File, also received this information that one of the key dangers to the end of the negotiations is the Brammertz prosecutor's report, namely co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Not because Prosecutor Brammertz could influence this, but because Member States, certain Member States, have decided to use it as a criterion. This is largely a political problem, but we are entering a political association, so we must also work with political instruments to address the obstacles that are being set up for us. So this is something that is important, in my opinion, something in which the National Committee should also involve itself, including the Croatian Parliament, but the fact that it is an obstacle from the outside should not close our eyes to what is important to us, which is the beginning, in this chapter of the judiciary and fundamental rights, which is the beginning of implementation of the reform, so implementation, implementation of judicial reform and a new way of selecting and promoting judges by objective criteria, not arbitration courts. This is crucial for us, and our criteria must be higher than European ones, because that is the purpose of the whole process. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51760	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam President of the National Committee, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I support the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009, but I must stress here my special concern with regard to Chapter 23, Chapters on Justice and Human Rights. The non-opening of this chapter thus shows regardless of political evaluations and what Mrs. President has said which is the main reason, but it is not just that. You citizens in Croatia know that well. Namely, this chapter of justice and human rights as a wedge has been stuck in a car that should lead us to Europe. This is a serious problem, and this is more serious not only with the autonomous problems that the judiciary has in Croatia, unfortunately in many countries and almost impeccable democracy of the judiciary is becoming the main problem. This is not an excuse for us but a warning that even with greater caution and caution we need to see what is wrong with this reform and what are the things that need to be strengthened. In this respect, the implementation of reform procedures more than any normative or legislative amendment is an important attitude of the government towards an independent judiciary. This attitude between the government and the government towards the judiciary lately and in recent years, especially lately, has been worrying. A relationship that has power over its special some agents as dangerous as possible was best shown by the head of one intelligence agency, the Operational Technical Centre for the Control of Communications when all municipal and county courts were past the knowledge of the Supreme Court and its president chose to give guidance on how the courts were to behave. It was a particular case so that when the courts approve certain orders, I would ask this gentleman to have insight into it to inform him as head of an intelligence agency, agent. Mrs. Prime Minister didn't respond to that. The government didn't react to that. I think it's one of the most serious attacks on judicial independence. What kind of message is it then to other bodies and public administrations and to anyone else and even to the police themselves to refer to the judiciary. It's one such blow that will make us hard, hard to recover from. Will such an act contribute to the self-awareness of judges and justice as a whole. Rate it yourself. So the conclusion is self-inflicted. So the Prime Minister didn't react to what she said, which means she agrees that she doesn't see anything contentious, nothing observable about it. So when that is the case, in order to open chapter 23 on justice and human rights as soon as possible, and to give it a nice copy of that guideline to the European Commission to see how the rule of law applies here to the judiciary. Perhaps it will speed up the opening of that chapter. I mean, that's one serious question, but that's what the government is silent about. And so things continued to spread out. So if he doesn't react to this sharp stuff, that car will go downhill, and they're barely going downhill. Namely, the relationship of the executive authority, and here I will mention in this context the judiciary which necessarily must cooperate with the relationship of the regular authorities. In the new concept of the Code of Criminal Procedure, when we had just given the state's attorney great powers so that the procedure, in particular the criminal procedure, was speeded up as quickly as possible. We gave him great responsibility. He's got binding orders to the police. But the police shouldn't be responsible for that, because this government didn't have the strength to put part of its regular forces under the control of the state's attorney. Because logically in all these concepts that have an identical concept of regular force, the police in that segment are responding to the state's attorney's office. That's right in Italy, that's right in Germany, that's right in all countries, but not in our country. And then what happens? One normal consequence of an abnormal condition is the fact that the police have put the main part in the service to assess the decisions of the state's attorney. It wasn't once. That was several times, not to mention the orders issued by the former prime minister. It's a finished story. But obviously, it's a habit, these customs that they stayed, that they were still in flames. Thus, the German Constitutional Court, in respect of the Law on the Intelligence Community, reacts in a way regardless of any directive of the European Union and repeals the provisions, and we also have those provisions in our Law on the Intelligence Community that everyone may have, i.e. to record all phone calls, all e-mails, all faxes of citizens, with the view that this is a harsh violation of the privacy of citizens. Although this norm has entered under the justification of the European Directive. That's how the German Constitutional Court reacted, and it wasn't enough for us, and he ordered that all these databases of such records be destroyed at the moment, and they had an obligation for six months, and we have, right now, to be greater popes than the Pope to be installed in our legislation to keep those data for a year. And why am I bringing this up? Because the problem of human rights with this chapter 23 is seriously at stake. So, not only is the European Commission talking about it, but a US State Department is talking about a worrying level of human rights in Croatia. And that's the chapter. We will often hear from the ruling that some laws that are being proposed here, that come before us, and that would agree not to bring them in, that we do not coordinate and spend taxpayers' money on a mere harmonisation that we must do, but we must act first and foremost. But we always point out, always by presenting legislative proposals, that we do not do so for the sake of the European Union but for ourselves. Well, you see what my colleague Pupovac has well pointed out to the questions that are now being imposed recently on this topic with changes to the Constitution, Europe or the Constitution that is a false dilemma. There's no such dilemma. Some things have to be done here. It's not our citizens that are less important than the elite who will take them there and deliver ruthless and unprotected capital. So these are human rights, and I particularly apostrophe for their protection. We need to take these people seriously here. It doesn't work for anyone. None of us, if found or in any ordinary civil case before the court, would like the police to assess that this is the case, which was decided by the state's attorney's office or later by the court. This happens in Croatia and no one reacts to it alive. I ask that this is a matter of interest to the protection of human rights and fundamental rights. After all, the independence of the judiciary does not exist for the sake of judges, but exists for the sake of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51762	Thank you. Correction, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51763	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here was the whole, whole series of incorrect allegations, but I will only correct one, and it is said that we will not recover from that difficult blow, and that this prevents our entry into the European Union and the fulfilment of the criteria in chapter 23, and this is about the guidance issued by the head of the Technical Operations Centre, the technical direction given to the courts, and in terms of asking for talks. So this is about one awkwardness, indeed a member of the executive authority to the courts to which the President of the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice responded immediately, with a warning to the executive authority, the head immediately apologized, withdrew this guidance, and this problem of communication at technical level is currently being addressed in the Ministry of Justice, a working group was established, therefore there will be no consequences, and there will be no unrecovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51764	Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51765	Thank you. I think colleague Antunovic you're right when, Ingrid.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51766	And why aren't you careful?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51767	A lot of women. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51768	Don't do such guffs At first, yes. [[/Intruder: Over and over again.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51769	Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51770	Repeat everything nicely. To apologize and repeat everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51771	Okay, so this is what counterpart Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic said about justice and fundamental rights, that is, Chapter 23. I think he's quite right and that it's bad that this chapter isn't open, I would remind you of some corruption affairs that we have, I would like to remind you that the legal provisions have changed in relation to the state's attorney, but also that some of the situations have not been resolved. These issues of police relations and state attorneys, the question that has come in the worst possible way as previously regulated in the law to express it is precisely in the affair of the ship's Split, and even with these new changes, some inexplicables, then the role of the intelligence community and its rights to record our talks, e-mails, textes, etc., puts us to the question whether we are at risk of having fundamental human rights and whether the dilemma, as a colleague of Ingrid Europe has said, or accepting some proposals, rights, real dilemmas, I think that we will enter Europe the best when we first regulate legislation here in Croatia so that it is not at the expense of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51772	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51773	I'm going to repeat my colleague Jurevic, which is basically, except for this normative, and most importantly. A political climate in which these laws that we bring here must be implemented. You also mentioned the fight against corruption and how it's going. With us, every little businessman who dares to report a case of corruption ends up with the financial police coming to him the next day or the tax administration. And that's our fight against corruption. What kind of message is that? And in Germany, when this big one is being run, there is still a big case against a group of German insiders who discovered the situation as whistles of the German authorities gave 6m euros which revealed where the money went, in which secret accounts and in which islands, in off-shore these companies. Thus, the government manifests whether it really cares about something. And with us, if every applicant doesn't have his own company which then fails, if it's any kind of official, he goes to court, at worst, or at best, he's declared ineligible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51774	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51775	Mr. Vice President, Madam President of the National Committee, Secretary of State. Here I would like to contribute to this debate on the course of negotiations. In any case, I join those who say, and I share that opinion that it is commendable that all decisions of the National Committee are made by consensus and in a good atmosphere. What is important to stress is the dynamics of the negotiations, regardless of what we have heard today, even on behalf of many several clubs, that it is no matter when we enter the European Union, and that it is much more important for us to live in European philosophy, and I would say that it is important for both of us, and that the question has been raised since 2004, when we were also inclined to think that this process will work faster, that quality is more important to us than speed, but now that it has been five years since we opened negotiations, I think the issue of dynamics is being imposed. We don't care if the negotiations end nine years later and if we end up 9 years later, it means 2011 at the end of 2012 joins the European Union. The fact is that we have also accepted our commitments towards Europe, as well as ourselves on the reconstruction of the shipyard or possible privatisation, on the reform of the state administration, of course we want to have as much readiness as possible for the use of European funds, as well as security and stabilisation in the region and regional policy is also important and all of these are the preconditions for the conclusion of the negotiations. Let us not interfere with the situation in which these negotiations are being negotiated. There is also a global economic crisis and a financial crisis, and climate change is not to be rejected, although at this point we may not think it matters to us. It is obvious from everything that we will be more prepared than other countries, than other countries that have entered the last two countries, because of the way we negotiate, because of the standards, because of everything Croatia must meet and because of the new rules introduced for Croatia. And that is commendable, that is good and I think it is good first for Croatia and certainly also for the European Union. The great work was done both by the Government and the Parliament and, of course, by the National Committee and should be commended. Of course, both our negotiating team and the Office of Chief Negotiators because the big deal has been done and I believe he will go with the dynamics we've given ourselves. Here, it's already finished this April Intergovernmental Conference. The fact is that we have failed to open new chapters, but I believe this will happen in June when it will be at the ministerial level of the conference, then we are waiting for the next intergovernmental conference in July. Then, in the autumn, we hope for one or more intergovernmental conferences, and we heard that the Spanish also said they would hold as many meetings as possible of intergovernmental conferences at one or more levels to speed up and end negotiations. We hope in late autumn if not early next year, the signing of the accession treaty, the sending of our Croatian observers to the European Parliament, followed by a ratification process in the 27 parliaments of European countries, which I think is a very important job. And that is why it is not to reject the discussion on this communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about Europe and preparations for membership. I see that you, too, President, have stated in your report that there is work to organise round tables, that you will certainly intensify this work and it is necessary that we all participate in this. And, of course, it is necessary to come up with strategies for the other parliaments and parliamentarians to create a favourable atmosphere for ratification in their parliaments. I think that's unusually important and that this communication can be that right now, the most important job that follows both the Parliament and the Government and the National Committee is now. In any case, permanent work is ahead of us, and it has opened up the preconditions for this and for the Lisbon Agreement which has given great authority to national parliaments, so surely our Parliament will also play a role. So it's a permanent job, it's not just harmonising the current laws, it's also monitoring the laws, monitoring the directives, and it's a job that we're going to have to do permanently. Anyway, we need to get everybody involved more actively, and we need to step up the work. We must also act locally and educate people on the ground and talk about what Europe brings us and what we, of course, contribute to Europe. In any case, I want to commend the work of the National Council and I believe, the National Committee, and I want this dynamic to be fulfilled regardless of what, I say once again, many have said that they do not care about dynamics, and I think it is an important dynamic because 9 years is a period that is quite sufficient for Croatia to prove that it has met the criteria for Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51776	Replica, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51777	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague who said exactly that Croatia will actually enter more ready than other countries. The fact is, let's say that Chapter 23. – Justice and fundamental human rights, which we are talking about all these days and all this time, say, as one of the key chapters that may finally be closed, was introduced only in the case of Croatia as a special chapter. For the first time in the negotiations was introduced in the case of Croatia. So, you didn't mention the fight against corruption that this government is being praised for in the fight against corruption, but indeed this government has taken everything and is taking everything to ensure that corruption is reduced to the least possible measure. I would only mention the final case of Daimler, where Daimler confessed to the US court that he gave the government's officials back in 2002 and 2003 a bribe of 4,... Ma'am, read the transcript and you will see that the transcript clearly states, the representative of Daimler, the money bribe of 4.7m euros was given to conclude a contract with the Croatian government. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It was concluded at a closed cabinet session directly by contract, following the cancellation of tenders and other than bribes received by government officials from 2002 and 2003 from 4.7m euros, made additional damage to the Croatian budget for 185m kuna. And that's something to deal with, and I see that the government, or the State's Attorney's Office, has already taken all the steps to get the information that government officials from the SDP government have received, and that's important for Croatia, I think that as soon as possible. Also, whistles were mentioned. So we need to remember what actually the SDP government did to the whistle-tied INU, Mrs. Vesni Balenovic. Except for the fact that she chicanted her today we see that she was right because the crime there was certainly present and I personally sent state attorneys a few days ago material that speaks of crime from 2000 to 2003 to the INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51778	Replica reply, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51779	Well, here, Mr. Representative, certainly the fight against corruption has been intensified in the last period, especially this last year. Some obviously don't answer that. Now that the Croatian state has seriously tackled the fight against corruption it is good to talk publicly about these topics, it is good to open up all situations, not to plant anything under the carpet. Because it's certainly one of the preconditions for opening Chapter 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51780	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam President of the National Committee, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's listening to a good part of the debate today, one would conclude that one part here defends the form, and one part defends the content. I would like to say that, however, it would not remain as an impression to the public that what the government and negotiators are doing in this business is not a form and in that sense, it is extremely important and I do not think that it should stop saying that EU entry is not a goal in itself. That's not... It is not what we are interested in in the Croatian Democratic Community, nor do I trust all those who are well-intentioned all these years in the process, what we are all interested in is that Croatia is ultimately a more regulated state, that we all live better in Croatia, and all of this different reforms and community programmes, or aid programmes, contribute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they're helping out what our job would be, anyway. We also have a transition at the same time and negotiations and the end of the renewal. So much harder work than any of us has ever had in this business. However, I repeat it is not in itself the purpose that is absolutely the goal that our Croatia, that we all go in better together when the time comes. Another question that seems to me to have opened up a lot this morning was so is Croatia ready for membership in the European Union? Well, if you take a good look at the progress report, if you take a good look at and analyze the reports that at a similar stage had countries that entered the European Union, I have full right because I have analyzed these things for many years, I have dealt with these issues and when the European Union had only 12 members, so Croatia today and as it is and as imperfect as it is, and we would all like to do both in science and in justice and in many other things to be better and we will do so, it doesn't all rule out that we have one goal ahead of us, and that goal is that we would want to, and at this point I think that we have more than ever have reason to want to, and everything we all do together to make Croatia truly a member of the European Union in 2012. Why is that? Well there are a number of reasons, I'll just stick around for why at this point more than ever, more than in many moments similar to the ones that others have been going through it like that. The European Union has been changing, it has been changing intensively for the last 15 years, i.e. since the Mastric Treaty, perhaps since a single act of 85, about 15 or 20 is changing very intensively. What happens if Croatia fails to achieve that goal? Agricultural policy is changing, we know that agricultural policy, or a fund to support farmers, is one of the richest. Some other things have been changed in the Union, it will be very difficult, and perhaps the most difficult negotiations on the financial perspective of 2014, it is a big difference between a colleague and a colleague whether we will be in the European Union then or will be outside it. Not only because we're going to sit at the table, there's this phase of fund entry, in English it says pheasant and, so you can't get into those maximum quotas right now, we have to go through that phase before, in order to be able to count more on what we're talking about in negotiations, but in order to objectively take advantage of the two-years with 3 and a half billion euros. I do not believe that there is anyone among us at this time who could advocate the view that these 3.5 billion euros are not important to Croatia. They are important to Croatia and would be important to any state and without the financial crisis in which we are all together, and now especially at this time. We therefore insist, in particular at this time, that it is important for Croatia to be members of the European Union in 2012. So, it is important to be in a position to withdraw all these funds, it is important to be in a situation where the credit rating and the rating of Croatia as members of the international market is better, that investment in Croatia is more effective and more expensive when you put on the purchase and possible investments and possible missed profits and those money that the financial package has drawn for Croatia, we can come when we put all of this together on growth rates in which we can only dream. Well, that is why I think it is extremely important that we all work together to make Croatia join the European Union in 2012. How are we gonna get to that? Last week we talked about that report on the Swedish presidency. I think that more or less we all agreed it was exceptional that such a pace had been in negotiations before, that was such an interest from all the chairs in which we were having negotiations, we would be talking about other topics today, we wouldn't be talking about this, and the National Committee was working intensively during that period, so we should hope that, for our part as we agreed, it's not just the Croatian side on which it depends when we join, so there are 27 members, there are a commission that intercedes, there are many others but there are ourselves, and we have, at least in this year, we can identify at least 2 or 3 groups as those that can lead Croatia into membership 2012. One is certainly the Croatian government and negotiators. They said more than clearly and unequivocally that the goal is to do everything that can be done this year and that Croatia will be able to join 2012. Another important factor is that we are here in the Croatian Parliament, and our work is multiple but I will only extract what comes from the nature of the legislator, so from the legislative authority, we must adopt laws that remain for harmonisation but let us not forget, it is several times highlighted today in the debate we must also bring amendments to the Constitution. If we can agree to cover these changes and beyond what is necessary to join the European Union, it remains open, so far as I understand it is not too late that this agreement is reached, but we cannot do it ourselves and we should not put our feet on this path, there are enough of those who can do it in other fields, I don't think we need to do it ourselves. So, constitutional changes that concern just entering the European Union, and it is not a question, I think it is a false doubt that anyone is speaking entry into the European Union, or amending the Constitution. Within our process of entering the European Union, we must change the Constitution for several reasons. We cannot accept, so we have harmonised everything regarding the directive, etc., but the European law is more complex than that, we need to be able to adopt regulations, we do not comply with them, we must be able to apply them from day one, and the basis of this must be in the Constitution. How will we, which will be the constitutional change, therefore, be the basis for which we will adopt such regulations, hence this European legislation. We need to close some chapters, strengthen the independence of the Croatian National Bank, we need to put into the Constitution State Audit, that is, let's not fool ourselves, without which we cannot complete the negotiations, and if we cannot complete the negotiations, and if we want to join the European Union, if we want these deadlines we talked about, then it must be as soon as possible, with the agreement on the other changes we want or without them. So, to me, if we want Croatia well, we must certainly stick to the fact that Croatia should be able to join the European Union on us in this case at least when it comes to the Constitution and the laws lie a good part of the responsibility. As far as the work of the National Committee is concerned, of course as a member of that body I support his work, I support this report. I think he did a great job, and in the time that stands before us, certainly the original mandate is largely exhausted, I think the remaining job of promoting this process, interpreting what we did and, of course, at the external promotion at work that we have left in other parliaments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51782	Thank you. We have replicas. The first is Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51783	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Pejcinović-Burić, we cannot join the European Union as we often do in a formal and even formal way. Entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia is not a goal for itself. So the preparation doesn't apply to the alignment of form, it's being prepared to have a regulated issue of smuggling, and we've been able to sort it out for 7 years, 8, 10, 15 issues of editing, and trust in land books is not a form. That's the point. And not to mention the issue of education and education where we raise the ability of every Croatian man to benefit from his entry into the European Union, because his views are expanding and the labour market or his opportunities are expanding. So, when we talk about the Constitution, the Constitution cannot be seen as an act that will allow Croatia to enter the European Union, but an act that will ensure a better life for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. Therefore, insisting only on the regulation of constitutional norms concerning or allowing Croatia to be admitted into the European Union is not the point of change or meets the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51784	Thank you. Reply by Mrs. Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51785	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm sorry my colleague Leco didn't listen to my speech. I have just started my speech that this is not a larpular form for us and that we are the ones who are working on content all these years, and it is a matter of the possibility of a political agreement whether it will go into broader constitutional changes or what is necessary to align with the European Union. I haven't had two of these since the beginning, but I really haven't said a single moment, and I never thought that entering the European Union is by itself a purpose. After all, you can take what I said today, and you'll see that the good part of my speech was dedicated to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51786	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51787	Well, my colleague, Pejcinovic, seems to me that she wanted to create such a seemingly illusion that by entering the European Union in 2012, we have billions of people waiting for us, and suddenly, the gross social product will suddenly start to grow on its own. So that is where the funds are provided for Croatia, but in order for these funds to be withdrawn, we must have ready projects. Today, at this point, no single project is ready to withdraw those funds. And even when the projects are ready, we have to have the home component prepared, so first we have to pay for everything, then only after that can we withdraw those funds. However, whether or not we enter the European Union in 2012 depends on whether or not we finish the negotiation process. One of the major obstacles to this is certainly the judiciary, and the judiciary among other things cannot be opened because we do not have the security of foreign investment, i.e. foreign investors are not sure whether their investment will be safe here in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, let us not create an illusion that when we enter the European Union there will be honey and milk or cheese and cream, and that until then we do not have to do what is expected of us, because if there were, these anti-recession measures are neither necessary nor necessary, that they will come after them into prosperity. We have a very short time ahead and we have a very, very busy time to make all these adjustments that we need. If we were able to do that then probably a carlovic device would have already been built, not to mention that ISPA was long ago made, and the contract was signed, and in 2004, ISPA was agreed. And there isn't a single shovel there, let alone the cranes are building that device. So, just so much for those billions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51788	Thank you. Reply Marija Pejcinović-Burić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51789	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I have to do to you, my colleague Mršić, to begin in the same way. You didn't listen either. I've been a national aid coordinator, and I think doing that job knows a lot, and I know about the Karlovic case. Look at the tenders, look at all the other stuff, the deadlines for the Carlovac are still running. Therefore, it should not have been completed, for all I know and this job will be completed in time and that 36m euros, i.e. 22.5 from these funds will be withdrawn in time and the carloving device will be operational. And as for giving illusions. I didn't give any illusions. I was just saying that there are 3.5 billion, that we are preparing next week, or that I hope that we will have a debate this week about how Croatia is using funds, so you will see that these results are excellent for this time. And I'm convinced that everything that colleagues do, I know it's hard not to move your head because I've been working on it, and I know what the problem is at local level. But I also know that there are people who know how to do it, there are structures at national level, you will exist and you will work on it as mayor that exist at local level. And I am sure that Croatia will be able to use the financial envelope and projects when it reaches that stage. And I don't think that we should worry about the Croatian money component, because it will certainly be a priority in the budget because it is also for all of us together, why don't we give our money and use most of the Europeans for our needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51790	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51791	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam President of the National Committee, Mr Secretary of State. So here I would like to join all those who are saying that they will support the report on the work of the National Committee for the period 1 July to 31 December of last year. I will also support it for the reason that this part of Croatian negotiations, the time segment of Croatian negotiations for me, personally represents the most intense period during the Croatian negotiations that began on 3 October 2005. This is also supported by many speakers in their speeches because, for example, in only 6 months, more negotiations have been closed than in the past 4 years that preceded this period. We can also say that we are already in a phase today when Croatia and the Croatian government must prepare to sign Croatia's Treaty of Accession into full membership in the European Union. I therefore consider that Croatia's entry into the European Union is one of the main foreign policy objectives and should not be elaborated on this. But it is certainly one of the most important internal political objectives because we are not only conducting negotiations because of the form, only because of meeting the criteria set by the Republic of Croatia in 33 chapters or in those chapters in which they are set up but primarily to regulate Croatia as a legal, fair state, as a social state, the rule of law state, and in that sense certainly that the six months that we are discussing today have made its huge contribution. What I would certainly like to say is this, therefore, that today we can accept and speak in this way about this period, primarily because at the time the Government of the Republic of Croatia, signing an arbitration agreement with the Republic of Slovenia, has allowed the removal of the Slovenian blockade on the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia to join full membership in the European Union. And I dare say that we are not in the Croatian Parliament at the time, but first of all, the Prime Minister would allow the signing of this arbitration agreement, today here in the Croatian Parliament, the debate on this report would be completely different and we would not have a European perspective on Croatia in this way. I therefore hold that the removal of the blockade, i.e. by the continuation of the negotiations that allowed the arbitration agreement, can say that this arbitration agreement and everything that was happening around it was the most important political event in 2009. Also, what is important is to say with the arbitration agreement, that three important things have been achieved with it. The first is separate negotiations for Croatia's entry into full membership in the European Union on one side of a dispute, a trauma that burdened interstate and bilateral relations between Croatia and Slovenia for many years, it would say, since independence and Croatia and Slovenia. So that's the first thing that matters. Another important thing that should also be mentioned is that the border between Croatia and Slovenia will be resolved through the basis of international law, rules and principles and criteria of international law. And the third, no less important thing, is the fact that all procedural deadlines in this arbitration will begin only after Croatia has signed a Treaty of Accession to full membership in the European Union. And there is one more thing I want to say, and to which I was encouraged by my distinguished colleague Marija Pejcinović Burić, saying that today here in this assembly, it could have been an impression that someone in this process is a matter of form, and someone is concerned about content. So, I want to say that there is no good content in anything, so neither in this procedure that Croatia is conducting, without good and quality form. And no country that has joined the last 5, 6 years in full European Union membership has had such a format, so many forms in implementing its accession to full membership. And I'm just gonna say three important things here. The first thing is that in these negotiations, the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are negotiating with 10 out of 12 countries more than those countries that entered that big wave a few years ago in the European Union. Because the Republic of Croatia does not negotiate with the European Commission but negotiates with the Member States of the European Union, and in this case the European Commission technicalally prepares views and everything else that is necessary for Member States. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the foreign ministry, needs 27 cities to be visited by the main negotiator in order to coordinate the policies necessary in the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the European Union. That's the first reason. Another reason why we find it harder to negotiate with other countries and what sometimes seems to be a long, difficult, discouraging job is the fact that more chapters have been identified today in the Republic of Croatia than they have been in the case of countries that have entered the European Union in that great wave of enlargement. Among them, I would like to highlight chapter 23. The judiciary and fundamental rights that only the Republic of Croatia has been set up as a chapter, and this is a very broad chapter in which Croatia has also submitted its position, regardless of the standards that have been set up and regardless of what we hear here today in the assembly that Croatia has not done much in this chapter. I dare say that in this particular chapter which was the biggest challenge in the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia may have made the most of all the chapters in which it was negotiated. And one of the pillars of the Croatian government's work is the fight against corruption and crime where we said that we wanted to fully regulate Croatia as a legal state. And the third important segment that speaks of the form of Croatian negotiations is the introduction of a criterion institute that the countries that previously negotiated did not have. At this very criterion, Croatia is taking the biggest test to bring its legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union on the one hand, and on the other hand, it must indeed carry out the painful reforms imposed through these criteria on Croatia in the process of negotiating full membership in the European Union. And there is one more thing I would also like to say and to address the issue of the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which is necessary and whose changes are necessary for the entry into full membership of the European Union. To say that there is a false doubt whether to enter the European Union or to amend the Constitution that would in a certain way regulate all our wishes and shape all our wishes, whether it is about the wishes and reflection of the ruling majority or opposition in the Croatian Parliament. I would like to say that this policy of the final act that wants to be transferred to HDZ would be true only then, with constitutional changes, take place yesterday, the day before or five days before it is necessary to bring about changes to the Constitution. However, I would like to say that the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system set out to amend the Croatian Constitution two years ago and that two years ago an agreement is taking place, the harmonisation of positions on amendments to the Constitution. The fact that we have failed to agree in two years is not and cannot be more responsible in Croatia's rulings. That is why we cannot because we have failed to agree on all those amendments to the Constitution that were in the Croatian public, which have passed a very wide procedure, we cannot therefore miss the adoption of the Constitution in the part in which it is necessary for Croatia to enter the European Union. Therefore, I hold that no matter when, and surely we will consider and determine against those changes to the Constitution that were in the Croatian public, which were in the debate, we will bring them. But independent of them, it is therefore necessary to establish before this the amendments to the Constitution that will allow for the completion of negotiations for full membership in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51792	We have replicas. I'm Mrs. Anna Lovrin's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51793	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Bacic, I am very pleased to see what has been said here in the assembly just before you in relation to Chapter 23. The judiciary and fundamental human rights, that you once again stressed how much harder Croatia is in these accession negotiations, not just because of a new way of negotiating. So, not with the European Commission, but with the Member States and there are now 10 more members. So the negotiation process is as complicated as it is about Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental human rights as an extremely important political chapter introduced for the first time in the negotiation process for the Republic of Croatia, and this chapter is also burdened by some negative experiences, so to speak, too quickly in the last round of enlargement of the European Union. However, it should be said that the criteria for opening this chapter to Croatia were therefore delivered in December 2007 that all these criteria were delivered to the European Commission in June, that already in December 2008 the European Commission announced that the opening criteria had been met. But that there was then that political blockade of co-operation with the Hague tribunal which, in fact, in that technical sense, fulfilled the criteria was difficult to influence. And not to say that despite that and despite the blockades of certain countries, in February of this year we received an invitation to deliver a negotiating position and that this negotiating position with the fulfillment of everything was practically handed over within a few hours of the call. And that we will also be prepared if the capacity of the European Commission and the Member States is prepared to hand over the closing criteria in this chapter at the same time. Thus, it could not be said that we had not fulfilled what was said to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51794	Thank you. Answer Mr. Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51795	I agree with you, my colleague Lovrin, that in front of Croatia, when it comes to the criteria, there is a place where and where it is seeking an exam in the negotiation process rather than in front of other countries. But in my speech, and that's what you agreed to, I didn't say, so the becoming measured only its purpose. In fact, Croatia, by meeting the criteria in all those chapters in which both the criteria were set and their implementation and their implementation, is, in fact, the most involved in the activities of the area for which the criteria were set. On a number of examples, I was just in a portfolio where I was the secretary of state relating to transport policy, so I know on the chapter of transport policy how much the introduction of the criteria contributed to the better situation in the transport sector, whether it was rail or maritime transport. Therefore, we do not need and cry for the fact that the criteria have made Croatia's path towards the European Union significantly difficult. However, the introduction of criteria has only contributed to a better quality situation in certain areas for which the European Commission has put them before Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51796	Thank you. Replica Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51797	... It is your problem, or the entire HDZ furniture, that it does not see its own responsibility at all. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] You were irresponsible. Remember what you did then and now, irresponsible opposition and now you are irresponsible power. You are saying that it is not a false dilemma of Europe or of the European Union. So why don't you accept our logical proposal that the Croats outside Croatia should vote. But you don't want to agree to it because it's inexhaustibly hot for the electoral herself. If you really care about entering the European Union and dealing with this issue, why do you insist on it in particular? So where's your responsibility? And now you're saying it's our responsibility. Why didn't you vote in 2003 for amendments to the Penal Code when we extended the limitation deadlines and sanctioning economic crime? Then you're saying it was your responsibility to secure most of it. Then where was your responsibility? She wasn't there then, she's gone now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51798	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51799	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues, Ingrid Anticevic, I think you've hurt Article 203, although I'm not sure which article. However, you are again full of falsehoods and insults. So you're saying that the election unit of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is the source of different marifetteluks. That's what you said. That absolutely doesn't stand. I am absolutely and responsibly here saying that in the past elections and those before these, there have been no injuries recorded in the vote or any abuse, nor is it possible to achieve it. Therefore, let us stay away from these accusations of flat-rates that absolutely do not stand. If there are only a few, there are as many of them as there are in the Republic of Croatia in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and it is up to us to correct it, not to make it an argument for us to deny some of the right to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51800	Thank you. Article 203 of the Rules of Procedure is not hurt, and so much this intervention cannot be accepted because it is explicitly stated in the Rules of Procedure that the corresponding article of the Rules of Procedure should be invoked. It's not like that here. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51801	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would say to Mrs Ingrid Antičević Marinovic that the Croatian Democratic Community and the Croatian Democratic Community Club have shown their responsibility towards Croatian fundamental political goals since '90. To date, I don't know if it was the case with her club. The second thing is also very important that how much a particular club is responsible for the fundamental objective of the Republic of Croatia's entry into full membership in the European Union is also the fact that last year when we were to bring in the most important political event of last year, which is the signing of an arbitration agreement allowing Croatia to enter and continue its negotiations into full membership of the European Union, that the SDP club has shown its active restraint, that the entire assembly has been restrained and that this arbitration agreement is not in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia today we would not be where we are, today we would not be the European orientation of the Republic of Croatia, we would be somewhere in the Balkan orientation of the Republic of Croatia today and would be focused on some other talks, on some other negotiations. So it's true that at the most important moments of the SDP club he's looking at... Party interests, not the interests of other Croatia. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51802	We have a replica, Mrs. Representative and Vice President Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51803	Thank you very much. A fellow representative mentioned constitutional changes in the context of joining the European Union. Constitutional changes are not due to accession, only because of Croatia's accession to the European Union. I think that the priority of those working on it and trying to reconcile is to resolve the constitutional rules or constitutional values that citizens will live in Croatia have entered us or have not entered the European Union. And you can't get away with it because we can't agree on some basic things that apply to Croatia and the rights of Croatian citizens and bring it into the context of this. And of course if you don't accept to agree on everything that needs to be changed in the Constitution, you'll be responsible because you're the government. And you will be responsible not only for the problems we have with the Constitution, but you will be responsible for Croatia's entry into the European Union on its knees, economically on your knees with an army of unemployed, with young people waiting to leave Croatia and live and work somewhere in the countries of the European Union, you will be responsible for not doing anything for 6 years to prepare Croatia for the uplifted heads with their comparative advantages in this European Union, and not just dealing with the issue of constitutional change, how we will carry out the referendum. All of this other stuff is much more important, and you put all of this in second, third and fourth order of priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51804	Answer, Mr. Representative Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51805	I don't know, Madam Vice President, whether this speech of yours is an announcement of non-admission of constitutional changes that will come very soon in the parliamentary procedure. When it comes to the fundamental rights of Croatian citizens, I think that the fundamental rights of Croatian citizens adopted the Christmas Constitution in 1990 and that all amendments to the Constitution only upgraded those rights. Therefore, if over the past 20 years we have upgraded these fundamental rights, human rights, the rights of Croatian citizens and the rights of Croatian citizens, I see no reason not to continue on this trail, but we cannot and can't, and I think that there is a historical responsibility for all of us at this moment that what prevents us from entering the European Union is that we must vote on this, and that in that democratic debate as it has been so far when constitutional changes are concerned with these constitutional changes we do not continue. I agree with you, therefore, and I said so, therefore, that it is necessary to ensure maximum regulation of human, civil rights, the rights of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but it cannot be an obstacle at this time not to end the procedure that we have accepted by consensus of all parties here in this House, which is entering the European Union. I therefore hold that on this trail we have already started in two years we will continue to discuss all those issues that remain questionable between the ruling and opposition in the Croatian Parliament, but I repeat that there should be no reason to stop negotiations at the moment we are practically at the door of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51806	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Mr. Agent Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51807	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In a technical sense, this is a good report, the SDP club supported it, it shows that the National Committee has done its job in accordance with its powers well, that it is focused on the main objective of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the membership of the European Union, that there is still a consensus among political parties that the European Union is indeed, in fact, to see the Republic of Croatia as a member of the European Union one day. But by reading the newspaper for the last 10 days, even listening to some debates today in the last few months, I have sometimes been appalled by statements that actually turn out to be that membership in the European Union has become a matter of prestige for some, and not to say sentences like the goal of goals, probably obviously regardless of the victims. But I think we all have to ask all the MPs some questions right now. First of all, why do we want the Republic of Croatia as a member of the European Union? It is not for sure that politicians would congratulate each other on the success of the negotiations. Also, not so that one person or party would attribute it to themselves and stick it to the jambo posters when the time comes. Nor would the Parliament or the Government of the Republic of Croatia feel well with themselves, because I will even agree here with my HDZ colleague Fran Matusic, which is that this Parliament will have to work very quickly, and when we look at it at this point, I can openly say that we are still unprepared, and that is primarily true for MPs. In the European Union, we want 4 million of our citizens to work. I think we all agree on that. And the question is, what exactly do they know about this job? I have no intention of talking... Skepticism in the Republic of Croatia, I believe, however, that it is mostly a product of non-information, and less concrete arguments that some European Union policies do not, or that the institutions of the European Union do not work. [[You don't understand.]] I will talk about the lack of right, I apologize for the real communication strategy and the lack of structural reforms needed to get our citizens into the EU, enter under quotes, of course, as prepared and as competitive as possible for that market. I will take, for example, a farmer who may be coming to the website of the Croatian Parliament, look at this report, see Chapter 11. – Agriculture and rural development, sees that there are some standards, sees when it is open and actually sees that the National Committee has not received any concrete documents in this period. Now, as far as the National Committee is concerned, this is the work of the National Committee and this job is well done. That's what the report says. But the negotiations in total are not just a matter of standards, of closing chapters. They are also important to communicate Europe to citizens, but the color of real structural reforms and what has already been mentioned here is the application of European standards. And there's the National Committee, what I'm saying is his part-time job, he's doing well. But someone's wrong. For us in the SDP, there is a slight government helmet and certain ministries. You will now go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website you will not find, you will find very little information about Europe's communication to citizens and almost nothing about preparations for the referendum. I am ashamed that the EU delegation in Croatia gives 3.5m euros next year and a half to allow citizens of the Republic of Croatia to vote more in favour of the EU without knowing what our ministry is doing on this issue. So that's one of the key problems. I chose farmers for the reason that they are very little to communicate with and that very few agricultural entrepreneurs know at all the fact that, in agriculture, the Republic of Croatia is transferring part of its national sovereignty to the common European agricultural policy. Very few of them know that. And now let's see what they have at this point? They now have the right or at their disposal free education about... The IPARD programme and what is more, let's be realistic, good education on the IPARD programme for farmers, but they have no access and are not involved in the design of IPARD regulations, for which they are now maximum struggled through different ministries. They also have the right to contact the IPARD consultant, but they have no money and cannot get financial assistance to pay for it or to co-finance their own project unless it is a loan from the Republic of Croatia simply has no money. And it's hard to get credit for it today. Now, when we join the EU, that same agricultural entrepreneur will have, indeed, wonderful things at his disposal. On the one hand, the Rural Development Fund will be able to obtain funds to create new jobs, for example in agriculture and forestry through technology transfer and innovation. There will be funds to improve your own environment and raise the quality of life in the country. It's really a wonderful measure. The prerequisite for this is the successful use and success in the IPARD program, and we still deal with this IPARD now, from the problem agency and beyond. Well, we'll see the results of these first competitions. Another thing that is wonderful for one agricultural entrepreneur is the Agricultural Guarantee Fund, so subsidies. On the one hand, he can listen to market needs, but equally, I banalise it, he can also get support beyond the need of the market itself where he will not be forced to grow as minimally, which he cultivates. But there's one big but, so on the one hand it's good news, what's bad news is for that must have the highest level of quality assurance in production, in environmentals, in food quality and all the necessary certificates. That's bad because it's expensive, very expensive. Not to mention just branding his product, and the money he can't get from the state anymore. So what kind of preparation is this, specifically, of our farmers for the EU? Now, the example of the Czech Republic tells you, which has been better prepared for, say, meat-processing industry than Croatia, shows you that in the first year of membership, 500 small and, excuse me, medium-sized enterprises have actually disappeared. Just because they couldn't stand it, they didn't introduce these necessary standards. Now, that was five years ago, and today the EU is even making stricter rules, it's really changing. There will be stricter rules on financial supervision, but there will be stricter rules on field surveillance, in fact, with a view to establishing the implementation of regulation. And I don't have to remind you that in the common agricultural policy, we're just going to have a lot of regulation and complications, especially since it's changing, we're going to see actually the first results of public consultations by the end of the year. Now, if someone is playing on a map about it that citizens are going to be euphoric when the negotiations are over, I think that's wrong because how can a citizen be euphoric about something that wasn't even involved in at all? That little euphoria we might find a little drowsy when we get some first plane controllers to see how we apply certain rules. Now, I don't really understand what's going on here? The EU has given us the knowledge of how, it has given us knowledge, it has given us money. Obviously, something simply didn't work out here in the government of the Republic of Croatia. The very fact that negotiations are constantly pushing us as technical work is extremely bad for Croatia because we will get a facade. If we're going to say that the negotiation is over because the paper says that the chapter is closed then we have a facade and a Podkin village from which the citizens will have nothing. For example, again some countries, how did they do agriculture? On the one hand, they solved the criteria, on the other hand educated all farmers on the common agricultural policy, increased their capacity for subsidies, also co-financed their certificates and eventually helped brand products. European cold statistics show that without branding products, if we start branding only once we join the EU, we will have big problems breaking the market. We get 500 million of them, and they get us five of them. And in the end, what's wrong with that? Why doesn't the government have a communication policy? God knows that Evey Sanader was answering that she wasn't there, so she was just being pimped out by that story without communication, no extra questions, no communication, no pressure from above for reforms, no communication, no press releases. I'll just give you two things for the last few days in the media. Croatia could, I don't say, have problems with financial supervision for one thing. Our deficit is still high, we are growing the share of debt in GDP. And on the one hand, Europe wants stricter rules, on the other side of Jadranka Kosor says we will have 3.5 billion euros, which is a very fine figure, and Ivan Shuker then walks around the world and owes us and raises our own responsibility. Which, on the one hand, can lead to monitoring and, on the other hand, endanger our cohesion funds. Another thing, yesterday's famous German daily newspaper announced that Croatia could get into a situation that due to unimplemented structural reforms it would pay more at the beginning of the EU than it would get. So yesterday you published just the Germans and you can find on the web portals. I'm not scared, I'm not cheating, I'm just telling you, we have another year and a few days to two, start changing things, start doing structural reforms. Because negotiations are not only the technical closure of chapters, they are primarily the real reforms aimed at improving the lives of our citizens. And the last sentence, President, as a colleague in Brussels told me when he evaluated the content of the negotiations with reforms and with the standards we are implementing in Croatia, said four words, large plans small effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51808	Thank you. We have five replicas and one correction. First, we'll start with the replicas, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic has the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51809	Almost most of your debates have dedicated your colleague to adapting our farmers and talking about a lot of problems. For example, you listed the IPART programme and where our farmers are in positions when they are not co-financed and how much they have to pay for their private consultant project. However, we do not have only structural problems, with us, you will not believe, I did not believe until I asked the Vice-President of the Taker Government who confirmed me, the Croatian man cannot yet come to his property. The man from Zadar stands in Zadar, Jagodna, in a small place rich, fertile, cannot come into his possession, we talk about structural reforms, about European standards, if there is anywhere in Europe a man who cannot reach his property. He can't even come from a distance to see his house and his possessions that others have possessed him. We are talking about structural reforms we are not able to fulfill the elemental rights of Rome's yet-to-be "shut, fruti abuti" rights, enjoy using its own. That man can't come. Or the case in Lica, and it's a dramatic situation, all the media wrote about it, and no one, where mostly old people live, and even women's populations, lives exclusively out of 300 kuna help and from cattle that they grow. Every once in a while, the brave boys get together and steal those old men and the police can't find the unloved perpetrator, they probably have other things to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51810	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Mondekar. Here you go. No, I don't. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51811	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you also told your colleague Mondekar what farmers know about the European Union. That the government and the Ministry of Information, however, are not only helmeting but what is worst there is no explanation anywhere what will be done with the funds that we should withdraw, or based on programmes that could be used since 2012 and 13. These three and a half billion and 700 million euros for agriculture must certainly in some way explain to these people that they can get the same money, regardless of what they will do in other ways, means that direct payments will be halved, i.e. measures in rural development will be 45% of these funds. This needs to be explained and it should be known how and how this will be withdrawn, what, unfortunately, and when we talk about communicating with farmers, I think yesterday's what I read in "The Voice of Slavonia" in Slavonia will be less than 1 billion kuna for incentives. These are the majority of people in Slavonia, from the peasant sector, or farmers, and they believe that entering Europe will be the few that we have that will be no more. That part of the communication that, with all the population especially from rural areas, with people dealing with agriculture, with the problems that this agriculture has today, needs much more quality and much more communication, but also to explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51812	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51813	Dear colleague Mondekar, in your discussion, you also touched an extremely important segment of quality infrastructure, so standards of measurement, accreditation. Here we are witnessing that a few days ago a chapter on the free movement of goods was closed, however, the question is that you have rightly asked which we do not adhere to international standards in many segments but only accept them. We are obliged by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement within the framework of the European acquis to accept 85% of European standards until the moment we are admitted to full membership of the European Union, but this is a very demanding task that does not go beyond the far-reaching dynamics to which it should go. Moreover, because of the postponement of the application of many laws, the threat that the moment the Republic of Croatia enters the European Union will result in the real collapse of our economy, which simply because of the lack of lower legislation will not be able to apply these standards. Moreover, unfortunately and the process of restructuring in economic operators, and so in agriculture too much is too slow, this technical component of legislation is not recognised, and the government should do far more work to explain to the general public and the users of services on the importance of this technical segment of legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51814	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Mondekar's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51815	Thank you very much, I will give a brief answer exclusively from the talks that went out last week with a farmer actually a cattleman who manufactures meat products. The man described how he prepared himself for the standard of certification for the European market, he paid the black state inspector inspector to black-introduce the necessary certificates for 2,000 kuna, and we wonder what was wrong with our country. The man needs to be monitored and he's still bringing him in, so the man who needs to control his certificates introduces them to him, and then when that poor man has to close his own door who's to blame for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51816	Thank you. He had a replica further Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51817	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of mine, Mondekar, who's come to the conclusion that our citizens won't be euphoric when we're done with the negotiations. Thank God it won't be euphoric, it wouldn't be good for us to be euphoric, because I'm quoting an esteemed Croatian intellectual who spoke about Croatia's entry into the European Union in 1990 said "The EU is not an invitation to dance at the Elisha Palace". I think it's important to know and that's why I think it's important that our citizens don't be euphoric, but I agree it's important to be realistic, it's important to be informed. And in that sense, I absolutely agree that the work of the National Committee, but all of us here, too, must be to talk about what would be the advantage, but what would be the cost of that entry. In fact, the Croatian Government ordered one study which it made in 2006, benefits and costs of joining the European Union. And there you can clearly see that there will be expenses. But the big question is what are the costs, and what is investment? We need to be aware of that, too. So there are things to be invested in, they're currently expenses, but they're long-term investments. And I think in that very sense we should say that in the short term, in the middle, there will be losers. And that should be made clear. But there will be winners both in one and the other. And in the long run, these studies, but also other studies that have been done for other countries that have been in the past, have shown that there is a long-term benefit for everyone. And I think that's the main message in that to explain to people why Croatia should enter the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51818	Thank you. Mr. Mondekar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51819	Dear colleagues, I will agree with you that we need to communicate in all segments of society and the advantages and disadvantages of the European Union. It's been really bad so far. That's true. I have seen in the higher education sector the former Minister of Education has maximumly communicated the advantages that the European Union will have. He has completely ignored a bunch of disadvantages that will bring to the education sector the way we have today in Croatia, which the European Union could bring us. And what's worse than all that, those flaws, they just had to be admitted. In the medium term, it has been given through a certain reform to make it really right for everyone to be in the long term. So, I'm just saying, we have a little time left. Very little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51820	Thank you. And the replica Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51821	Dear colleague Mondekar, you have rightly focused your debate on citizens entering the European Union and on a very endangered and possibly most vulnerable social group, which are farmers. The fact that the SAPARD project was in no way successful enough or we can say it at all because it was used in very minimal amounts. And now we have huge problems with the IPARD. This was also logical because the Ministry of Agriculture and related ministries did not even aim to use the SAPARD or to raise the administrative capacity of the accompanying services to help farmers use the SAPARD, and on IPARD day and tomorrow much larger and more significant means, as it ensured through capital support that machinery and equipment were sometimes not needed by farmers. On the other hand, it did not protect them in a way to motivate them, to move to change the sorting of what they would plant or to introduce some new technological lines, or new products, and to motivate the processing industry to use that poor base that we could produce in Croatia. So today we have a fact, for example, to plant too much wheat and not know what to do with that wheat. On the other hand, the food industry must import wheat and quality enhancers, because in Croatia no one plantes wheat that improves the quality of food products. So, this short time that we have really until we enter the European Union should be used to create a accompanying segment that will help farmers and the food industry especially small and medium-sized enterprises to be able to prepare projects, implement projects, and then recover funds through IPARD or other funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51822	Thank you. Mr. Agent Daniel Mondekar's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51823	Thank you very much. Here's to short. You know, some cruel people say the first kittens throw themselves in the water. I would even from the Shapard and say that it's of course we'll have problems. That the whole measure 3 and 4 of the SAPARDs were gone, so we kind of transferred it to measure 1 and measure 2. Let's do it well. But if we keep having these problems just spill over, now the IPARD is inadmissible. Why? The capacity of IPARD is increased. I had the honour of talking... to a consultant who said it was terrifying that the capacities of some local agencies were stronger than national capacities and until it changed that there might be problems with IPARD. And what does that mean? For the end-user of the farmer, he was threatened with funds while we were re-interrupting the agencies. Inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51824	Thank you. And correction Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51825	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Mondekar, you have incorrectly stated that he is very little or nothing communicating with farmers and that they are uninformed. That's incorrect. It's very communicable. I can very crediblely bear witness to this and local self-government units and, of course, the county office for the economy participate in this. And our farmers are extremely informed and they use various pre-accession opportunities. And the other thing you said was that there are no favourable circumstances about the competitiveness of agriculture. I sure do. Please be nice about it saying it's been since 2003. 170 million liters of milk increased production, 22,000 suppliers and many other moments. So farmers are very informed and they know how and what to do. I'm afraid you're not well informed because you don't know life in the country. And I can honestly talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51826	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of corrections and replicas. And it's Mr. Agent Iron Flego's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51827	Thank you, Mr. President. So the negotiation process consists of one side in the normative part which is our job, but also in the reform part which is less the government's job. What bothers me in this case and in these examples is, in fact, the government's work, which in a whole series of examples, shows that we are not really approaching the European Union, but that we are either groping in a place or in some respects moving us away from the European Union from European norms but also from European practices. I'm going to take only two cases on this occasion, and that's from a small segment that applies to soft aquis, so where there are no solids, i.e. to education and science. First example. The Lisbon Declaration of 2000, 2010 was marked as one where, on the one hand, higher education, and on the other hand, science should become the most competitive in Europe and should reach a level of 3% of the gross national product invested in scientific research. This goal has not been achieved, but Croatia has made a very specific approach to achieving this goal, namely that it has been reducing over the past three years, thus reducing resources for scientific research, and now we are no longer to 1.11% of the gross national product, but, let's say, 0.89, which has further distanced us from that target of 3%. Secondly, yesterday's announced government measures, so it's about economic recovery, the economic recovery programme in my court is extremely backward. I'll give you some examples. What happened in 2009? In 2009, the education system made the biggest contribution to the worshipable anti-recession measures, since it remained almost 9% of its own budget, i.e. a billion and 134 million kuna, and that area in which it is considered to be an area of strategic importance in the European Union, which is the only one able to extract countries from recessions, i.e. economic problems, and which is particularly cared for in order to achieve sustainable development and could turn its economies into an internationally competitive economy. So that area is cut in Croatia. The European Union has made a whole series of efforts to keep the area of funding for education and science at an existing level, so that it remains intact, and in fact some countries have increased that amount so as not to qualify for a more successful exit from the crisis. For example, the overall economic recovery programme on page 24 comes down to education and science being subordinated to labour market interests. Of course, colleagues and colleagues, it is necessary to coordinate the exits from the educational system with the needs of the labour market, but not by reproduced a remarkable thesis that was valid 30 and a few years ago, which was published in the book School and Factory, but by thus making education and science a basic engine of development and that education and science actually draw the development of the labour market, not vice versa. So we come to a paradoxical situation, in fact an absurd situation that the undeveloped and lacking labour market in Croatia dictates a relatively developed area of science what to do. And the whole thing is upside down. Point 4 requires the reduction of unschooled staff in schools, and Croatia is known for its extreme scarcity of educators, psychologists, social psychologists, social workers, school labs. And again we're taking a step back. As far as science is concerned, point 5 sets out that advancement in science is done so that priority is given to those who associate science and science application, otherwise we redefine with the Government's programme of legal provisions, but also European norms. Science is progressing through scientific progress, not technological achievements and progress. The second objective, point 3. Croatia continues to speak in language 20 years old or 30th even which developed European countries have long since left. We want to build a network of schools. A network of educational programs, colleagues and colleagues has long been developed. Not a network of schools, but a network of educational programs. I keep warning, there are 20, 30 people in this country who know the world's trends in education development. Why does the ministry, why does the government never use their services, but it's used not to tell half-writers, so I'm going to tell half-informed people, quasi experts in some area. Another example is far more dangerous and actually much more risky. It is Minister Fuchs' decision of 4 March 2010. With that decision, Minister Fuchs abolished co-financing of the 7th Framework Programme retrogradely. So it's about the decision of 4 March 2010, the retrograde co-financing of the 7th Framework Programme since 1.7.2009, and that's terrible in my court. This is terrible because it is a document published by the highest government body in the Republic of Croatia. He's anti-constitutional because he's retroactive. He is therefore simply opposed to all international norms and, of course, European practices. We have become quite anxiously involved in the 7th European Framework Programme, so it is European international research. And now we exclude ourselves with the Croatian co-financing or subsidisation of this strategical and consensually accepted project. Not only that, colleagues and colleagues, the Government thus dissipates the Treaty with the European Union on Croatian subsidisation or co-financing of European projects, which is a shame, not only for scientists and scientists who participate, but also for all of us. Instead of making progress, colleagues and colleagues, we're going back. We're going back. The retroactive decision has yet another real consequence that primarily concerns the ruling coalition and colleagues and colleagues on the other side of the assembly. In fact, with its decision to refuse, the minister's retroactive refusal of funding is being announced by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, who claims that the government is carrying out, or the Ministry of Finance, all its financial obligations. It shows that since 1.7 last year financial commitments have not been made, have not been serviced. My colleagues and colleagues, these are only two relatively small but unfortunately not lonely examples showing how the government is moving us away from the European Union and how leading its kind of anti-European policy, and given the importance of Croatia's approach to the European Union leads to anti-Croatian politics at the end. It's up to all of us to worry about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51828	Thank you. And Mr. Andrej Plenko, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51829	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to say something about the subject mentioned several times in today's debate on the Report of the National Committee, which is a communication strategy. Namely, today's debate of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament is, in my opinion, a better instrument than any strategy that any foreign consultant or 30 experts within the state administration or domestic ones will write as a paper based on which we will work. I am saying this because in Croatia the national consensus on the accession of the European Union means one true wealth, means one true social agreement on a priority goal for the development of the state. I think the last 10 years have shown this in every respect since the moment of preparation for membership. I remember very well the debate in this House on 18.12.2002. I remember all the steps following the application for membership in 2003, obtaining a positive opinion, obtaining a European Council decision from the start of the negotiations on 3 October 2005. In all these moments, there is a strategic consensus. However, consensus in Europe does not mean evacuating debates from public space, from public debate. On the contrary, we need her with or without a referendum. Croatia made a political decision on the referendum several years ago. He'll hope to hold next year in the spring. However, everything we do now we do in a function that the citizens know what they're going into. This is what is strategically important and I think that when you look at what individual resolutions are doing, what some institutions are doing, which are all documents made for which all target groups have prepared brochures, information, which all institutions, agencies are doing, I would say that a lot of information has been done in the European Union. If next time there will be discussions about European funds I think we will also see how much this has been done, how much funding has been used by these funds that we can call some kind of training funds for real structural and cohesion funds in a few years. It's done a lot, it's between 85 and 90 and something percent depending on the funds that it's about. However, it must not be forgotten that the whole accession process to the European Union is I would say almost exclusively a political project. The Union is a political project that lasts 60 years. None of her aspects are... There's not a single chapter that we can say is technical. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's not a single standard that's technical. Every decision in the process is political. And if we've learned one lesson in the last few years through negotiations, then that's exactly it. We were aware not only of last year during the Czech presidency and witnesses of numerous blockades. It's not the first one. There are a lot of actors here in the assembly who remember a number of stages both in the 1990s and early in the decade and between 2005 and today. Unfortunately, we do not have the instrument to seek compensation for loss of speed, but we have the possibility to place emphasis on the political approach of Croatian negotiations. All the negotiations were specific, and ours I would say were very specific from the transition from the agreed economy to the market economy, from peace to war to peace again, from the fact that in 20 years we had passed a transition that meant both the staging of political culture and pluralism. These are all events that occurred in a very short period of time. All that Croatia is doing is practically done, so we can say it in broad views overnight. And therefore, the successes that have been made in the negotiations over the past few years are very high. I think it's very important. It should also be kept in mind what has not been mentioned today and certainly should be considered is Croatia's political position. Croatia today has 20 years of independence almost. Croatia has its memberships in all international organisations it has applied for except the European Union. Croatia has experienced a non-permanent member of the Security Council for the past two years. Croatia is eventually a year member of the Atlantic Alliance. These are arguments that we have an additional legitimacy to end the negotiations, and we must also be aware of the broader context in which the European Union has been in the past years. That's not mentioned here today. First, the European Union had a dramatic institutional crisis starting in 2005 with referendums in France and the Netherlands. They haven't recovered from it in three years. We remember the mantra very well without enlargement if there is no institutional reform. It was an external factor that had an important impact on the dynamics of the negotiations. How did this mantra transfer to the enlargement strategy process? It's very simple. On a proposal from the Commission in 2006, the European Union adopted a new Enlargement Strategy, which focused on an element that had been forgotten since Copenhagen in '93. and this is an absorption capacity. All this time, the European Union has been watching to see if future members when they join the European Union are such that the 27-member Union can accept them without being a problem for them. Let's not forget we started negotiations on the same day with a big and friendly country in Turkey. Not all members of the European Union see both Croatia and Turkey. The whole context has affected the dynamics of the negotiations. In addition, Croatia is seen as a model for our neighbours in Southeast Europe. I think that element is of extra importance especially when it is reflected through the context of Chapter 31. On chapter 31, we tested the principle of good neighbourly relations. Not only are good neighbourly relations related to the issue of Slovenia and Croatia. The model of solving what we saw last year with the arbitration agreement is also the key to many other situations in Europe. There were other members who were very pleased that Slovenia was in the front row, and their goal was not Croatia but other countries. Therefore, it is important to take care of that too. In addition, it seems to me to be very important is Chapter 23. Chapter 23 has been mentioned here several times. It is essentially a taste of what we have called the political criteria for the last 15 years. Everything we've had to do since the '90s for PHARE, for the Cooperation Agreement, everything we've had to do for each other institutional phase of approaching the European Union has been gathered in Chapter 23. Is it a matter of co-operation with the Hague tribunal, whether it is a question of curbing corruption, whether it is a question of human rights, reforming the state administration. All these questions are in chapter 23. You know that Croatia has submitted the negotiating positions behind this chapter, as well as for all the other 33 for which we have been invited so far and I note what is important, I see that we are forgetting them, we have 35 chapters in the negotiations and that should be said publicly. We also have chapter 34 relating to institutions, and chapter 35 concerning other issues. It seems to me that we focus only on this 33 because the methodology of the negotiations was so, but the institutions are very important chapters of the Croatian Parliament, and it should also be taken into account. Chapter 8 mentioned here first refers to the shipbuilding criteria. We all know that the decision has been made recently to extend the privatisation deadline, so the second round for May 19th, is currently the main element that the European Commission is following, which was made in agreement with the European Commission and we will see when the deadline for the situation with the bidders is over. In the end, the main thing I think is that today's debate has shown a date. The date is terribly important. I think Mrs. Pejcinović explained very well what he means for the implications of using the funds ahead of us in 2012 and 2013. We don't care when we finish the negotiations, there absolutely I remember very well the end of 2006 as the dead line and in 2007 and 2009, today we are in 2012, unfortunately we all know very well that we are late and that is, about that I would say there is also a consensus. Therefore, I think it is on all actors and the responsibility of all political parties, especially in their international contacts, to try to catch the end of this year. Whether we will be able to see this, but that the government is committed to this goal I think it is quite clear, just as all resolutions, the role of Parliament in this process will be crucial not only in terms of the harmonisation of legislation that has been done very well, but also in terms of encouraging public debate on what Croatian citizens are waiting for in two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51830	Thank you, Secretary of State. Now they'd break up by 3:00, when the debate continues on the same agenda. The first one is... discuss Mr Dragutin Bodakoš, then Mr Zdenko Franić, Davor Bernardić, and so on. [[You don't understand.]] We wish you a pleasant rest and a pleasant, or good time, or sweet. Suit yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51831	We will continue with the session and debate on the report on the work of the National Committee for the period 01 July to 31 December 2009. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51832	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the report of the National Committee for the period from July 1st to 31st of December 2009 as its final consideration estimates that in the second half of 2009, major progress has been made in the negotiations following the removal of the Slovenian blockade and it is expected that the technical conclusion of the negotiations could be reached during 2010. Last week we also discussed the Presidency of Sweden where it is normal for both the Government and the Chief Negotiator that they also found that the turning point is just this Presidency of the Czech Republic, this Sweden and that, with this presidency and the resolution of the problems we had with Slovenia, a number of chapters were opened, and also closed. However, according to these current indicators that we have received, the open chapters are 30, and 18 chapters are closed, or 3 chapters should be opened at this point. However, I think the other thing is also important, and this is a question of how to successfully enable and end the total closure of all chapters, open chapters with these 3 that we need to open and another thing is how to execute that population, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia afterwards and accept the possibility of Croatia entering the EU. In order to somehow achieve this, I believe that 2 things are needed in this next period, and this is a question of communication with the population in order for people to understand and satisfy their knowledge that the need and possibility of joining the EU is one of the most important things in this period today. And another thing about how and how to continue to implement other EU rules in our legislation in order to meet the criteria set out in respect of the closure of certain chapters. What I'm going to talk about more is chapters 11, 12 and 13. - Fishing, it's open. It was in those chapters that we had one longer negotiation time until it opened. Here, the 11th and 12th opened last year, and in this year, the Fisheries. However, the criteria we received were one for opening, for example in Chapter 11. – Agriculture and rural development was one criterion, i.e. the food safety chapter, veterinary and phytosanitary development had four. We've met those standards, and now the next question is, what about closing those chapters? Chapter 11. - Agriculture has 3 standards. Also, the safety of food 3 criteria. What is characteristic in this report is that they are and are determined to be Chapter 11. – Agriculture and rural development that negotiations are open and 3 criteria are set for closure. However, in this Chapter from 01 July to 31 December, the National Committee did not discuss or receive documents concerning this chapter. The same is true of Chapter 12. It may be a shorter period from October 2nd to December 31st, however, it is important that how much work is done on the issue of closing these chapters and meeting those criteria. Well, here we have now had a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture where it was said about the amendments to the Support Act. However, one radical reform of the Support Act will certainly be necessary if we are to probably meet these 3 criteria in this part of agriculture and rural development as well as to enable ourselves to close that chapter. Why is that necessary? So the Act on the Support of Europe certainly and its provisions should be implemented in this law of ours precisely because the reform of the agricultural system in Croatia indicates that we must go to 3 parts of the basic area, 3 basic areas of payment. These are direct payments, income support, intervention measures for market regulation and rural development support measures. If we don't normally do that, there won't be any way to close that chapter. However, the closure of this chapter, as well as the closure of the entire negotiations and the entry into 2012, is related to the 3.5 billion euros that should be withdrawn in 2012 and 2013, i.e. in agriculture itself, that is almost 700 million euros. What happens is that this amount will be divided between direct payments 54% and 46% for rural development, and that's exactly the turning point that needs to be done, which we are unfortunately very difficult and slowly trying to do. The very statement by the Ministry of Agriculture when it proposed a drastic downsizing of direct support by 40% led to a protest, of course, that these protests of peasants knew how they were moving, what was going on. However, the issue of direct payments in Croatia today is with them 37 types of products, receiving these direct payments. According to the new, or European model, it can be 8, only 8, milk, suckler cows, cattle, sheep and goats, tobacco, pigs, sugar tails, and olives. This will also likely cause certain reactions from agricultural producers. As a result, I think that this process should be accelerated, the aid law should be adopted as an actual state of mind, and this communication with the population as well as with this part of the rural sector, i.e. the agricultural sector, in a better way, explain to people. This does not mean that you will not get these money, but you will need to have programs to withdraw in one form or another. I think what I've already mentioned today when one billion kuna is read less for incentives that people must be demoralized and that as such a very different attitude towards entering Europe and all those benefits that can be gained through it. That is why I believe that the reports provided by the National Committee to this House have always been of quality and through the arguments that the Committee Chairman Mrs Pusic was saying, we certainly had a lot of knowledge about how and how the part moves. Therefore, what I have pointed out is that I think that the fulfillment of these criteria, 11, 12 and 13 respectively, in the report, is what I mentioned that 11 and 12 are not about to receive any document from the National Committee, and I think that this needs to be done as quickly as possible and by means of this National Committee that the overall problem of entry is placed on one higher level, or as many people as possible to be familiar with it, so through this Assembly, we also normally, through the discussions and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51833	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51834	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here is the debate on this item of the agenda that provides the opportunity to discuss a few questions about some of the chapters that are temporarily closed. I would especially refer to the chapter of free movement of goods that are not full for two, three days closed and it is good that it is closed because it means that we have fulfilled the four standards as mentioned here. It is perhaps the most important chapter regarding the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, given the fact that, in fact, the European Union itself is resting on four fundamental freedoms. Freedom of movement of goods, people, capital and services, and in fact the requirements that we have had to meet and adapt our legal system, the acquis has been drawn mainly in Article 73 of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is referred to the quality infrastructure or to normisation, measurement, accreditation, compliance testing. Elimination of technical barriers to free circulation of goods on the European market rests on the principle of mutual recognition, technical harmonisation of legislation and the prevention of the creation of non-tariff barriers and a product legally manufactured and placed on the market of one Member State, it must be able to move freely throughout the single market of the European Union and the EFTE if it provides the same level of protection of legitimate interests, such as safety for human health and the environment, and it is precisely a question of who can examine that level of protection and compliance of requirements placed on goods, only highly well-trained test and appropriate laboratories that have passed the accreditation process as proof of competence of their test methods. I am pleased to say that in the very near future, therefore, the order of size according to the available information any week, the Croatian accreditation agency will also sign a multilateral agreement with European accreditation so that any product that has been examined in any accredited Croatian laboratory will be able to be placed on the market of the European Union without further questions, in accordance with this pillar on which the European Union rests. In other words, the Croatian accreditation agency itself passed accreditation with European accreditation. Everything would be fine if it weren't for that but. The Croatian accreditation agency is based on adopted norms that are adopted through the Croatian Standard Institute as Croatian norms, hence international or European norms, and also an extremely important segment is the work of the National Measurement Institute, which must take care of the traceability of the units to international levels. Unfortunately, however, this National Measurement Institute has been established and has an administrative board and a director in practice is not working, and moreover the budget allocated to it is insufficient for its work and we have already lost traceability for several levels, for example. for mass and density. Our laboratories, when measured, must go to Slovenia or Austria or another country because our accredited laboratory could not measure its standards and thus guarantee traceability to international standards. Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know if you know the information that such a moderation costs 4 thousand euros in the Republic of Slovenia, unlike the measurement that cost 4 thousand kuna in Croatia. Likewise, colleagues from Bosnia who have died down their standards in Zagreb no longer do so, but also go to Slovenia, pay higher costs, and we have lost part of the market. I remind you that all these chapters are only temporarily closed and, if some segments do not seem to work, it is likely that colleagues from the European Commission will ask themselves whether some segments should be re-checked. Mr Secretary, I know that you are from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Integration, and you are neither from the Ministry of Science responsible for fundamental measurement or at least the Ministry of Economy under which the State Bureau of Measurement is located, which should give room for the National Measurement Institute to breathe. But no. They're suffocating him at first. Therefore, one of the very important Stabilisation and Association Agreements has not been revived. We have published government measures to get out of the economic recession and crisis where a lot of emphasis is placed on science, education, economic incentives, I would just like to mention that measuring would ultimately affect at least 10% to 20% of gross social product if it were viewed as a satellite balance. In Britain, even more. But the British have a more developed economy and economy. Let's be modest. If it affects measurement in Croatia and 10%, it should be nurtured, it should be given an opportunity to live. We have not yet adopted any sublegal acts in line with European guidelines, so that our meterers do not strictly adhere to the law. We were one of the last states that ever adopted the Convention on the Meter, and here's the economic programme talking about how science, education, should save us. And as I said, even these segments that we have committed to Article 73. Stabilisation and Association Agreements, unfortunately we don't adhere. And I have to say, I'm honestly surprised that this chapter is even closed, even temporarily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51835	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Agent Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51836	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. A few moments at all risk of repeating everything that my colleagues and colleagues have been saying all morning about this report. It is certainly necessary to highlight the technical and substantive progress in our negotiations, which ultimately resulted in the highest number of open chapters, at least during one European Union presidency, as was the case in the case of Sweden. I remember, of course, the time when the Swedish people also chaired the European Union in early 2000, then for their three priorities for the six-month so-called presidency. 3I English of "Employment and enlargment ecology". Unfortunately, enlargement is not a popular word in the European Union. On one occasion, I said that in May 2004, when 10 countries suddenly entered the European Union should be declared a holiday of European enlargement, because I doubt that there will ever be a date when such a number of countries will enter the European Union. On that occasion, Europe paid some old political bills probably... on this one. And now, of course, it remains to be seen that one of Croatia's first countries to apply for membership in the European Union in the 21st century is going to enter the European Union. I often make a big joke and say that it was much easier to establish the European Economic Community in 1956 than to enter the European Union in 2012 and 13. Because here we are leading the debate here in the Croatian Parliament on this topic, the common legal heritage of the European Union is growing, the aquis communariare is growing and higher and the stricter standards that the candidate country of course needs to meet. But Croatia has no choice in all this. Consensually, we all agreed that this was one of the priorities, not only of our political future, but of our overall social development. So much of this report and it is good to emphasize that big job that was done since 2005, first of all, I would like to welcome the political agreement between Croatia and Slovenia on the border dispute. This is the crucial moment of the period which has resulted in the deblockation of certain negotiating chapters. It is good that the report does not forget to highlight regional cooperation, as well as to continue to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and our country's readiness to share experiences with other countries in the region and, of course, to assist them. It is certain that the date of our entry into the European Union for Croatia is a historic date, but all the dilemmas and traumas that we bear as a state and society will be removed on the day that and the last country we border with, we physically border, also be a member of the European Union. Unfortunately, the date is not yet in sight, but it should work to join him as well as the date of our entry into the European Union. The report says Croatia is entering the final stage of preparation for membership and is often used in political traffic, we enter into technical realization or technical conclusion of accession negotiations, however, there is no such thing. There is no technical conclusion of accession negotiations in the European Union. The negotiations with Brussels were neither going to be a non-conflict process at any time and walking along some of the paved paths. It is therefore good to talk about a further phase of the negotiations because there is no room for relaxation, both because of opportunities in the European Union itself and because of the European Commission's request to Croatia. It is possible that the final stage, of course, should not be called evil, it comes without a call, but that this final phase of the negotiations is also a critical phase since some very serious obstacles on our path to full membership have not yet been removed. After all, our country has only formally crossed the first half of the negotiations because of the 33 chapters closed in 18 and unfortunately, in Croatian case, one applicable rule has been confirmed, which is that the most difficult, complex chapters are left for the end. The report highlights the fact that Croatia as a candidate country was used by all pre-accession aid instruments replaced by a single instrument for pre-accession assistance, the IPA abbreviations. Last year, the total funds under the IPA programme for Croatia amounted to 151m and 200 000 euros. However, we still have no official data on how much of these funds are actually used, but the older data suggests that there are many problems in the sector. I quote the head of the European Union mission in Croatia, Paul Vandoren, who said two days ago in Varazdin that Croatia has a lot of money available from European funds, but it must prepare its own infrastructure and projects to make use of this money. He also said that before the use of funds, there should be developed infrastructure, human resources that will, of course, prepare and implement the project. In light of Croatia's future accession to the European Union, it should certainly be said that the current territorial division into municipalities, counties, cities is an obstacle to the use of these funds from pre-accession funds. Further problems arise from the absence of adequate regional policy, consistent development strategies and non-connection of the relevant institutional bodies. Local and regional self-government units face a lack of funding for capital and infrastructure projects. As most of the Union's pre-accession funds are irrevocable, the possibility for local and regional self-government units to apply for these funds is opened, thus implementing growing capital and infrastructure projects. Unless we make sufficient use of available funds from pre-accession funds, there is a possibility, or there is a problem of a possible return of amounts from those received through funds. Lower-level leaders mainly stress that the problem is in government and ministries. The main problem is the SAPARD and IPARD funds where conditions are primarily dictated by the government. 2008 situation, for example. shows that the biggest problem with the realisation of funds from the programmes themselves is. By the end of that year, only 8.9m euros or 35% of total projected funds were agreed, but there is an ISPA programme where a little more than 24m euros or 41% of the total projected funds were agreed during the same period. There is something to be said about the overall suspicion that Croatia will complete negotiations by the end of this year, given the recent circumstances and developments. In the report, the date was taken as a sure fact, but the question is how much more realistic it is today. There are fewer and fewer Union officials and member states who believe Croatia will be able to conclude negotiations during this year, as recently believed. The number of skeptics about reaching this deadline increased after an intergovernmental conference when it was seen that Croatia had not arrived to open all remaining chapters during April, which was necessary for the negotiations to be concluded by the end of 2010. So, all three so far unopened chapters remain in that status and remain. Market competition, justice, foreign policy and security. The functioning of the European Union in this regard, especially the stories of some new enlargement, are becoming difficult issues for many European politicians. Let us just point out that the current, not only but above all the Greek financial crisis in the still semi-recession environment of the European Union is burdening our negotiations more discreetly, especially the story of some future enlargement of the community. There are therefore three main obstacles to Croatia's completion of negotiations this year. Most importantly, it is not related to Croatia but to the poor experience of the European Union after the entry of Romania and Bulgaria. A debate has already begun among the EU states in informal talks in Brussels on whether Croatia should be admitted with some additional surveillance mechanisms such as for Bulgaria and Romania. However, Commissioner File has removed such a possibility, but it is still circulating in talks on our country. Another obstacle to the goal of closing negotiations this year remains an unresolved dispute with the Hague war crimes prosecutor's office, although the Member States have agreed to make a call for Croatia to represent the negotiating position. Many diplomats say it is very bad that this chapter does not open during April. And the third problem is restructuring the shipyard. Whatever Croatia does will have to be in line with the agreement with the European Union. In Brussels, of course, they say that the speed is primarily dependent on Croatia. So although the responsibility for opening some of these chapters is not formally in the hands of Croatia. The delay in opening will reflect a delay in closing negotiations that will enter 2011. The chapter on foreign policy blocked Slovenia, which announced the deblocking And I'm done. [[Intruder Shakespeare: A colleague please!]] There is no doubt that Croatia will become the first country to join the European Union after Romania and Bulgaria's accession independently of time. But to join the European Union, we need not only constitutional changes but changes in attitude towards a whole series of very important chapters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51837	So he plays the word constitutional change, changes in attitude. Ms. Representative Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51838	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear as has been said already during the morning debate that the report of the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations in the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009 deserves our full support because the role and importance of the National Committee is extremely important. We've known that since the beginning of his action. We know how the board was founded and what are its most important tasks. In a way, it should inhale this parliamentary dimension throughout the monitoring of the course of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. And I think that in some ways you should serve and serve as a platform for me to call it fostering an inter-party consensus on issues of strategic national interest when it comes to joining the Croatian European Union. The satisfaction we can express by the existence and work of a body like this cannot, however, be spilled entirely to this substantive side of the negotiations, and especially not to the information of the public what they pointed to during the morning debate of many of my colleagues and colleagues. I believe that the work of the National Committee certainly involves a high level of mutual respect for actors on the political scene. It also involves the delivery of quality and relevant information on the course of the negotiations, which also means representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and, of course, the involvement and parliamentary minority in the debate and the decision on issues of the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, I believe that we may also have the right to comment, as we do not talk enough about the most important issues for the future of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, we are not agreeing enough, or we are not agreeing and we are not talking to the extent to which this should be in view of all the problems and challenges that lie ahead of us during this process. Here I think that not only of us in the Croatian Parliament but also of the public, the representatives of different associations that are interested in joining the European Union, citizens and citizens in general. A few days ago, therefore, an intergovernmental conference was held in Brussels, which, unfortunately, was not successful to the extent to which we expected it to be. Of course, this is not just about problems such as the problem of co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for Crimes committed in the area of the former Yugoslavia and the delivery of documents required by the chief Hague prosecutor. There are some other problems we talked about this morning. But most of all, I believe that this is actually the government's unwillingness to deal with problems in the economy, firstly in the Republic of Croatia, to propose and start implementing a long-term and sustainable development and social policy that will guarantee Croatia's progress in the next two years and prepare for the conditions that will welcome us, i.e. which will take place after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In this respect, it is clear that the government shows a certain lack of capacity, the incompetence that I am sure that I am citizens with my own voice very clearly, so the opinion on this government and its policy will express in the elections whenever they are held. This recent development of events, so this intergovernmental conference gives us less right to be optimistic about the date of the end of the negotiations that we also talked about today. We heard the date was important and the date didn't matter either. He's not himself anyway. The HDZ government and its former prime minister have set many times different dates and different unrealistic scenarios for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. And of course that didn't happen. No one wants that scenario to happen again. So, again, to set one unrealistic date and not be able to carry out all quality preparations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to, therefore, look back on the need for a stronger and better implementation of communication strategies regarding accession negotiations. The strategy exists, however, I am not sure that it has given and that it gives results that citizens and citizens expect from it. I believe that in Croatia, there is not at all a right to have a public debate on the advantages and disadvantages of membership in the European Union. There is no discussion about what kind of society we want to live in the Republic of Croatia. So today in Croatia and tomorrow in Croatia and tomorrow in the European Union. It is not discussed whether, as a community of citizens and citizens, we are prepared as individuals and individuals to be prepared for the challenges that await us when we join. Are we educated, informed about our rights both in Croatia and tomorrow as citizens and citizens of the European Union. There is also no debate on how and how to protect and promote the national strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, how to manage its most valuable potential. So human, natural. How to preserve sovereignty in financial, energy terms, in particular, and how to actually contribute to their culture and their identity to the wealth of the community such as the European Union. Whether our membership in the European Union is the goal of all objectives as we have recently heard or yet our goal is to achieve today or to start achieving one social state, then tomorrow and contribute to the achievement of a social Europe, one therefore equal society in both Croatia and the European Union. And also, is it really in our interest in Croatia that this European Union continues to expand to our southeast and east after the enlargement to the Republic of Croatia and that Croatia will contribute to that. I'm sure the answers to all these questions and dilemmas that I've asked here are, of course, positive. I think our goal must be everything I've just stated and much more. So, the full achievement of the social state, the full exercise of the right to free education and health care, to a clean environment, if you want the right to free media and the right to public television and the right to shipbuilding and domestic industry and financial and energy sovereignty. In any case, the European Union does not ask us to act obediently or blindly, it is certainly looking for responsible governments, responsible parliaments, responsible politicians and responsible citizens, and I am not sure that the current government and its prime minister are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51839	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51840	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So after a rather long debate on how accession negotiations are taking place with the European Union, I would like to finally say one, one perhaps different point of view when it comes to who to give priority, whether Croatia should give priority to solving its own problems or membership. In fact, we need to know where we are going in order to get anywhere, and above all, we need to set our goals, our national interests, because the European Union and the entry into the European Union cannot be a substitute for national interests first recognised and then achieved. We are not sure what our goals are, what our interests are, both in the economy and in other areas of society, whether they are health care, sports, culture or any other activity. So what I want to draw attention to is the need to define our own interests and objectives, and to solve problems accordingly, because the entry into the European Union can still be, given the possibility of certain political conditions that some countries place far away. Therefore, we cannot rely solely on the entry into the European Union, believe that Croatia's entry into the European Union will solve all our problems. By joining the European Union, our athletes will not run faster or continue to jump, nor will our swimmers swim faster, but neither will our economy withdraw more funds from the European Union, there has been a risk here that due to the unimplemented different forms of reform we will pay more than we will withdraw. Of course it's up to us. As a society, as a state and so far, we have had the opportunity to withdraw certain funds not only from European funds, but also to make it possible for different investors, and many projects have stood by and still stand by the drawers of different state bodies that need to decide and which have no courage to decide whether to go into some projects or not, and this is largely held by us and in increased economic problems, and it affects the employment situation. Therefore, my party's expectation is, first of all, to solve our own problems when the European Union comes, let's not ignore it, but let's not believe that there are no serious political constraints on which we can influence foreign policy, but there are also some issues to which we can influence it. So let's turn to ourselves, solve our problems, and we'll be better off in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51841	Thank you. Final review, National Committee Chairman, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51842	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I really thank you on behalf of the National Committee for an interesting and contentious debate. I think it has shown that it is actually good to use a report like this as a basis for one debate on where we are at this point on our way to the European Union and how this is practically reflected in what we do or should work or not work sufficiently in the country itself. The point of the consensus is that, and that's how I listened to this debate, that actually what we have in common is that we want to succeed, we all want to succeed in this project. And our big decision and the first point, so perhaps in some way the most important point of the negotiations is the first, first result of the negotiations, and this was the result of negotiations with ourselves whether or not we want to do so, whether we want to use the systematic experience of European nations, to facilitate and speed up our own reforms and to turn Croatia into a user friendly country, or a country that is useful and well-meaning towards all its citizens. This is our common goal, and in doing so, the use of the systematiced experience of European nations helps us and that is the purpose of this whole process. In the debate, some of my colleagues reminded me and I want to use it now to thank him for this period on July 1st to December 31st 2009, so the period of the Swedish Presidency played a great role in the Swedish presidency and we have something to thank him for. I, before the Swedishs took over the presidency, had a long conversation with the Swedish Foreign Minister, and with the Swedish, then Swedish Minister for European Affairs, who in the meantime became their Commissioner in the European Commission, and everything they then presented as the plan for their presidency and realised very successfully, and perhaps this is one example for us, which means credibility in international relations and how important it is. So the Swedish presidency really helped greatly to get out of place during that period. On several topics mentioned in these discussions, I tried to sum them up at 6 or 7 points. One of the topics that people have dealt with is the issue of constitutional change, namely the amendment of the Constitution limited solely to what is necessary for membership in the European Union. Contrary to the amendments to the Constitution which are necessary for membership in the European Union, there is something else. It does not exist, I repeat, there is no proposal on the tables which is limited exclusively to what is necessary for the European Union. There are only a number of variations of the European Union plus some other topics in the amendments to the Constitution. This will, of course, be the decision of this Parliament as a whole, since, as is known, no one can make the Constitution on its own, so neither the position nor the opposition. Therefore, there is a need for unity, but no one proposes to limit itself solely to what is necessary for EU membership but only differs in addition to which different sides they propose. Secondly, we have been mentioned how difficult it is for us to have Chapter 23. It's my opinion that the whole process wouldn't be worth it if we didn't have Chapter 23. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – Justice and fundamental rights, which assumes judicial reform and many other things. So, the issue of the protection of high standards in the protection of human rights, the rights of national minorities, the completion of some processes that have not yet been completed in Croatia in this regard. But reforming the judiciary is a presumption, which is why we need a systematic experience of European nations. Without judicial reform, the whole process is not worth it. And it is one of perhaps a few reforms that we must practically begin to implement before the negotiations end. It may be the hardest reform, there may be the most resistance, but that's why it's so important. This is the basis for the security of investment, the security of citizens, the quality of life, whatever you want to touch this Chapter 23 is the basis of it, and there is, we have seriously started to deal with a topic that is crucial, regardless of all European requirements, which is crucial to us, which is the quality of judges and the quality of the trial, we have begun to deal with de facto after all action plans and strategies that did not have a lot of chance to change something at the end of last year when we passed the Law on a different way of selecting judges, objectifying the criteria for selecting judges and a different way of progress in the system. The National Committee has made sure that these criteria enter our negotiating position. They are now in a negotiating position for Chapter 23 sent to the Commission. And we will not be able to finish, and it is good that we will not be able to complete the negotiations until we have shown that the judicial reform in this regard is practically working. It is something that is directly beneficial to Croatian citizens, frankly on which the EU itself does not insist, but that is the point where, because of its quality of life and the quality of life of our citizens, we must have more and more serious criteria than anyone on the outside. And from that point of view, it's absolutely crucial to us. The mention and monitoring or monitoring of the realisation and the laws and decisions of those chapters that have already been closed, this monitoring has already begun. It's already being done at this point, and it's going to be the first report. For us, this is unusually important because how we operate in the chapters that we have closed, here I warn of what colleagues have said about science and research, about how we operate in the chapters we have closed will depend on whether after we have finished negotiations and become members we will continue to have a kind of tutorship, or monitoring by the EU. I warn that this type of monitoring was both Romania and Bulgaria and there are certain initiatives that Croatia will also receive the monitoring after membership. It's in our interest, not because it's some shame to have that monitoring, but what the fact that you have monitoring means that you're still quite far from where you'd like to be. So it is in our interest to undoubtedly secure for ourselves a level where such monitoring will not be necessary after the negotiations have ended, and of course it will serve to assess how we are already functioning in those chapters that we have closed. The third point, preparation for the use of the funds in 2012, 2013 and later, but 2012 and 2013 are this before the next budget comes or what is already called the EU's financial perspective there. That's the famous 3.5 billion minus a billion and 200 million euros we're talking about. We do not have at this time, people, an educated team of experts who are able to write these projects, monitor the accounting spending of funds and report on the implementation of these projects. It's about time, and in the National Committee, we're going to restart this, but it's high time that, through the instruments that exist, we select people in the state administration and we start to educate them. 100 people for 100 projects. In this respect, it is also important to change the way in which the budget is drawn up and structured. Because our budget will have to be able to monitor the use of these funds that are currently not in this form. As you know, 15% on average are domestic and 85% European. We can't get into a situation where we can't buy 85 kn for 15 kn, and that's what we're offered. Let's get 85 kuna in 15 kn. But we need to secure that 15 kn, so that 15% of the funds and, of course, invest in project building. A communication strategy was mentioned, and I had a lot of debates with different people involved. It is a great honor for all people, but the measure of success of the communication strategy is not that those who are in charge of it tell you about everything they have done but the measure of success is how familiar they are with the actual content of EU membership and the consequences for them. And these people can be the best, and the communication strategy can be very cleverly written on paper, but if people don't know in Croatia what is waiting for them, and they don't know how to use the EU institutions, and they don't know, we don't know here, then the communication strategy doesn't work. The proof that there's a cookie is that you can eat it, and everything else doesn't work. So, in this particular case, we need to sit down, strengthen, redefine, and add mass of things to that communication strategy where the whole thing is simplified first, secondly, where it comes much faster to people, thirdly where people get acquainted with practical processes, how to get to the project, where, where you get information, who you get to, who there is at all, what will happen to prices, what will happen to a series of things after membership. The example mentioned by a number of colleagues, among other things by Bodakosh, is an example of agriculture. Agriculture is extremely important and interesting here, there are a number of things, we've been looking for 29 delays. We do not know how much we will get, when we have completed negotiations in this chapter we will certainly inform and from now on from this period we will keep Parliament informed of all the chapters we have asked for, what we have received, because we are able to do so now, because we have a sufficient number of completed chapters. In agriculture, people are the most afraid. On the other hand, you have an example of Poland, where Polish farmers, Polish peasants were the greatest skeptics and enemies of Poland's entry into the European Union and today they are one of the most satisfied segments of the population. They believe that most of the European Union has profited and has 80 % support. But apparently Poland was phenomenally prepared. Whether we're gonna be successful or not depends on how we're prepared, but of course it depends on how many people know about it, and what we've been doing so far isn't good enough and I'm totally okay with it, and let's not say it's not against anyone, self-critically, critically however you want, but let's start from the fact that people don't know a lot about it and that they need to adapt and figure out a way, because then it just makes sense that they'll know enough that they don't feel dangerous, unknown, strange, and that they don't miss the opportunities that open up there. Fifthly, time is an integral part of the content, it needs in my opinion, and it is important and often spoken and is often said in our discussions whether content or time. The deadline for Croatia is an integral part of the content, partly because of what counterpart Pejcinović Burić said and part of it because of Croatia's influence within the European Union will be largely based on Croatia's influence in our region, and Croatia's influence in our region will be largely based on our success in achieving membership in the European Union and the experiences we have through which we can offer through specific knowledge in different forms to our neighbours who are not there yet. No country can lead in all things, but European reforms are one thing in which Croatia can be a leader in the region, provided that we are on that path and in the business, and that is why time is an integral part of the content for us. In front of us, there is no doubt that the political phase of the negotiations but with many practically organisational tasks, neither should be ignored without each other and it is no wonder that if you want to enter one of the other political associations you have both political tasks and political obstacles to politics at least we would have to know that too is business. And that one job if it's done successfully will be successful if it doesn't. Finally, there are certain indications that this was finally mentioned whether we would arrive or not to conclude the negotiations. There are certain indications that the Spanish Presidency could also approve an intergovernmental conference in May, if we are prepared, and that even in June could possibly organise not one but two. Whether this will happen depends on the extent to which we do our practical organisational work, or the Croatian side, but also on the political, to which we are able, externally to create an atmosphere in which we have the support. The Spanish Presidency has been very positive in this regard to Croatia, but one part of this main part of the job is ours, and in these few months, we will probably have our own foreign policy on the one hand, and by organisational technical means on the other hand, we will determine whether we will end negotiations this year or not, and I hope we all warmly want to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51843	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51844	7th, Report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 01 July to 31 December 2009. The applicant is the National Committee, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting in the opinion of the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 01 July to 31 December 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 110 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51845	We will skip point 2 because the proposing representatives are prevented. Let's go to point three. - Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2009, the Government submitted this Report on the basis of Article 111. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. The minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity Tomislav Ivic will further explain the report's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51846	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you is another Annual Report on the Implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences in the past 2009, I think you will all agree with me that this is a truly thorough, comprehensive and comprehensive report confirming the fact that the Republic of Croatia has a well-organised system of care for Croatian defenders, members of their families but above all about the victims of the Homeland War. In this respect, Croatia has nothing in particular because similar systems of care for the victims of war have other countries and in our neighbouring environments than Slovenia, Bosnia, Serbia but other countries, in particular, I think of the United States and Israel that often war. So countries that have lost wars care for the victims of war. And that's the rule in the world. What is particularly important and important for the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and members of their families is that this is an enforceable law, in other words that it is actually implemented in practice, that the state of its obligations arising from the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders is calming down neatly and that what has happened very often does not happen, that there is a legal provision that is not implemented in practice or that is partially implemented, and that obligations that must be made which must be dealt with sooner or later. We've had cases like this over the past 6.5 years when we had to pay almost a billion and a half kuna out of the state budget on the basis of the legal provisions that existed but that were not consistently applied. This report shows that in 2009 6 billion kunas, or 70 million kunas, were secured and realised in 2009 for the implementation of the law from the state budget, more than in 2008. So it's not a big increase, very small in percentage. What I said and the introduction all the obligations were done, and I'm just going to mention some of the most significant ones that were implemented under the law. All obligations under permanent rights to the victims of the Homeland War have been carried out neatly, according to the Croatian Military Disabilities, according to families of the dead, imprisoned and missing. The obligation to obtain orthopedic aids for those who are legally entitled has been regulated. In the last year, the state also delivered 119 cars for 100% of Croatian military disabled first group, so for the most difficult Croatian military disabled. Free textbooks are provided for 15 thousand 790 children of Croatian defenders under the law and with the use of property censors. 802 requests by Croatian defenders, or their families, have been settled in a housing manner. A successful programme of employment of Croatian defenders adopted by the Government is being implemented and can especially mention one of the most successful measures of this programme, Defence Co-operation was founded only last year with the support of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity 66 new cooperatives. In total, over 400 are now, and with direct support from the ministry around 300 were established. A successful programme of rehabilitation of Croatian military disabled persons is being implemented, and through a programme to improve the quality of life in the families of the dead Croatian defenders, Croatian military disableds, a systematic review of a thousand 391 persons from the family of Croatian defenders has been carried out. What is unfortunately inevitable with military honors and with cost coverage is buried a thousand 232 Croatian defenders. Of course, I mean pensions, whether it's a disability pension, whether it's family pensions that were properly executed last year. In the past year, the Croatian Defence Fund, one of the strongest funds in the country, also performed very successfully. And regardless of this difficult and complex economic situation, the fund made a significant profit in 2009. Winning the fund was 247 million kuna or 25% more than it was in 2008. The total value of the assets at the end of 2009 was 2.3 billion or 2 billion and 300 million kuna, which is more than the end of 2008. It also increased the value of the participation in the Croatian Defence Fund, so that at the end of the year the value of the stake was 723 kuna or 27% more than at the end of 2008. And I am pleased to say that these days it has increased the value of participating in the Croatian Defence Fund, it is almost 800 kuna. Based on such good results in the business of the Croatian Defence Fund, the Croatian Defence Fund has also successfully worked for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders. So it's 2009 for the 2009/2010 school year. 10 thousand 257 scholarships for students and high school students were approved from the Fund, which was secured from the profits of the Croatian Defence Fund 63 million kuna. It's about scholarships that amount to thousands of kuna for students and 400 kuna for high school students. And I am pleased to say that over the past 4 academic or school years through this scholarship fund, and based on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund, more than 30,000 scholarships for Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders have been provided. The Croatian Defence Foundation, which also received funds from the achieved acquisition of the Croatian Defence Fund, also worked successfully, and from this foundation in the past year 9410 requests by Croatian defenders were positively resolved for financial support and 20.5 million kuna was paid out of the Croatian Defence Fund for this purpose. So, from all that I have said so far, it is clear that, when it comes to Croatian defenders and members of their families in 2009, regardless of all the difficulties that we have had as a state in the budgetary, financial sense, that Croatian defenders have not been denied anything, however, that the state has done everything to carry out everything that belongs to Croatian defenders through legal regulations. I said that every modern and organized state takes special care of the participants of the Homeland War, especially the victims of the Homeland War. I will repeat here that the thesis I always and on every occasion say that Croatian defenders are the most responsible for defending and creating an independent, sovereign, democratic Croatia and that it is not about any privileges, because the privileges cannot be called the rights resulting from the damage in the Homeland War. And especially if we know that the financial resources that are directed through the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences are directed towards this population, almost 97% refers to the victims of the Homeland War, and only 3.4% refers to Croatian defenders. And I'm also going to say that because lately there's been a lot of debate about the fact that the vast majority of Croatian defenders, 80% of them, so almost 380 thousand are in a working relationship, so out of a working relationship, they realize existence for themselves and for their family. So when we talk about what is called the rights of the Croatian Defence Act, and what I just said was that this applies primarily to the families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, that this applies to Croatian wartime wartime disabled people, so those who lost parts of their body in the defence of the Republic of Croatia or who are ill, and the disease is caused by just participating in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Here's to this. Thank you very much, and here we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51847	Thank you. The War Veterans Committee? The Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51848	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, secretary, fellow MPs, MPs. Here, as Minister Ivić said in the introduction, I absolutely agree that defenders are the most responsible for the creation of the Republic of Croatia and of course we have to honor them this time for what they gave, and many have died, 14 thousand people died, 35,000 wounded, 1100 missing. There is no doubt about it, and we must always highlight this contribution that Croatian defenders, Croatian citizens, and other Croatian citizens who were not members of the Croatian Army, but in another way have contributed to the creation of the Republic of Croatia, and we must also honor them and we will thank the Croatian defenders this way for what they have done to create an independent Republic of Croatia. Also, as Minister Ivić said in the introduction, I will repeat a few words. I absolutely agree that this is a good example of how a report can be done well, constructively, correctly. I haven't been there in a long time, but the previous reports were certainly worse than what we have now and we have to say it clearly, it's a lot of things reviewed, a lot of things are being read and anyone who wants to read them can read a lot of things and suggest new things, etc. Of course, according to that, we're going to point out some things and I'm going to suggest some things and I hope to come across an understanding from the people who are now running the Department of Defense. I'll also say that the SDP club will support this report and we'll be in, of course we'll eventually accept and we'll be in. Here are a few things for what I think should be warned of the minister as the most responsible person now. By reading the report I found and there I should see and see and perhaps otherwise, I am glad that today the minister is here, Minister Ivić, because the ministers usually bypass us and send their assistants and secretaries. Based on the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will refer a little to the pensions we gave to the members of the Croatian Defence Council. In the area of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families in 2009, the averages were, we saw in the report 5963 users of different pensions, disability and family and spent around 220 million kuna. In 2006, I was not here at the time, but I found it, there was a debate in the Parliament, and Minister Ivić was just speaking as a secretary about the problem. He said in the opening part of the proposal that the implementation will take place within 3 years, in 2006, I will quote family members, in 2007, 1100 war people with disabilities who have passed the disability assessment process, and in 2008, another 2500 HV war people would be disposed of, giving a total of around 4 thousand users. I just want to say that we now have 2,000 people who have obtained disability and pension status, 2,000 people, that this has increased compared to 2008. Ninety-three percent and we've spent, of course, about two hundred and twenty million kunas now. And I want to say this and point out that this example was perhaps unreal planning and that it should take account of future projections and cost planning and that this should be approached more seriously, more thoroughly, and I was able to delude perhaps the representatives when they proposed funds for the implementation of the law. Also from the report itself, I'm going to be a little bit of a referee on housing care and loaning of defenders, you saw that last year and this year the most unfortunately there's some funds taken away, although we have to be clear and say that the Ministry of Defence has not been affected by these rebalances too much budgets except this item two housing loans something for associations stemmed from the Homeland War. We'll talk about it later. And that I'm here, of course, I have to express my concern because we have a lot more, a lot of people who are disabled in the Homeland War. And I know the situation and it's not some kind of special criticism right now, I totally understand the situation today. But I think I'm more concerned about the future budget that's going to happen next year, whether the funds are going to shrink even less. We will, of course, have problems with the housing of members of the Croatian Army or defenders and the housing lending of people who were. About last year and this year the funds for... About 150 million kuna and that's enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a lot of impact on that housing fund, and yet when we look at the situation at POS's apartments, you see these apartments being built, which is good. Of course we support that and I support that, but that a lot of these apartments are empty. We have an example, a typical example in the city and elsewhere here in Zagreb, and I don't know maybe in that sense something would be done to make some kind of compensation, a deal, a contract to fill those apartments. The apartments are empty, the defenders are without apartments, the disabled are without apartments, and maybe it could be done correctly and constructively by doing good, doing good to get rid of these apartments, and doing good to people who are disabled in the Homeland War and who are without an apartment. As I said, we do not know what the budget will be for next year whether there will be any reductions, especially for the Ministry of Defence and Family and intergenerational solidarity. And here I hope we won't have any special trauma, given that it's a sensitive area, that we're all sensitive to the defenders and that we always have to show our concern and interest when it comes to defenders. Speaking of which, I'd also like to ask the minister if he's going to go into retirement cuts. Do we have information that, in what way we are fully aware, we should be fully realistic in today's situation and the crises in society and the things that are happening and I totally agree that defenders do not have to be a special caste in this society, that we all have to bear the burden equally. But if we're going to talk about cutting defense pensions, we need to think about the model, the way. Perhaps you should not go to a linear reduction in pensions for everyone, but consider how, in what way to watch the internship, watch the role within the Croatian Army, how many people have spent time, etc. Surely there are people who are more responsible, or certainly there are people who have never been in the Croatian Army who have received a certain pension, so perhaps you should consider, find criteria, all together to shake it up and suggest something that can really be satisfactory for all of us. Looking at and reading only the Report of course I said if you liked this and you liked this and the way this is going to be done and I'm going to tell you how fine it was done and how it's elaborated. I'll say a few words about the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. As the minister said, the profit is 247 million and that's good. It's one important and important thing and we have a consensus about it so far, even though some have tried to break it all together. But I think the policy he's leading for now I say the Defence Fund is good and he's showing profits and there we have to give the support absolutely and it's very correct and it's funding the trust fund and a lot of things that the minister himself has been talking about. But I'm going to refer a little bit to what's tied up in the fund. It is a representation of the numbers of members of the Croatian Army who went through the Homeland War. You've seen these data all together and you've seen that we have 501666 defenders. You have this by sector combat sector 440,000 and non-combat 18315. We have a combat and non-combat sector. I don't think that's the best and the happiest thing to do. Now we have a situation where we have a combat and non-combat defender at the same time in the same category. It needs to be either combat or non-combat, and between it is what it is. What? And I see there is, I know there is. I'm saying that maybe that's not the happiest solution. What I'm trying to say about this defense registry, which is that we've had some kind of campaign about it in the last few days. What was the goal and the idea was, and that's what I'm proposing to do to make that defence team categorization, that it's just amazing to me that we only have 18,000 in the non-combat sector. You can see it here for days and that's clearly transparent, but what you can't see is how many people have gone through combat units. That's what matters. You can't see that, so I'm asking, and that's why I think we have to make the Defence Register in the formation of the Croatian Army from the time of the war. So, '95. And '96. The end of the year and this is the Ministry of Defence, the administrative section, the main headquarters, the chamber areas, the military brigade, the Navy, aviation, the MUP, the basic police, the reserve Special Police, the national protection, civil protection, the firefighters, what categories I know that can be actors, athletes, politicians, journalists to see exactly who's where. We do not see from this exactly how much there is that I do not know the journalist who has won the status of defender, how many politicians he has won, how many actors he has received, how many other citizens who are otherwise responsible for the creation of the Republic of Croatia. As an example, I took the example from this illegally published Defence Register, part of the Defence Register, to print it. We clicked on 1.1.91. Well, an example of a name doesn't matter now, but the important thing is that it says he's a man of 1.10. In the '90s, in a unit that didn't exist back then. It didn't exist, just for example the 26th brigade was founded on 6.10.91. A year. And that's what I want to say. That is why it is important for this register to be made categorized in such a way that we separate the defenders who were on the front line of the front line, the people who were screaming, killed, fought, who were fighting, who were destroying tanks from those who were otherwise responsible for the creation of the Republic of Croatia. In another way, I'm saying, I'm not even talking about a half a million-dollar number right now but another way. But to categorize it, to separate it and to make these persons, those who otherwise have achieved the status of defenders that they cannot have problems with PTSD and cannot have, cannot achieve the basis of PTSD disability and I don't know what else comes out of the law. And that's why I think in this context, we need to do certain things with the register, we need to sit down the minister. I'll come to the minister so we can see what we can do, how we can finally close that story once and for all without the heavy trench fight that's being fought and probably going to lead if we don't find some common consensus about the defenders themselves. It's a very important topic for me, a sensitive subject. The spirits get really excited and come out of their rooms when that story opens, and that's why I think that for the sake of the Homeland War, for the dignity of the people who died, the wounded, for the dignity of all the defenders... That we have to solve this story in a good, honest, true way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's visible is that for now we have about 24,000 unemployed defenders. And I'm fully aware of the measures taken by the Department of Defense and that's fine, we support that, of course. But in the trend of general unemployment in the last few months, that number has increased. Now we have 24,000 and some people and it's worrying. These are people unfortunately 50 and midlifes and more and very difficult they will be in a position to find... and that is where we must find common efforts, and we must find all together both the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Tourism and other ministries to find common efforts, because according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, defenders have the right and the championship of admission to work, and unfortunately this is very often not respected, so that for that category of people who were in the Homeland War, who were 5 years old, lost their jobs, we have to be simply sensitive, I don't know what to do, maybe to make a list of the most vulnerable defenders in the ministry so that we can see how these people are helped and financially and to force other ministries that are involved and that in one way produce jobs, to point out to them the defender problem, to commit the same people in the ministries that they have to take care of exclusive defenders. [[You don't understand.]] We had an example in Sinj the other day, I have to say that here when two defenders are also union commissioners, people who have three children, who have car drivers Sinj lost their job in a brutal way and started to strike hunger, after 6, 7 days they were already in such a state that it was worrying. What I want, if time were slowly coming to an end, I want to say, and in particular, here at point, chapter 13, is talking about a psychosocial program I would also say to a health program. You've seen here how many preventive checks have been carried out, and you've seen how many people died last year, so somewhere around a thousand 600 people died, of which 200 and some defenders, disabled Homeland War, and that's what I mean, where we have to get a consensus. I am pleased to have a lot of doctors here, from Mr Hebrang, Turic, not to forget now to Miranda Mrsic, Rajko Ostojić who were inside the system, who were, who were defenders and who should absolutely open the door and give us some kind of line to improve the health care system for defenders. ... So far we haven't done this seriously, we've done all of a thousand and some examinations, I think we have to do this rehabilitation center, it can be anywhere, and we can do a few things, a classic rehabilitation for defenders of all kinds and other people, to work, to record the problems of the defender, and to do preventive checks, to do that fight against PTSD, to offer that rehabilitation to our people who have returned from Afghanistan. [[You don't understand.]] For the third time, the guys are going up by, it's almost two years, nobody's really dealing with them, and we're offering it to NATO, countries that work together with our boys in Afghanistan, and we can get a lot of funding out. I think it's a very important, crucial thing. And one more thing about that in terms of saying, we don't have... Home for the defenders. [[You don't understand.]] We've got disabled people, 100% disabled, who are in a wheelchair, who are slowly losing their parents, they're gonna be alone, we need to take care of where we're going with these people. It wouldn't be bad to suggest, to make, we have a lot of abandoned military around Zagreb, in Dalmatia, in the east, in the north, a lot of Croatian military properties that we can use, make... Homes for defenders with certain social and health care, and we have to, that's what's important, that's the future. [[You don't understand.]] We need to improve health care for defenders. That's what I'm saying, like, in the end, and I think we all have to do something together that would satisfy what's called life, what's called existence. The way we're gonna get these people... As soon as possible in society, we'll provide them with something that's important, which is necessary, and we know that these waiting lists, even though they're cut short, that people are waiting a lot, to spend a lot of time in hospitals, and that these people are short fuses. [[You don't understand.]] They are trained and prepared to fight, you must be aware, we all know and need to find them, that you need understanding for these people and not only treat them as some special caste that takes, but the caste that gives to this society, they are the wealth of this society and they... A lot of things. [[You don't understand.]] There you go, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51849	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51850	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Here on page 3, these costs were recapitulated according to all the rights listed here, and it is said that in the state budget for the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War last year 6 billion 283 million kuna, then, among other things, the permanent monetary rights are said to be 853 million kuna, the housing of the 122 million kuna, pension insurance rights 5 billion and 16 million kuna, health insurance rights 131 million kuna, cars absolutely need to remain 12.2 million kuna for 100 percent disabled, free textbooks for children 18.3, employment of Croatian defenders 35.3 million kuna, customs tax relief of 40.9 million kuna, co-operation that I do not collect everything with the Associations of Home War 18.8 million kunas, so that they will not support the government. He will, he will, but let's let it go now. So about 5% of the Republic of Croatia's budget goes under quotes for defenders. It's not in any way controversial, there are two issues, e.g. why World War II disableds are not equal to those with disabilities from the Homeland War. I don't want gentlemen who are laughing on the other side to convince the atmosphere now from Jasenovac. And secondly, why did the government react so nervously about publishing the so-called. And the godfather's guard's register as well. So something that was supposed to be the most normal turned into a first-class political scandal. It is certainly one thing, that if the change of government, and for God's sake what mood it will be, then that register will certainly be published by Mr. Djakic. Finally, foreign governments as you all know, foreigners have full insight into the register, if that's how it is then that register can't be military or state secret, it wasn't even classified. It can't be an official secret either, but eventually the publication of the same can be treated as the publication of some banking secrets, to be cynical. Why? Well, on the property of that register is... The bank, i.e. their investment fund, which the minister also recently said was successful in business and income or made a profit of 247 million kuna last year. [[You don't understand.]] Here I think that's the key to the debate I'd say in this report. Why? Gentlemen, when we talk about this report, everything comes from exactly that number of defenders, whether that figure is real, whether the figure is real 360 or 380 thousand or 500 and so many thousands. I personally believe the late Croatian president is Mr. Franjo Tudjman in '96. The year when he spoke to his member of the Croatian MPs, or to the Croatian nation, he correctly estimated the number of defenders with a figure of 300,000 at the time. So this difference up to 500 and so many thousands, or these extra 140, almost 150 thousand new defenders in the register in the last 14 years wanted someone to admit it or not to the system. Many of them took advantage of the system, including abuse, and it can be said that this is precisely the inclusion of such an army of newly-roasted defenders, if nothing else, and then certainly, for the pre-election needs of the party or parties that provided them with such status. I personally think that's where to go. It's not possible to talk about this report, and to this day we don't really know the actual number of defenders. On the other hand, any report of defenders who have appeared in this home so far has been unanimously accepted. It'll probably be the case, after Mr. Kotromanovic stepped up, and this time, but if that doesn't happen, the responsibility would be, clearly, on most. There's no need to share at least around this topic. When I'm talking about this topic, then I'm thinking about the register. Personally, I believe that the register should be published, that the fighting system should be separated from the non-combat that Kotromanovic was talking about. I am afraid that a large number of 150 thousand were smuggled into the register after 96 thousand, and there is no saying that the publication of this register was a time-threatening national security, and even less needed for such a panic reaction by Croatian authorities. Finally, the National Security Committee was also up for publication. For the announcement and for the real defenders, the real people with disabilities are absolutely for it. It's against those who keep something secret. And if they knew, on the other hand, the exact number of defenders and measures of the government, I'd say, which they suggested a few days ago, might have been milder. Maybe it wouldn't touch, under quotes, into so-called. "privileged defense pensions." Although I have the impression after that whistle in Jasenovac that the Partisans, their widows and children will eventually suffer. Although, to be honest, what bothers me when we talk about these special teams of privileged pensions, why do we call the locals, the Ustashas the Homeland Army? But let's let it go now. So, let's publish the Defence Register and now I'm going to go right to individual rights, a disabled person, the number of users in 2009 has increased by 6.42% compared to 2008. He was 48 thousand 999 registered, I don't get into those reasons, but the number of those disabilityes increased 6.5% compared to the year before. Here, I dare say that, I don't know, in 10 years, that number must have increased by 5 or 6 grand, and they all got PTSD. I'm afraid, too, there are those who snuck in. I don't think the disabled have too much compensation, though, the real cripple would always give the kuna more, the others get along, but the real disabled, the normal families of the victims always swear more, no less. I also agree with Mr. Djakic, I listened to him on TV, says that God gave to him who is against the disabled to have as many as the real people with disabilities, about. I absolutely agree, let them have rights, let them have consequences. Once again, real people with disabilities deserve respect to the sky, there's not much to be done. But know that the hand was also lost in '41. It's as valuable as the arm lost in '91. The supply, in 2009, is not large amounts, is paid for 8250 defenders, an increase of 23.25%. The family disability in 2009 uses 4.3% more. That's logical, people old, etc. Page 11. The aid allowance in the house in 2009 uses 14.94% more than 2008. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on technical and technical assistance and other technical assistance in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation. 14. Persons with disabilities have been paid the amount of so many thousands of kunas, which includes an allowance to help the Croatian Military Disabilities, an allowance for the dead, an allowance which is 53.61% more than in 2008. On page 2. The 20th is then given this recapitulation, I don't have time to quote, it's interesting and residential. Unfortunately, in 2009, these funds were reduced by 7 million kuna from 63.2 to 56.4 million kuna. Unfortunately, there are no apartments in the area, in Istria, where I come from. The most interesting, however, is the central part of this pension insurance. 31. Croatian defenders, I quote, from the Homeland War, "members of their families exercise the right to a disabled family's lowest pension and the right to pay in respect of the rights acquired on the basis of the remaining working capacity", while in 2009, expenditure on pensions and pension benefits of Croatian defenders amounted to 5 billion and 16 million kuna. In 2009, the pension was used by an average of 64 thousand 217 users, the temporary unemployment fee was used by 15 persons, and the salary paid in relation to the use of the right to professional rehabilitation of 17 users. In one word, the average pension in 2009 was 5783.70 kuna. On page 2. The 32nd is about disability pension, the right to a disability pension established by the provisions of the law, of the total number of pensioners in 2009 received a disability pension of 51752 users and that is, it says, by 11.26% more than 2008. 11.26% more than in 2008 where there were 46515 users, and expenditures amounted to 3.6 billion kuna. 11.26% more or right to a family pension, etc., I can quote that, but I won't. On page 2. 33rd Retirement, yes, members of the HVO, members of their families. In 2009 the pension was used on average by 5963 beneficiaries who were recognised under the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the field of war-suffering rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, of which there were 5 000 537 disability pensions, averaged 2 thousand 800 kuna and 426 family pensions, which averaged 3 thousand 578 kuna, and for which 220 million kuna were allocated. It is not disputed, I say, to ensure the disability of those who invited Croatian leaders to war on the ground of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is disputed when the controversy over President Josipovic's speech in Sarajevo raises some hair on the head and someone looks for the president to say the Americans impeachment. The truth is Josipovic's gesture of praise is valuable even though he may have been mild, etc. Because we for 5 thousand 963 people provide a disability, and another time we'll talk about whether it's shared or not by Bosnia. And I hope there are none among these who have been to Ahmic. Page 34 of the disability assessment review, second of all. So reviewing the disabled is possible, and the revision of the register is not possible. It just doesn't make sense. Everything goes back to the register, and that's why we publish that register, because as you feel in your midst, the publication of that register certainly will be made by our citizens. For the end of this review is correct, but all I would say about the register was childish, unnecessary for Croatia harmful and higher than anyone's reactions to the president's speech should only be put or additionally apostrophe and put on the cup.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51851	Thank you. A few corrections. First Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51852	Mr. Vice President. I will correct one only in a series of incorrect allegations Mr. Cain made, which is that it should have been normal for the government to publish the Register of Croatian defenders as well as for all others who objected against the publication of the register. Namely, I'll repeat to Mr. Cain as well as to everyone else. "It would not be normal for the Government of the Republic of Croatia or for us or for you to violate the Constitution and the law which clearly defined what can and cannot, which guarantees everyone the security and secrecy of personal data without the consent of... Personal data cannot be collected, processed and used." It says in the Constitution, Mr. Cain, and once we stick to constitutional norms, let's not insinuate, let's not put something on someone's burden that they could and should be normal. It is not normal if we are a legal state then it is not normal for me or for you or for the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51853	Ms. Representative Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51854	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm correcting a series of incorrect allegations that my colleague Cain made. Here's a colleague, Djakic, who fixed a part of which I also answered. And I would only remind my colleague Cain that six laws are being broken, or six laws before the constitution will pass the publication of the register. And immediately to correct and incorrect allegations by my colleague, I quote "the Spanish reaction of Croatian authorities to request the publication of the Croatian Defence Register". My friend, that's not true. It was not a panic reaction from Croatian authorities at all but a normal reaction in which the Croatian government is responsible for respecting the laws and regulations and the rule of law as a Croatian regulated rule of law. And yet another false assumption that defenders are a burden to the system. A colleague... You said that to a colleague. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You said the defenders were in a position of burden. Please, Mr. Vice President, allow me...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51855	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51856	So here I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the government reacted nervously. The government isn't nervous, it's in accordance with the law. But you all react just as nervously when we expect all those who receive a preferential pension at NOB's expense to be announced. Because some virtual Mirko and Slavko would be 85 years old today, and the rest would be up to 100 years old. So I'm wondering if we have as many residents over 85 years old as we have the recipient of NOR pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51857	Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mr. Cain in his debate said a number of incorrect allegations and it's in one of its styles normally. And I'm going to correct a really incorrect quote, but it's also offensive, when he said that even a day I quote "no real number of Croatian defenders is known". Mr. Cain, that's not true. Here's the report, page 45, open up and read this table that's been shown since '90. All the way back to '96. The exact number of years the defense attorney has been mobilized during which period, the new entry into defense units. And below is a chart where it has clearly shown the entire history of the Homeland War since the beginning of the '90s. Years of occupation in '91. Until '92. The largest mobilization of the largest number of defenders has been mobilized until the storm, when the largest number of defenders has also been mobilized. Those thesis are incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51859	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51860	Mr. Vice President, I have to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51861	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51862	I'll correct two incorrect allegations. First, says counterpart Cain for including an army of newly-roasted defenders, the number of 500 thousand defenders is too large. That's not true. There were between 600 and 650 thousand defenders in Croatia. I categorically say that, because as head of sanity, I knew exactly how many times there are, because according to the number of defenders, we organized a sanity. I'm also adding '97. After the war ended, we mobilized over 70,000 people if the negotiations for the Danube didn't end successfully. They don't have defense status, and they should have. So the number is underrated, not overrated. And secondly, he says, it's controversial when a man's talk puts his hair on his head. It's not a dispute. You and Josipovic should pass the course of history. Bosnia did not share Croatia, it was shared by the Council of Europe in early '92. Leo Tindeman, Boxtillero, Vance Owen, and finally Dayton.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51863	Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I have no custom of correcting incorrect allegations, but when something gets in the way and tells counterpart Cain that it is against the announcement that those who hide or hide something and that the consequences of what happened. Unfortunately, fellow Members, read the portals and you will see that a developed defender who has been driving a truck through Serbia for 10 years and that these days after the publication of the register has collected his data and has been accused in Belgrade of war crimes. And the question arises how many more defenders will randomly be asked out of that register just to have as many of those who were in the Homeland War, who are not guilty for nothing. Ask the family from the Grubish Field if they have any consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51865	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51866	Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kajin, you have, as part of some defensive or defensive stance in connection with President Josipovic's speech as his lawyer, tried to accuse the entire HVO, the defenders of the HVO that they were actually false and that they participated in... and the Republic of Croatia gives them a pension and the rest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what you said, that's how it comes from what you said. And if, you know well that Bosnia and Herzegovina has recognised the HVO as the defence component of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army. What right do you have to declare an aggressor force in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what right do you have to suspect these people who are on the list here in this material? ... I listened, and you listen to what I say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51867	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51868	I am correcting the incorrect quote of counterpart Caine, who said: that Croatian leaders have called for a war on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Did I quote you correctly? ... No, I was just thinking if I misread it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, if you said so, and I heard you say it, then it's primarily an incorrect assumption, and on the other hand it's one that's rude, which is corrupt, which is ultimately still sharing this tissue that ultimately is actually the result of what really the Croats responded to the defense on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, and that was primarily the big Serb aggression first on Croatia, and then on Bosnia and Herzegovina. So then the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina first volunteered in Croatia, and then, during the aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina, they returned and defended their homeland, and then the conflict between the Croats and Bosniaks was unfortunately the product and aggression on the B-axis and Hercegovina. An unfortunate conflict that has been harmful to one and the other and has not been handled nor been invited, especially from Croatia, because I am a witness of it, God knows and I witness it everywhere and always. Croatians played a key role in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia for the survival of Bosnia and Herzegovina, primarily as MPs in Parliament in the 1990s when they brought the Declaration of Independence to Bosnia and Herzegovina, later when the Croats came out... and voted on a referendum on Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51869	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51870	And later Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence and if there were no support from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina would not have been held as a state. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51871	Thank you. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. [[- Insect: Bravo.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51872	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues present with us a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families for the past period from January 1st to December 31st 2009, which the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community assesses with high quality and transparency and accepts it without reservation. During the observed reporting period, all the rights stemming from the Law on Croatian Defences and supported by financial indicators and the largest part of that financial cookie constitute pension insurance rights of 5 billion 16 million, 69 thousand 770 kuna, totalling 10% of almost all appropriations. This financial and pension insurance amounted to 64 thousand 217 users, with an average of EUR 5783.70. Out of this total disability pension, 51 thousand and 752 Croatian wartime disabled users and expenditures were 3 billion and 604 million and 56 thousand and 417 kuna, and the average disability pension was 5336.72 kuna. The family pension, which was settled in Article 24 until Article 30 of the Law, was received in 2009 by 12216 users and spent a total of a billion 117 million 658 thousand 532 kuna and the average family pension was 7748.87 kuna. The minimum pension resulting from Article 31 of the Law in paragraph 3 shall apply to non-retirementary defenders or insufficient to exercise the right to retire from 60 years of life for women, i.e. 65 years of life for men. And such a pension was the lowest benefit of 249 users and expenditures for this right were 7 million 974 thousand and 170 kuna. On average, it was 2270.58. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2033 defenders had a pension per month under the law of less than the lowest height and they are located in the total number of disabled pensioners. 10557 defenders receive only difference, i.e. part of the pension under the law of the lowest guaranteed pension under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. The temporary fee was used by 15 users and the right to professional rehabilitation of 17 users. Along with expenses and travel expenses paid 3 million 431 thousand 704 kuna. In accordance with the contract signed between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5963 total defenders exercised the right to retire, which were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families. So 5537 disability pensions that averaged 2808.95 kuna and 426 family pensions that averaged 3578.33 kuna per month. Total for these users is set aside in the budget of the ministry 220 million 557 thousand 756 kuna. Permanent monetary rights of Croatian defenders are defined through the personal disability of defenders whose organism has been damaged at least 20%. Croatian military disabled persons are entitled to an allowance for the care and assistance of another person, as well as an orthopaedic allowance, and the law requires rights based on the loss, captivity or disappearance of family members, and they exercise the right to a family disability increased family disability and increased family disability. In the reporting period there were 48999 persons with disabilities of 233 million 234 thousand 249 kuna and 49 limes per month. One of the defined rights is the provision for Croatian defenders who are unable to attract and meet the requirements prescribed by law. The supply is 33% of the budget base for the past year, with single users up by 50%. This right is used by an average of 8331 defenders or total expenditure of 154 million 386 thousand 29 kuna and 44 June. During the reporting period, 119 car brands Peugeot 407, Berlinga confort total value of 11 million 769 thousand kuna were allocated. Also during this reporting period, the ministry kept track of 138 children without both parents, i.e. 114 children without both parents, and 24 who were appointed guardian until their age. The law of prescribed rights was followed, and they were assisted in the course of education, scholarships, dormancy in dormitories, and assistance in employment or during unemployment. Housekeeping. Household care in 2009 was carried out in accordance with the legal provisions and the possibilities of the secured budget, so that 802 requirements, 92 apartments or houses owned by the Republic of Croatia, 710 housing loans or total housing of 122 million 119 thousand 205 kuna and 67 lipa were resolved in 2009. This year 628 apartments were prepared for construction at 11 locations in the Republic of Croatia where cities or municipalities provided land and infrastructure to facilitate the work of the Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Croatian Defence. The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Defence and the Rector's Assembly signed an agreement in 2007 that the constitutional provision abolished the possibility of enrolling children from higher education, and the incentive measures for enrolment in higher education institutions according to which universities under academic self-government can themselves experience encouraging measures to enrol candidates from the category in question who, due to the gravity of the consequences of the war, have been brought into an unequal position. With other candidates regarding access to higher education. The agreement covers and registers 4531 students. During the reporting period in question, we can look back on what is defined in this report, which is also the Croatian Defence Fund that certainly did not bring down all those who fired at him, who presented him as some kind of torture or some kind of money laundering. Surely, the fund has received extraordinary results and despite all the crisis times and all the attempts of its collapse, all attempts to keep it growing must have survived, remained a positive business compared to the previous report can be clearly and unequivocally said that during the reporting period the assets of the fund amounted to 2 billion 309 million, which makes the growth of assets beyond the last reporting period of 24 million kuna. This is due to the rise in the price of HT shares over the past period from 270 kuna to 292 kuna. So far, 30 scholarship students who have had a total amount of 175 million 914 thousand 600 kuna over the past four years have been provided with the Scholarship Fund. Only in the 2009/2010 school year. A scholarship of 10257 scholarship students totalling 63782 thousand kuna. The foundation itself also produced excellent results, and the Croatian Defence Foundation supported in various forms and for various purposes those who were certainly in trouble 9410 Croatian defenders, which totalled 20 million 426 thousand 662 kuna. And what I can finally say is that the co-operation of the Croatian Defence Ministry, as is evident and the support of the home war associations, is similar to the opportunities and needs, but we can say that in this year it has been reduced as agreed with associations arising from the Homeland War. Employment of Croatian defenders. We can talk about unemployed Croatian defenders from the total population of 501666 certainly only 24 to 26000 move those who are not employed and who do not have a job. Therefore, pro-active government measures as well as measures of the ministry which are for the recruitment of Croatian defenders from what is called grants or initial funds to Croatian defenders' cooperatives that certainly produce good results and which are visible and employment, but also make good income in the past period. Also through measures to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, surely a good part of Croatian defenders are able and employed and opening their trades or their companies. The professional training measures and their support certainly have an echo in the Croatian defenders and Croatian defenders' population. What is certain is that in 2009, the ministry supported the work of 66 Croatian defence cooperatives, and throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia they function. And the last fair held in Koprivnica certainly spoke about the extraordinary results achieved through the cooperative organisation. The Ministry supports and promotes cooperativeship, education of Croatian defenders, entrepreneurship and cooperatives, coordination between existing cooperatives, assistance in the establishment of new cooperatives. Therefore, clearly and unequivocally at all levels, the Croatian Ministry of Defence has taken note of the needs of Croatian defenders who certainly have an outstanding role in the creation of the Croatian state, who are the most responsible and who are mentioned in terms of defence, liberation and who have not deserved to be burdened against them by something they have not done, many times unconscious and only of the initiativeal trips of individuals and in Croatia's House of Commons, there is no doubt that the unsatisfactory findings that have adverse consequences for Croatian defenders, regardless of what their consequences are, and what we are saying today, and we have heard that the consequences of the PTSD and the increase of certainly disabled people have to think consistently and think about how they address Croatian defenders, what their problems are, and what their consequences are, and what we are saying today, and what we have heard that the consequences of PTSD are certainly disabled in recent years of their... Hospital, even recently it has been established that a good part of family members, i.e. A husband or children suffer from PTSD. [[You don't understand.]] This is what we are concerned about and what needs to be monitored and helped in the follow-up, PTSD centers that function in all our counties, I do not know if it is in the City of Zagreb... He lived in a secure space, but I hope he did, because years ago he wasn't there. [[You don't understand.]] It will certainly state the state of the Croatian defenders, the state of health, and what the ministry allows members of the Croatian defenders' family to also be controlled and paid for checks by the ministry in order to know their health status. We also had a discussion once about the state of health, which is whether Croatian defenders sooner or more often get better than the rest of the population of the Croatian people and certainly... He sees clearly and clearly from all data that they are more prone to both stress disorders and cancers and all other diseases that follow war events and events. [[You don't understand.]] As a representative club, we can say that we continue to believe that the Croatian Defence Ministry will prepare all the reports in such a transparent way, but also the measures that will help Croatian defenders in their further lives, because they deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51873	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51874	Here, Mr. Djakic mentioned a number of 501 thousand defenders. Mr. Hebrang just mentioned a number of 600 to 650 thousand defenders. If the number of 501 thousand defenders is underrated according to HDZ club president, then in an urgent historical truth, the figure needs to be increased by another 150 thousand today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51875	But it's not a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51876	Since '96. The year to this day the number has increased...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51877	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51878	By 150 grand, and now it should increase...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51879	Comrade Caine, you have come forward to correcting the incorrect allegations to MP Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51880	So here I am correcting the incorrect assumption that instead of 50,000...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51881	You're correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51882	Defendant. No, it's 600 to 650 thousand. Let's correct that historical injustice...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51883	Thank you very much. Well, you can't correct it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51884	Categories of people, and let's put them on the list... to publish their names. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51885	Mr. Cain, please! You cannot report for correcting the incorrect allegations to Djakic, and then correct the alleged claim by representatives, the club of HDZ Representative Andrija Hebrang. Thank you. HNS representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51886	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for last year 2009. The said law dates back to 1997 with changes in 2001 and 2004 and is now in place for 12 years. In the implementation of this law over the past period, we must certainly mention a number of good effects, but we must not forget the shortcomings and irregularities that were also there. Under this law, most of the Croatian war victims, Croatian wartime wartime disabled people, especially those who suffered the most. Most of them, in addition to the exercise of the right to a disability, have also exercised the right to housing, which is, in addition to health insurance rights, the fundamental and most important rights set out in this law. In cost recapitulation, according to all rights, and whose total amount is slightly higher than €6 billion 283 million, the largest item is pension insurance rights spent on circus 5 billion kuna or 79.36%. Then the costs for permanent money rights, amounting to 853 million kuna or 13.54%. The cost of health insurance allowances of Kuna 131.6 million or 2.1%, housing expenses of 122 million kuna or 1.94%, etc. The cost structure shows that most of the funds actually went from pension insurance to permanent rights, which was 92.9%. If we add 131 million to that that goes to health insurance and 122 million for housing, then we see that there is a very small amount of funds that we can target, for example, psychosocial programs where I've spent only $11.5 million. Here I would like to mention institutions that care about defenders, and are burdened with red tape with insufficient experts and are not and cannot be effective enough in the operational sense of direct psychosocial assistance. The system of care is inappropriate and unsuitable to the needs of defenders today. Care is based on the needs of established years ago, without introducing new measures and harmonising with real needs. I mention and cite the problem, for example, the disintegration of a family of defenders, with all social and economic effects. Aid measures for these cases do not exist or are not sufficiently present. For example, the possibility of providing family therapy is an essential form of approach that needs to be organised quite well, but also practiced. The report shows the increase of retired persons under this law. In 2003 there were about 20,000 retired people, in 2007, it increased to 38 thousand, and in 2008, it was 58 thousand 800, and last 2009 we are talking about 64 thousand 217 people. The report, therefore, says that today we have managed to take care of about 60 thousand people, and with total expenditure for defenders in the last year we spent 6.3 billion kuna, which accounts for 4.7% of the country's total expenditure in the year or which accounts for 1.9% of the total GDP. Whether it is much for Croatia or not, it is difficult to determine. But it is certain that this area is linked to a group that is socially and economically vulnerable and expenditures are more than justifiable. The question is, where would we end up if we put in the cost projection the difference between potential pension beneficiaries and 501 000? Will we also be able to care for the vast majority of true and true defenders of this country in the coming years? Further, the question, which bothers many defenders on the ground, is the question of calculating their pensions because there are cases on the ground where, for example, a defender with a pension of 3,500 on the overall war route, and by suffering better than his acquaintance who has several thousand kunas is a higher pension. An abandoned provision of the law which said that only a person who has established the status of the Croatian Military Disabilities whose status is determined by the competent authorities within the Croatian Defence Ministry in the second degree can apply for a defence pension has created a new situation in which the possibility of medical commissions within the Mirovna Insurance System is given to self-initiatively determine whether someone has been killed, whether his damages are related to war or not. Here, let me remind you of cases of diagnosis 1 and 2. It is evident that the increase in the number of people retired is due to such activities. By the way, I'm asking what's with the announced "Diagnosis 3"? In our opinion, such activities are best protected by the true and true defenders of this country. The report sets out the employment of Croatian defenders. In this area, we really need to do everything possible to get these people to work or start their own business. We therefore welcome all measures and funds invested in this area. My predecessors were talking about a series of categories, I'm going to skip it now, and I'm just going to look back at the financing of associations where it's mentioned, in this report, that they're funded by 19 million kunas and just count 107 associations. In our view, it is not good that it is only numbered but should have written with each association the amount of financial resources allocated to such associations. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think this report was supposed to contain that information, the more the previous reports were formed that way. The predecessors spoke about the publication of the Defence Register. We in the Croatian People's Party believe that the register should be published, but not in the way it happened, in violation of the law and the Constitution. Because in a country where it happens, where the law is broken, where the Constitution can't get out well. Because we stand behind the thesis that even the worst law should be obeyed so long as we do not change or abolish it. And finally, let me say that the representatives and representatives of the CNS will accept the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family for last year 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51887	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51888	Mr. Vice President, it is incorrect that this law dates back to '97. For years, that 12 years is in circulation. Namely, the amendments and additions and the important amendments to the law are from '94. years and I think it's been dating the law ever since, and then the rights are different defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51889	At 17 hours and 17 minutes, it is time to report a debate of 10 minutes. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51890	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with assistants, colleagues and fellow MPs. It must be clear to all of us that by looking and reading and following history and those who understand in history that there has been no country at all, since there has been a country at all, that it has not in any way rewarded those countries that were winners of the war, rewarded their soldiers and their defenders, their liberators, their disabled. Therefore, it is not disputed that the Croatian state as a state winner in the Liberation and Defence War does not do the same with its defenders. It was, or maybe there was a dispute, how do you do it? How do you do that? I think that what's the point of all the discussions being held, starting with this illegal publication of the register, I would say the list, the register is not our word, we have our words as much as we want for the Defence Registry, is that it was necessary to say, that the thanks, the merit of our defenders be evaluated and distributed justly, properly, truthfully and by merit. Is that so? That's another thing now. So, I don't think for a single second that our defender, and I also participated as well as, as he said, in the combat and non-combat sectors, since Mr. Kotromanović wonders that there are such, although I was in the hospital as a doctor, in the largest war hospital in Slavonski Brod where 8 500 Croatian defenders and civilians were treated and operated, so I was in the hospital, but I was also in special units on the ground when I was invited when my tour was to go around Croatia in the actions of the Special Unit of the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, what a surprise it is that there are people who have been in the fighting sector and in the non-combat sector. They were also not only doctors, but also medical technicians, nurses, and other staff I know personally who were, I know, the maid who was, working as a field nurse at Nova Gradiška, so on the front line of the battlefield. Therefore, it is unclear that Mr. Kotromanovic does not know that, I do not understand it at all. So, how to reward, how to thank these Croatian defenders, that is the basic question. Clearly, when the Croatian Defence Register was published, so I'm talking about this illegal register that came out in an illegal manner. It is not illegal but has come out in an illegal way, that people, seeing that list, saw these names clearly begin to understand that they exist on the list and those who are placed in various Croatian military units, which those defenders who really didn't know them about. Even if these units were to be lined up, it would only be possible to see how much they would recognize each other and how much of those who had spent very likely abroad in Munich, Vienna, Frankfurt, etc. And today, have defensive status. But this is not about this report, it's about the rights of the Croatian defenders, not the register, even though we started the register. And I think I'm gonna finish up on that register now. The HDSSB and other parties in this House have advocated legal publication of the register, believing it does no harm to anyone. On the contrary, I am personally proud of being a Croatian defender and not ashamed of it. And not just that. This constant denial of the need or publication of the register has actually produced in some way and such a side that there has been a breakthrough of any other hacker system of the Ministry of Information and the publication of the Croatian Defence Register. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you, how is it possible to break through and get this out? Although you from your ruling party, along with the ruling coalition partners, insisted that this should not be announced and voted in this Visko home clearly most of the hands raised in the Croatian Parliament. That's one thing. When it comes to rights, the personal invalids of the Croatian Military Persons, then it is recognizable in these tables that have been published here and that we have categories of 1 to 10 disabled persons, hence Croatian wartime disabled people who receive personal disability, there are those who are 20% or 30% disabled with a total of 26%. So 26% and the amount foreseen in kunas of 1. 12. 2009 is 26%. We still have these categories of 40 and over. So, those who gave part of their body, the organs, which are really disabled as someone said in the fighting sector. There is really no such money, no such rewards, no fee in any form that can compensate for a part of the body. But, Mr. Minister, as someone said, I don't know if you do, but I know people in my area who were with me on the field of special police, and I'm personally offered to write a war route and ask for disability because that's not the problem. But that's not what I wanted. But they also did this for these 15, 16 years of war through these tables and making significantly higher incomes than my salary. Because I didn't want to, I didn't go to war to stay disabled, I wanted to stay alive and free Croatia, and that was my only goal. But there are these differences. And I know personally now that I know that they were with me equally, they came back equally alive and healthy and there were no such incidents of that kind that would lead to disability. There are even more of those who take high positions in the executive office of the town of Brod or in the hospital in Slavonski Brod by doing very responsible jobs from surgeons, neurosurgeons, etc. Despite disability. So what kind of disability is that? I also know a person, unfortunately, who has been left behind for freeing from salary contributions for 10, 12 years in the amount of 320 thousand kuna in a piece. Let's not close our eyes to injustice and irregularities. I said right at the beginning, that's why I'm the people who participated, and mostly those who left their body part, the extremes, and there's no rewards for them because really no one can pay their hand, leg, eye, etc. He can't be paid for it, and he can't get it back. But the way in which the system is arranged and the possibility that the number of disabled people who are objectively looking at the committees of civil, peace-doping, the Invalidal Fund appears, then we see a significant difference in the degree of disability in the same ones. Let's take a concussion, for a concussion is 20% on the defense. And for a concussion, you don't even get a zero kuna from Croatia in a car accident. So is in... a peacetime working disability. Furthermore, I get a very common question from people who have worked for 40 years in companies why there's such a difference. I'm not saying that for those of you, I'm saying again, those who have really gained disability unfortunately in the war, who have gained disability, but when you look at that difference in these peacetime people where my patient who has lost his leg in the workplace has a 6-times less disability compensation compared to... I'm not saying that this first one is big but this one is small for the workers, although it's not the subject of today's debate, but it's really important, it's really a huge difference, and there are 220 thousand peacetime people with disabilities. He knows better than I do, because that's his party and his men to say. I see here that there has been a revision of these 566 cases for the past year, and there is also a way in which the results of that audit have been made. So it's just the commission, the ministries and the pensions differ in that it's the cause of disability, it's mostly on it, and not at the height of disability there's some significant difference. When speaking in this report on pensions of HVO members and members of their families and when the debate has developed, and especially in the light of the coming from the president of the Republic of Sarajevo, then it should be said clearly and loudly that the Republic of Croatia has recognised the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the Croatian people voted in Bosnia and Herzegovina for an independent Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the first war in Bosnia and Herzegovina was in Ravna, so in the Croatian village of Herzegovina, that the war started with the attack in fact from the Bosnian ship on the Slavonski Brod, so we could declare the aggression of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Republic of Croatia, where the first grenades began to fall on the Slavon ship on 8 March '92. the years from the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia has generously helped Bosnia and Herzegovina, from fuel, weapons, ammunition, etc. until I pass to say mujahedin and Wahhabi across the territory of the Republic of Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina without any problem, that she has taken care of hundreds of thousands of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And how come these people think that the Republic of Croatia is a thorn of an aggressor in Bosnia and Herzegovina? So we split the aggressor guilt with Serbia, actually making an aggressor to Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's not good, that's not good. Therefore, it cannot be said that members of the HVO were aggressors to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here we give them a pension. Well, that's funny, that's sad actually. It would be funny if it wasn't sad. And the mention of Ahmic as well, so the crime is individual, no one can apologize on behalf of the Republic of Croatia because the Croatian state did not have such an aggressor policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina but can only be apologized for individual cases for individual crimes. I'd have a lot more to say about this, 6 billion and 200 million, 300 million kuna is 5% of the budget of the Republic of Croatia for this purpose, and here I haven't arrived, but I'm bright red, and in those costs that we have around fighters, pensions, NOB fighters, etc. We'll talk about it another time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51891	Okay. Thank you. Minister Tomislav Ivić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here I would like to thank the club for the correct exposure. I would especially like to thank him, he is not here, Mr. Kotromanović, who correctly discussed and showed that this issue can be discussed without often unnecessary politicisation and that one can be discussed in a constructive and acceptable way. I'd also like to answer a few questions that have been asked through the club debate. First of all, I would say that this report in this year is nothing special compared to earlier reports, that it is one standard report, that earlier years were actually these reports because they were made in the same form with similar data. When we talk, and there has been a lot of talk about the register and this division, I think it is quite logical that there is both a combat and a non-combat sector in the register and that we have done this precisely to try to value this contribution in the Homeland War because, you will agree with me that it is not the same to be on the first line or to be on the logistics base 10 km or 20 km from the first line of the front line, and it is certainly the one who is in the logistics base in the function of the defence and has the right to have the status of a Croatian defender. So that's why this division was made into a combat and non-combating sector. The fact is that like Mr Grubisic, some of them were in the fighting sector for a while, while others were in the non-combat sector, which is quite logical. Of course we are unhappy that there has also been an increase in the number of unemployed Croatian defenders, but there are also the consequences of the crisis, a recession that affects our country. But I would like to say that the concern, and Mr. Kotromanovic was talking about making some list of the most vulnerable defenders, that this is being led by the Ministry, that the care of defenders cannot and should not only be the concern of the relevant Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but that should be the concern of the entire system, so the units of local and regional and regional self-government, in the extreme line and all of us as citizens. As for Mr. Cain, he said this whole series of inaccuracies that should really take time and time to elaborate. But one thing is absolutely certain, we know exactly how many people defended the state, or how many people participated in the Homeland War, and we published that information three years ago when the Croatian Defence Register was completed and it is known as the Government's position, which is why we are not interested in publishing the Croatian Defence Register. And it's not about any nervous, panicking or what Mr. Cain called a government response, but it's about a principled attitude that's been the same since the first day, and it's about the last discussions we've had. And the key that argument has always been was that there are legal regulations that prevent the publication of the register and until they change that the register cannot be published. And now I'm asking here how to edit Article 37. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which guarantees every citizen in this country the protection of his personal data. Shall we put in this article that the Constitution guarantees the protection of personal data to all but Croatian defenders. Is that a solution? Foreign governments say they have an insight into the register. Well, of course they don't. The Company for Property Management of the Croatian Defence Fund Ersta Invest was founded under Croatian laws, registered in Croatia. Who owns it is not the key question. In addition, Erste's investment has only a part of the data from the single register, which is data that does not refer to the war route. So there's no concern that there might be any manipulation of the data from the register on that basis. What Mrs. Hursa's distinguished parliamentary representative said, I don't know, ma'am, how you got the information that there were 20,000 pensions in 2003. It wasn't, it was a lot more. It was about 40 and between 40 and 50. I can't say right now. That number has been increased in the last six years, but not by 40,000, which would come from what you said. In 2003, it was about the same number of family pensions as it is now. As regards the publication of the register, no register of Croatian defenders has been published but one of the databases in the MRLs used for the production of the Croatian Defence Register has been published, and there has been no hacking into the information system or MOTH, nor the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, but it is simply that the data available in the MRLs or in the Ministry of Family and Defence and intergenerational solidarity, and the investigation will establish it as stolen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51893	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51894	Since there have been some doubts about the number of defence pensions. According to the 2003 law, there were around 20,000 personal pensions, meaning the pension of Croatian defenders while today there are 51,000. So the figure has increased from 20 to 51,000 or about 5,000 a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51895	An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51896	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In the beginning, I will say that as a Croatian defender and representative in the Croatian Parliament, I welcome and support the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2009, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered to the Croatian Assembly for discussion and adoption with the following arguments and for the following reasons. First of all, I welcome the exhaustion and transparency of this report, as one colleague has already said today, this report has both form and content. And we who know well those about which this report speaks know that there is a soul and that gives details of all the rights established by law with the number of users and the amount of funds that the Croatian state has allocated to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family most responsible for creating the independent and democratic Croatian state that we have today and in which we live. And when we talk about them to our colleagues and colleagues, let's not forget that we tell the most about ourselves. Let us not forget that for 13 years, because this 2009 report is 13 years after the end of the Homeland War we are still looking for, exhumating, identifying and burying the remains of Croatian defenders, so 17 of them were buried in 2009 and 1890 of them died, 254 of them with the status of Croatian military disableds, of which as many as 5 per cent of the second group and four hundred percent of the first group. I commend both the Croatian Government and the President of the Croatian Government, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor personally on the consistency and determination that in these difficult times of recession and economic crisis, the most sensitive groups of companies that, along with pensioners, births, children and defenders and members of their families do not reduce the scope of the law of established rights. And that thus confirms the amount of 6.3 billion kunas allocated for the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. And it seems to me no less important to welcome and the right time to submit this report, which testifies not only on respect for deadlines but also on continuous and up-to-date monitoring of all data in the restoring Croatian Ministry of Defence. When I say that the report was delivered at the right time, I think of the initiatives and demands that are increasingly loud and from the highest places in Croatia, and we heard in the debates here in the Croatian Parliament today about the need to publish a register of Croatian defenders despite all the legal reasons for the justification and secrecy of that document, which contains the warpath of every Croatian defender and despite the fact that no country in the world has published a list of its defenders. And just the data presented in this Report in Chapter 7 concerning the Croatian Defence Fund and the National War Register, which provides information on the schedule of Croatian defenders to the combat and non-combat sectors, and the schedule according to the publishers of certificates of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, so the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, on the number of defenders after the first entry into the Croatian Army units or the Ministry of Interior after the years of the 1990s. until 1996, where it is clear that just in 1991, the largest number of first entry of the defenders into these units was recorded and the number of days of participation in the Homeland War for all defenders in the register. I said that if I had the status of a Croatian defender, it was an honor, I had the privilege to participate in the Homeland War and I am honored to belong to that group today, the largest group of Croatian defenders who cost nothing, and which is why I refuse and in this debate... colleague Cain said the defenders are a burden in the system. [[You don't understand.]] The defenders cannot be a burden in the system, so they fought for the independence and independence of the democratic Croatian state. Why did I say this was the right time? So for all of these reasons that I have presented, and they are further listed in this report, most of the reasons why the advocates have published the registration instructions as the goal of fixing the situation in the defence population are due today... when colleagues in the name of clubs who have been particularly prominent in advocating the publication of registers, tones that have fallen a little off today, I'm sure they won't stop at that. [[You don't understand.]] It is not right to tell lies about Croatian defenders, because we know how sensitive they are and sensitised the social group, how it works on them. Kola Bilnjić also expressed what it means to reflect and reflect the publication and this illegal publication, I would not say the register as the minister said some work material that someone had used to redistribute Croatian defenders and challenge, i.e. to draw attention from other far more important topics in Croatian society and in the Croatian state. I am ashamed that they have repeated that they are seeking to separate the grain from the weeds, because it does not require the publication of the register, the ministry and the ministry, or the government in the report delivered clearly states and provides information that the audit is conducted all this time, data is given how many defenders have lost their status, and all interested also exist in the Ministry of Defence, and in the Ministry of the Interior, and if it is known that there is something that is not in accordance with the law, the competent institutions of the Croatian state can also apply, they will do their job. When I talk about the part of the unemployed, they are already mentioned, I welcome all the measures of the Croatian government that has given to the employment of Croatian defenders, however, this number of 24 thousand 375 defenders, that is, at the end of December 31st 2009 or 8.4% of the total population of the unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, if we look at the defenders in the age group, I have summed up two, the one from 45 to 50 and the one from 50 to 54, in that category there are 10 thousand 148 defenders in total 29.3% of them. I call on all leaders of units of local, regional self-government to comply with the provisions of the Law on Croatian Defence, to give them a chance to get a job. Croatian defenders are not privileged either, as the law made it clear that under the same conditions Croatian defenders have the advantage. I, of all things, support and once again commend the report on the exercise of rights, the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51897	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51898	Thank you, Mr. Chairman... You've already started shutting down. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] For what? As we start with these words, as we treat the Croatian state, its institutions, how much we develop the values of the democratic system, solidarity, justice, honesty, how much we fight crime and corruption in Croatian society, this is our attitude towards both the Homeland War and Croatian defenders. There is no need to convince each other here who loves Croatia more, it is simply not popular to quote the former prime minister who said about it, yet I will have to not allow anyone to love Croatia more than I do. Many of these words, that is, want to be forgotten, but that is so. And today, when we talk about this important topic for Croatians, not only Croatian defenders, but society as a whole, we need to leave our emotions aside, and read facts, try to read facts, all in good faith that if there is something bad in the system to fix it. At first, I'd just like to commend the report. It is correct, well, precisely done and if all those reports were compared in '97, '98, then 2000, 2001, 2002, and so far that would be an interesting reading. All that is written or what is not written, which is silenced, all that would say about the times behind us. Maybe the quality of this report and the speed that it came to, because it's April of the month, and we always sort of solved it for 5 or 6 or 7 months, maybe it contributed to it, which would be a new broom in the ministry, because every broom, a new broom, is a better target. But okay, let's just leave it. Let's get back to that thing. Ten years here in this place, maybe a little repositioned in these benches, but the basic thinking I kept, I'm saying we can spend as much as we earn. Most of the time, those words were wrinkled with their hands, ridiculed, said they were politicized, and I don't know what. Did I say in addition that it would hit us, such irrational behavior, like a boomerang in the head? And that boomerang came back nicely. And today it's interesting that as the whole state is talking about the crisis, about the economy that's in ruins, about the measures that the government and the prime minister who well created this system are trying to find solutions that the ship doesn't sink, we don't even mention the crisis here today. As if the crisis had not touched and this segment cares for Croatian defenders. For 10 years I've been talking about what a good system of care is, what certain countries in the world have, what we've copied from them, partly and changed, all in good faith. The good system is based on the quality of care of all the serious victims, the full care of the families of the dead and the fatalities in this case of Croatian defenders and the employment of all those who are able to work with all the measures applied, schooling, schooling, prequalification, etc., and at the same time with the health care of all the defenders. So we don't need veteran hospitals like in the U.S. because our healthcare system in that segment is more quality, or more comprehensive. And at the same time what, because all the states have faced the irregularities that we're facing, and they've all confessed and tried to solve it. And that also requires a control system, a quality control mechanism. Nothing more, nothing less. Of course, it's easy to say, it's a little harder to implement, but when we see that the funds we've now established and the trusts, the trusts, work successfully. And why are they working successfully? Because they have a control mechanism. The question arises, and then why didn't we apply it to everything else? Or why didn't we apply it back in the '90s when some other funds ended up, I dare say, in crime? How come it couldn't, and now it can? Cultivating consciousness, we're all more experienced, perhaps even more quality opposition. Things are gone, we have to admit, the good part is wrong. But now we're not overpowering who's to blame or why they're gone. Partly due to political circumstances, partly for good purposes, part of the purchase of the electoral body, partly for some other reasons. Now the fundamental question is what do you do to make the system sustainable? Because the system of care for Croatian defenders is unsustainable, and this is not me, it is the Croatian government itself. And now I'm going to try to convince you, and Mr. Chairman, when you look at me this well, as the Croatian government claims. And she claims it at least 3 ways, possibly more, but I've singled out 3. By redistributing, by amending the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and by third announcement of the reduction, especially some of the pension sector's funds. When we talk about caring for Croatian defenders, the recapitulation to do, 6.2 billion is spending this year. Something bigger than last year. 93% goes to pensions, 5 billion plus 800 million permanent rights. These are sort of default values that can't just be changed or popular to change. There's 400 million left, seven percent that can be applied to the other 15, 16, 20 rights. Of these 400 million, health insurance and housing are the highest. And then what did it look like? The peace is growing because the number of users is 5 grand higher than last year and this is so continuous and that 200 million has been redeployed from other rights. Among other health insurance from 190 was reduced to 131m in 2009 compared to 2008. And living care of 234 to 122 million, which is about 160 million kuna, plus certain corrections on other rights. And including the victims' associations that got a few million less. But it's a meaningless reduction. In all these other items, there's no more chance of a reduction. The second amendment to the law is, let us remember that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence has been amended in that segment that a provision of the 2001 Law is restored that only the Croatian Military Disabilities, meaning the defender with the established status of HRVI, can also achieve a defence pension. Why was that done? Because the number of demands has grown enormously, and the money is gone. And now that I don't owe too much, and number three, it's an announcement of a reduction in the pension sector again. Because whether you admit it or not 5 billion kunas with a trend of growth, further increasing the number of retired Croatian defenders, will be a problem for the ministry, or for the government. Now the question is, how is that going to happen? Whether one system solution, and there are several options that are again more or less unpopular, will either go into linear reduction as some neighbouring countries do that are also unable to implement a more comprehensive reform. So it's likely that there's going to be a few-foot reduction in those who have bigger or less pensions. I hope that reduction doesn't happen if I don't do it again. So let's try to find a comprehensive solution. This register and its publication, as it is said, can be published, but not for publication, but for one systematic solution to this system we call a care system for Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51899	Thank you. Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51900	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the report shows that in its essential parts it is well implemented, and in particular that the most effective rights to various forms of financial payments are exercised. I would actually look at this report that it has, shows both the good and the bad, as a video of the situation, with all of us, especially you from the ministry actually being able to do better to our defenders tomorrow. In fact, this serves to show everything that's been done, but I also hope that you in the ministry will respect all of our remarks that we make during our discussions. I'd just like to look at a few things inside the report. Here, for example. housing that is actually slowly realised. The reasons for such slow realization are of course and refers to this time we are in, the time of recession, the time of the crisis in which we live. But there are also other problems such as very complicated property-legal relations in certain parts, i.e. the adoption of a slow change in spatial plans, and, of course, an unequal economic force of local self-government units, because we know by the rights of defenders who are the duties of local self-government land or infrastructure. Therefore, I think that there should be an acceleration in the adoption of acts at all levels from the state to the municipalities that would actually speed up the procedure for resolving housing problems. Of course, the Ministry of Defence should point to these problems, but I must also express my satisfaction and good cooperation with both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Environment in terms of housing care. I would also refer to the health issue, namely the health report and psychosocial assistance. In fact, defenders and victims are direct victims, and we don't need to repeat that at all. However, we cannot forget those other indirect victims, and they are families. From the report of all those working on psycho-social aid defenders, they all point out that there are growing demands to help the family, or children of the victims of the Homeland War, or defender. We also know that Croatian defenders are more often ill and the overall mortality rate is unfortunately greater than the rest of the other population, especially suicides, of course because of psychotraumatic defenders. The defenders are the biggest problem that there is one difference in the world for which they fought and what they live and how they live. Therefore, I think that no matter what some say is a well-developed system of health care for the defenders, I don't think that's ever enough and should work as hard on it as possible. I must say that as deputy mayor that I have faced a series of requests for help, that defenders come to me very often for help for medicines that are not on the HZZO list also for help and orthopaedic aids and for help more than that standard that was actually provided. And I need here to actually be a local community, for example. Our city of Dubrovnik appears as a corrective and complete health care measure from the state level, although I do believe that the health care of the defence attorney must be the task of the state, so that we must be aware that some units of local self-government simply cannot help the defenders, because they have nothing to do with it. As far as he was concerned, he also mentioned the Center for Psychological Assistance today. It is visible from reports that there are only 16 employees and 131 employees. Therefore, it is evident from that part that this protection itself in terms of psychosocial assistance cannot be achieved on one level with such a small number of employees. Therefore, I think that the local community should also be corrective, so here in Dubrovnik we will have to point out again that we are in the formation of a defence centre where we will try with legal aid also to provide psychosocial assistance to our defenders. I'd also look back at defense organizations. I think there's irrational funding for a large number of associations. In order to go with public calls and thus finance programmes, not the very associations and ministries themselves should take steps to unite associations around similar programmes. And of course, with all the programs where we finance and here, it's a very necessary effective evaluation. As for the publication of the register, I actually belong to that group that is to publish the register. Namely, why the mystification. It would be good for the public to hear what's in the register, what kind of data. They're digging. But have we considered whether it is possible for the defenders themselves to decide whether or not, by a referendum. For example. We can send all the defenders out of the register so they can make an anonymous decision whether they're for publication or not. Let us stop deciding, for I am convinced that it is an honor for every right defender to declare his name to be a participant, that he was on the defender of the homeland. As far as employment is concerned, I would support cooperatives, that is, the Croatian Defence Cooperatives' Fair. I think we should work in the direction that cooperatives become both cooperatives and economic operators, because we know that employment is a problem and that 10% of defenders are among the unemployed of our citizens. The inclusion of defenders in society should be a goal, not a ghettoisation, that is, to view them as a special social category. Looking at them like that and working towards them, I think it should be a transitional period towards the main goal, which is social inclusion. The pension system was spoken of by a colleague in front of me. And she would also mention a colleague of Grubisic who said what I would say on behalf of the defender that no one should close their eyes to injustice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51901	Thank you. One correction, MP Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51902	Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to correct my colleague in one wrong quote, which is that we should transparently publish competitions to finance programs. So here, as you can see in each title, it says that the financing of projects, associations and programmes of associations at national level 41 and at local level, together with 107, means 148 total associations with programmes, with activities, cultural, sports, children's assistance, children's gathering, parents and all other programs that the associations submit to the ministry. Programs are evaluated, and no money is given to any association on ad hoc because it has so many members or so much sympathy from a minister or former minister, but by projects and programs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51903	And the replica, Madam Representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51904	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. So here I am, my colleague Šimac, agreeing to you in a segment of this report, in fact, when you say that units of local self-government should be involved in order to get the results as quickly and better in the housing of Croatian defenders who, in accordance with the Law on the status of Croatian defenders, exercise the right to this housing care. However, I do not wish to repeat all of what you have said, but the fact is equally that both the mayors or the mayors of the municipalities that are obliged to offer to the resolution ministry, in this case family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, infrastructure-equipped land so that this ministry may fulfil its obligation under the law. As with you, my colleague Šimac, I will not agree when you say that, that is your problem, but I do believe that the centres for psychosocial assistance, the county centres, which are also the founder of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, deliver excellent results and in coordination movements, I would say with the existing institutions of the system, that they are well equipped and staffed. As I would say, there is excellent cooperation within the existing centres and with crisis centres in the implementation of the national strategy, as well as in improving the quality of life of all members of the victims of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51905	Well, here's my colleague, I think I've been clear enough when I was talking about local self-government, that's when we talk about housing, what needs to be done by local self-government or what needs to be done by the ministry. And what you've repeated is clear because I said it in my discussion. And as for the county centres for psychosocial assistance, where, probably you speak from your experience, but even today in the discussions of other colleagues, I think a colleague from the HNS said that therapy should be adapted to needs, so she mentioned that the growing need for family therapy is actually increasing, which is unfortunately not being implemented in the centres of psychosocial assistance. Perhaps we should make better co-operation towards centres, family centers that are the same under the ministry, and perhaps we should join together to help both defenders and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51906	Mr. Representative Mato Biljić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. As far as I'm concerned, you have a +5 report, because really and transparently, for every commendation not only the report that's been written, but everything that's been done to the worthy defenders and the people who created the homeland. However, I would like to return a little among other things to certain figures and should be repeated perhaps all this year so as not to talk about some privileged 500 thousand defenders but that in the Republic of Croatia only disabled people who have established disability receive pensions. These are 51 thousand 752 users with an average pension of 5336 and use means family pensions of 12216 families with an average pension of 7748. So only these people have, the rest of them only have certain stakes in the fund. As many of us, unfortunately as if we have nothing in the Republic of Croatia, we have nothing better to do than talk about Croatian defenders from day to day than how privileged they are, and then you hear in the debates thank you defenders and then beat the defense attorneys, defenders and defenders again. Namely, I will move a little bit to the other side of the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I will show about these pensions, members of the Croatian Defence Council, in 2009 there were 5963 of them, 5537 with an average of 2808 kuna or family pensions of 426 with an average of 3578. The role of the Croatian Defence Council in Bosnia and Herzegovina was to defend, except for the defence of Croatian space and the front end of the defence of the Republic of Croatia, where the Croatian Defence Council was established, which had the support, there the aggressor failed to occupy the Republic of Croatia. And then we look at politicians both high and low and who doesn't dare list everything that the Republic of Croatia has committed aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina. Those who don't remember may remember '91. the year when members of the Yugoslav Army left Slovenia, part of Croatia, and came from Serbia, Montenegro and other places in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where aggression was committed against the Republic of Croatia, from the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and occupied Croatia from the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, indeed from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It means where the Croatian Council of Defense was not formed there they passed slowly as cheese because they had no resistance in that part. And if we're going to talk about these things, who was the one who committed the aggression, then let's remember who shot the cannons first, and after who got in the tanks and the infantry into this part. Why has it grown since year after year we have grown speaking as military commander, as a man who's had a lot of experience. Namely, you have people in '91, '92, '93. years wounded. They're demobilized. They went to do something. It's been 17 years. He was 40 at the time, now 57 years old and over. Because of these injuries, he can't work, he just can't work, the employer doesn't hold him anymore. He can't work in private, he can't work in any company. He had to look for something. He went to the disability commission, and I don't doubt them, and he did that part. It's the same when you talk about the non-combat sector, and then you talk about doctors. I'm sure a large part of the doctors, nurses, technicians and cleaning women who worked in Slavonski Brod. I'm talking about the boat because most I know or... in the parish, the Vinkovci in those places or in Čakovec where I was treated, in Dubrava where they watched every day they had to drink to people, wounded hands, legs, pull out their eye, broken faces, that they could also depend on a man how strong he could get PTSD. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of my great friends and my doctor who operated on me back in '92. The year he came to help out of Chakovec from a beautiful hospital they came to help out at the battlefield. And then one of my soldiers had to take two hands, forearms, and two legs. He's got PTSD. After 10 days, he couldn't recognize me. Yeah, yeah, not one. You know how many of those cases were there? So we can't say now that someone who was a doctor at the hospital can't get sick and that he's less valuable than I was with a gun at the front of the defense. I agree there's nothing to hide. The invalids that these 51,000 have, they've all been on ad boards in their counties or 90%. Everyone asked for some rights when it came to housing, improving conditions, and everyone was what happened. So they were already published. These others have no other rights. Here you can read today on the portals a man who was a defender, developed, no work, ten years working as a driver from the Grubish Polje for 10 years crossing the border, entering Serbia exits for Romania. He never has anything, nor is it on Interpol's warrant, nor is it on the list of exchanges between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia on the demand for war crimes. They found his information nice. Now you're going to be mine because you're a war criminal. Will it be another one of those people who are in transport through the Republic of Serbia tomorrow, whether it will now take Savo Strbac to write about all these people that have committed war crimes in their places? That's what you should be afraid of. It's not the problem of these 6 billion and 283 billion or 6.3 billion kuna. I think the defenders must have earned it. But if we're all calling and we're all talking except I've never said it except for individuals, not all individuals are talking, I know this, I know this. So tell me who it is. Markovic Marko lives in the address of this and he is a disabled person, so let him process himself. Mira Miric is there, so let's process. But let's stop talking once. We'll help. It's not helping Croatian defenders, they deserve it. Well, there's no army in the world that won't reward their homeland army. And it was also about the participants of the People's Liberation War today. I don't mind. I respect all those who were in '41. Were. But not the ones who turned their '45 hats. Year and '46. Forty-first two thousand and ten, that's 69 years. Did they all have 15 each? So the youngest participant should be 84 years old. Is there another one from '91? that he was 20 years old, that he was a minor. So you're supposed to be 90 now. That's what we need to talk about. I know it's on this list of 43,000, so that's what people told us. There are those who got a Partisan pension back in the '50s and in the '60s. So, I don't want to talk about them either. They are in the system and what I would tell all my colleagues, especially those who were in the war and on the first line and those in the background and in the kitchens and in all others, let us stop talking once about having privileges. If you know someone who's disabled, who's a guilty defender, but don't every time we discuss whether this one's better, if it's a better one. Everything the defenders get they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51908	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51909	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I join those who give full support to the ministry and who give full support to this report. I would say about a bit on the trail of what my colleague Biljic said was the following. Croatian defenders who did deserve absolutely every respect. Croatian people with disabilities from the Homeland War deserve absolute care. On the other hand, all the charges against false defenders, fake disabled people, I think it's up to them to be convicted and rejected in advance, so it's also such a phenomenon, but it's also such speech without arguments and evidence. When it comes to the relationship, therefore to the victims of the Homeland War, members of the Croatian Defence Council, as a man who comes from the 11th constituency, or from Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who at the time, so in the previous meeting of the Parliament, made the agreement that I would say covered pensions of the real, real victims of the Homeland War of the Croatian Defence Council. And this is one I mean simply was the debt of the Republic of Croatia but also significant support not only for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in general Bosnia and Herzegovina, such as any investment by the Republic of Croatia, significant support in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is a significant support to the entire state. Here today we can see here on the portals, among other things, the consequences of the state's inability to care for its own defenders. Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately compared to Croatia, stands significantly worse and then I don't know here I see that defenders in Sarajevo have had a direct conflict with the police, and because they were looking for justice, and apparently the state as such is not able to respond to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Fortunately and thank God that in Croatia, there is no such thing as Croatia actually systematically taking care of its defenders. On our Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia we also had this report. We gave him absolute support, and we touched a few questions about this issue. One is a model of Croatian defence cooperatives. We assess it with a very positive, very good and we are grateful to the representatives of the ministry, here present minister and secretary of state, also to you, because, among other things, we are holding a good contact with defence associations and with the Ministry of Defence in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we believe that it would be important, as a kind of export product of these defence cooperatives, to support defence associations and in space, in particular the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and now, above all, I am thinking of members of the Croatian Council of Defence who, on several occasions, have turned around and addressed how they would in some way establish communication with defence associations in Croatia and on the principle of mutual interest, therefore and cooperation, maintained both employment and certainly find the means of life. I would conclude my exposure to the testimony of one of my dear friends, a professor of Israeli general, otherwise a professor of public health, who, on the question of how, I don't know the state of Israel care for the defenders, and since there were a lot of inscriptions at the time who discriminated in a certain way, and about them very badly wrote about Croatia and more than today, and even today there are, then he told me the following in Israel all have equal rights, no one has any more or less rights. We all have equal rights, and defenders have privileges and that's not at all controversial. So, because we're so afraid to say that the defender, we're not afraid, we're even avoiding them, we're visiting them, and in a way we're explaining that the defenders who created the state, who gave parts of the body and the health, have the State's compensation, we call them a privilege, why don't we have the privileges, so they deserve it. One more thing, although I have already looked back on it, Bosnia and Herzegovina has been the victim of aggression, major Serb aggression, the consequences of this aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina have been difficult for everyone. In this context, the previous discussions that were held here in Parliament, although not subject, should also be considered, I am probably outside the subject, but I refer to these discussions that were actually spoken here and in the context of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina's relations during the war. I repeat what I have already said, because I am a witness and a participant of that time, that there was no Croatia, that there was no support from Croatia, and humanitarian and every other, material, even military and military, because all the help in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when I talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I think first of all about Croats and Muslim Bosniaks, so because they had neither military nor weapons, nor any kind of logistics, while the other side through the Yugoslav People's Army knew everything, it all came through Croatia, either sea or land, either way, but only through Croatia. If it hadn't been for Croatia and for the support of the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina would not have survived, and therefore let us not allow any kind of politics that will actually harm defenders here and defenders in Bosnia and Herzegovina... both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[You don't understand.]] Although it is also not the subject of this report, but I also welcome your efforts and efforts by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to lead with a prime minister who now and at this meeting in Brussels and with President Obama has shown support for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to join NATO and which is shown before the Government of the Republic of Croatia because stability of the environment is very important, and a stable environment is in fact I would say a priority and a prerequisite for both a good and a safe life and a promotion of standards, and without the involvement of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Euro-Atlantic integration there will be no stability in that area, and this is not good for Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51910	Thank you. Final review, Minister Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank all those who participated in the debate. I think that in the most part of the debate was indeed very correct, well-intentioned and thank you for that, and as I said in the introduction, I think that this subject can be debated without any politicalization, constructively and with best intentions. Just a few things. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Pancic, but I want to tell him I don't use any broom in the ministry, not in any other way than I did in the last meeting where I was a secretary of state and I'm just continuing the successful path my predecessor set foot in. A good part of the debate was whether or not to publish the defence register. I don't want to spread it anymore, but I would say here in this final word is one serious reason, one of the MPs mentioned it, why I am holding and personally that the register of Croatian defenders should not be published, is this official note that I have from the Embassy of the Republic of Serbia, and this case mentioned in the last days of the arrest of Croatian citizen Veljak Marić for alleged crime in the Republic of Croatia, so not in Serbia or in BiH, but in the Republic of Croatia, I say a crime that was on the contract of action driving a truck of a Croatian craftsman and who had at least 10 times walked through the route through Serbia to Bulgaria and returned to that route in Croatia, of course, and had never had a problem until the moment until the Croatian defender's register was published. And here in this official note from the ministry it is said, among other things, that the same route has entered and exited Serbia and Serbia on several occasions, it is concluded that the controversial publication of data on Croatian defenders contributed to this arrest. Or the case of a Croatian defender who married and lives in Banja Luka who called the Director of the State Agency for the Protection of Personal Data the moment he was published. The register on the Internet does not simply know what it does and begs and begs it, and you could also read it in a conversation with the director in "Free Dalmatia" that no information about Croatian defenders is published, because he is not sure if he is going to get out alive. If that works for him, there's no survival in that environment. So we must also take care of such purely practical reasons and not question the fate of any of those 501 thousand 666 in the register of Croatian defenders. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51912	Thank you. I close the debate, interrupt the session, resume tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the draft humanitarian aid law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-21-0.u51913	We are passing, eighth, a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 01 January to 31 December 2009. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the conclusion that the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from January 1st to December 31st 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 110 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we will proceed with the session. And we move to the agenda point - the draft humanitarian aid law, first reading, P.Z. No. 525. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the Act's proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care, and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mrs. Dorica Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, please welcome.
