ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50869	We are now going to the point - The report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2009 is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 5. The humanitarian demining law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Interior Ministry State Secretary Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50870	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the council. The Annual Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2009. The initial basis for the development of the plan was established mine suspected space on 1 January 2009 of 954,5 km2 and the planned funding amounting to 370 million 226 thousand 811 kuna, of which 318 million were to be spent on demining operations. The humanitarian demining business has removed mine danger from the area of 37 million 869 thousand 420 m2, and 37 km2. The implementation of the general reconnaissance reduced mine suspected space by 24 million 708 thousand m2 which resulted in a reduction in mine suspected space in 2009 by 62 million 578 thousand m2. By 31.12.2009, the Croatian Mine Action Centre also established areas exclusively polluted with unexploded means of killing of 4 million 267 thousand 489 m2. Of the total demining transactions agreed in 2009 28.5% refers to safety priorities, 67.4% are related to socioeconomic development and 4.1% to environmental priorities, respectively, according to the area structure. The most demining agricultural areas are 54%, then the forest 12%, the gardens of populated houses 7%, infrastructure facilities 5%, tourist destinations, primarily national parks and nature parks 4% and other unclassified areas, the vast majority has re-creasing the area along the 18% border. In 2009, 8671 anti-walking and anti-arming mines and 1186 non-exploded killings were found and destroyed. Out of the total agreed and realised funds for demining works in 2009, as well as previous years, the biggest source of funding was the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, which participated in financing with 62% of the total planned and realised funds. Legal persons or investors participated in the investment and demining of 16%, out of which 70% of them are on the Croatian Forest Company. The donations took part with 14%, while the World Bank loan for a project of social and economic recovery, the area of special state care participated with 8%. Of the planned 318 million kunas, 318 million 199 thousand were achieved, which is 100% of the planned funds. The average price of all demining transactions in 2009 was 8.18 kuna per m2 without VAT, which is an increase of 5.1% compared to 2008. On 31 December 2009, the mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia was marked with 16 thousand 27 mine-hazard codes, and in 2009, 6 mine incidents occurred in which 7 people died, of which 4 died. This brief report, or explanation, shows that the 2009 plan, which was adopted in 2008, was fully realised in 2009 in a 100% amount, thus further clearing Croatia from mines by 37 square kilometers, i.e. with these other activities reducing mine suspected space for a total of 62 square kilometers, all in line with the planned activities and plan to remove mine risk in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50871	Thank you. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative's club, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50872	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, Mr. Director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a mine problem, unfortunately, in Croatia there is still a major problem, although it has been a long time since the end of the Homeland War, it is still a significant problem in the economy, but also a security and environmental problem, and the obstacle is still normal and life and the development of the Republic of Croatia. The report shows that on 1 January 2009, the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia was 954,5 km square, that provided financial resources, as the Secretary of State said, amounting to 370,2 million kuna, of which 318 million kuna should have gone to demining operations. In the mine environment, we often forget about it in the past year, there were a little less than 800,000 inhabitants, almost a fifth of the population of the Republic of Croatia, in 12 Croatian counties and 104 units of local self-government. More than 10,000 different mine-gones were defined, and more than 16 thousand markings warned of danger. Out of the total mine suspected area, nearly two-thirds were forests and agricultural areas. Since 1991, in a thousand 325 mine incidents, a thousand 921 people have been killed, and 501 people die with serious physical injuries almost a thousand and 100 people. A total of 69 children were killed, of which 12 were fatal to 18 years of age. Outside the mine suspected area, 65 children have been killed, mainly by unexploded means of murder, and 10 of them died. Both civilians and pyrotechnics suffered, 196 pyrotechnics died. But here we go back to the report. The mission of the plan in 2009 was to remove mine danger from the 37.4 km square area, and this area was determined depending on the resources available to the Croatian Mine Action Centre. The next task was to maintain the mark of the entire mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia, but also to coordinate activities and education and help mine victims, and to strengthen international cooperation. Let's see what's done and how much. Here is a report showing that, through 213 search and demining projects over the past year, a mine threat has been removed from the 37.8 km square area, and a general reconnaissance designed to update mine suspected space and produce project documentation has been additionally mine suspected space reduced by almost 25 km of square meters, so over the past year mine suspected space has been reduced by a total of 62.5 km of square meters. The analysis of the report also noted that the threat was completely removed from the area I would say the final cities of Biograd at sea and Zadar and Slunja also, then the municipality of Erdut and Vojnic. The demining of the total mine suspected space and national park Krka has been completed. From the structure of the explored and demining surfaces, we see that agricultural areas had a significant share, even 53.6% of total demining areas, followed by tourist destinations, infrastructure facilities, gardens, protected areas, but also future business areas. A large percentage of the surfaces worked is related to safety priorities in the first row, then socioeconomic development, and as regards agricultural areas and business areas, but also to environmental projects such as Jasenica wind power plants. The report also shows that the capacities involved in demining in the past year are very important, that these are 28 authorised persons, 27 commercial and one NGO, 632 pyrotechnicians, 56 machines, and 34 dogs. The survey was conducted by 12 pyrotechnic overseers and 27 pyrotechnic overseers. We at the Croatian Democratic Community club hold that there is a need to strengthen the quality of the work because the number of repetitive work reports, although in the last year only 16 were under quotes, and 3 after demining, indeed points to seriousness, and the report also shows that the number of mines removed and mine explosives indicates additional importance about the need for enhanced expert supervision during demining. The number of mines removed in the past year is significantly higher than in the years before. As far as funding is concerned, it is the year again with the most secured funds from the state budget 62%, the donations are 14%, the World Bank loan here I am glad that it is completed and it is completely spent. Here I am and from this place I want to thank everyone, especially those who help demining the territory of Zadar County, because I come from there and that I have devoted a great deal of my time to this particular area. So Zadar County is one of the highest, or county with the most injured in the Republic of Croatia 285 people were killed, of which 100 were fatal. I would especially like to thank the Kingdom of Norway here, which has invested 110 million kunas through an NGO in the demining of the Republic of Croatia, and then to the Government of the United States of America, Italy, Germany, the Principality of Monaco and the European Union. The demining price, as the secretary of state said, was the average demining price, in the past year was 8.18 kuna per metre square and it slightly increased compared to the previous year. For many years, however, there was a trend in the reduction of mine victims in 2009, the same number of accidents as in 2008, so in 6 mine incidents seven people were killed, and precisely these data confirm that the mine problem in the Republic of Croatia and still exists. It also confirms the fact that civilians and pyrotechnics suffer. I'll just remind you it's been since '91. by 2010, so in 124 accidents, 196 pyrotechnics were killed in their work, 57 of which were fatal. Only, colleagues and colleagues, in 2006, she was without harming the pyrotechnics. And the latest loss was early this year in January in the Zadar County area when a pyrotechnic from Požega, the late Renato Polic Strinic, died in the Zadar County area, and a year before that, the pyrotechnician of Zadar County died in the Sisak-Moslavina County area. Here, from this place and on behalf of the HDZ club, I want to thank all domestic and foreign donors who have helped mine victims in the Republic of Croatia in any way. I would like to commend, here in the report it is evident that the brochure that I had seen was also made, I would like to commend the meaning of making a brochure containing all the laws and regulations that regulate the rights of the victims of mines and their families. I would also like to commend the CROMAC web portal that enables insight into the mine situation of a large number of subjects and thus prevents the number of mine victims from being killed. The HDZ Club supports the report on the implementation of humanitarian demining and spent financial resources for 2009. Here are some suggestions or recommendations for the identification of mine suspected space to be carried out as responsible, more professional and quality as it is the basis on which all demining plans of the local and regional self-government unit are based. And colleagues and colleagues, that's exactly what efficiency depends on, but also the justification for spending both the state budget and the donation. Then, in order to ensure the safety of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and here they are, I said almost a fifth of the population, they continue to maintain tags that warn about the danger of mines, and those who do not respect them or even destroy them call on them not to do so because they threaten the lives of others. No matter what they remove, whatever they destroy, insist on continuing the marking. There's still room for a raised percentage of donations and domestic and foreign ones, which so far amounted to slightly less than 500 million kuna, meaning from the existence of CROMAC, meaning '98. years, but I think models applied by Zadar County should also be used. So, models of increasing funds for inclusion in one project and units of local self-government, regional self-government, foreign donors, European funds, as well as all other funds available to us. We expect that the implementation of the strategy, i.e. the new National Mine Action Programme by 2019, means which Parliament brought last year, together with the county coordinators and with the consent of local and regional self-government units, will be carried out in accordance with the defined strategic provisions. Use the maximum capacity we have because we know that their capabilities are higher. But it's up to all of us to warn about it, but the main reason is the asset insurance. We have the capacity, so we use the capacity as much as we have the resources. But perhaps we should better position and promote the Croatian mine action system in the world. We have domestic capacity, we have machines, we have knowledge, we have technology. So, in front of the pyrotechnics, there's still less than 887 km of square mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia. Here, I want them from this place to do it without additional casualties, without any casualties. It means no more pyrotechnics in the mine fields of the Republic of Croatia are affected. And since this report comes here in April, that on April 4th, the International Day of Consciousness, the danger of mines, declared by the UN General Assembly, is marked for the fifth year in Croatia, I would also like to warn from respecting the signs of mine danger, not to remove the markings, to leave demining to experts and that we are all aware of the dangers of mines that, even after the implementation of the mine action plan, will continue for an even longer period of years. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50873	Thank you. The HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50874	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director of the Mine Action Centre. Overall, looking at the mine action in 2009 is in line with the humanitarian demining plan and the basic tasks of the 2009 plan in realising and implementing the same best years so far. Compared to 2008, the increase in the demining area is 20 km square. So one quarter more. From the overall achievement in 2009, it is necessary to point out that the mine threat has been completely removed from the areas of the cities of Biograd n/m and Zadar in Zadar County and Slunja in Karlovac County as well as the municipalities of Erdut in Osijek-Baranja County and Vojnić in Karlovac County. The total mine suspected area of Krka National Park was also demined in 2009. The plan was achieved with 101.13%, and the community was returned to use by demining and searching the area of 37.87 km square km, resulting from the work of Croatian companies. Regular audit activities in establishing a clear and precise border of mine suspected polygons through the criteria of certain standard operational procedures, the mine suspected space was reduced by a general survey of 24.7 km square km resulting from regular CROMAC activities. In the end, the community was returned to use 62.6 km square. A positive fact can also be considered a realisation with a share of 53.6% of the agricultural areas of the first order, which certainly contributed to the withdrawal of the World Bank's loan. In 2009, as previous with the smallest number of mine incidents so far. Six incidents involving seven victims we regret and their families are our condolences, which is four civilians and three pyrotechnics. The suffering of pyrotechnicians took place in the area of the town of Petrinja, whose Kotor forest is known as the most difficult place for minimality and configuration and vegetation in the area. The town of Petrinja has the largest number of anti-walking mines compared to anti-aircraft mines and the size of mine suspected surfaces. And we believe this year the city of Petrinja will be a priority in demining. Comparing this data with the number of road casualties, spring crossings, crashes and other incidents, we can argue that all programmes and educations of many associations and institutions in which the role of the Croatian Mine Action Centre has been co-ordinated contributed to the reduction of mine incidents as planned and drawn up. Furthermore, the interactive relationship with a large number of subjects in the general survey process has also contributed to this, as well as special concerns about the setting of mine risk codes, which are more than 16 thousand in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and of course they are constantly being renewed. A constant warning to keep mine tags and requests not to alienate seems to be all that citizens are responsible and respect the rights of others. The media certainly contributed to this, whether they recognized the importance of warning and writing about the mine problem or interacting with CROMAC in media campaigns during the year. We consider the very successful and positive provision of information to a large number of users, as indicated in the report itself. The situation of mine danger markings is one of the fundamental elements of the information system on mining, shown on the maps of the minima that have been delivered to state administration bodies, local and regional self-government units, police administrations and other legal and physical persons. Almost a thousand maps of A0, several thousand different maps for special locations and maps were made on the included and excluded in mine suspected space. 2009 marks the opening and use of a series of CROMAC portals of a unique web application available to all users in the country and the world, where it is possible to see an up-to-date state of mine suspected space and its marking. The application was used in 2009 by dozens of thousands of people, including a large number of foreigners in the tourist season. The withdrawal of the World Bank loan of 7283 HR produced good results in 2009. It allowed the demining of first row agricultural land on rounded surfaces and its full withdrawal and execution. All priorities of public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia are settled within the deadlines set for which financial resources are provided. Positively, we consider good preparation for the upcoming tourist season, by checking all mine risk markings and their renewal, and in particular the removal of the mine danger of the caste and other ammunition with a number of locations in the counties of the southern part of the Republic of Croatia. Although we record positive results here and see that some proposals from the HSS Club are respected, we would be most fortunate if all areas of interest to tourists were demined as soon as possible. In the area of international co-operation, good shifts have been made, primarily the establishment of clusters in humanitarian demining involving Croatian companies. Of course there are Croatian Mine Action Centre and Center for Testing, Development and Training. The aim is to include Croatian knowledge to help the wider anti-mining community but also to provide economic cooperation with different countries affected by mine problems. By holding meetings such as the meeting in Sibenik of directors of world mine action centres, Croatia is classified in the order of the country with the best organised anti-mining system. It is total from the establishment of the Croatian Mine Action Centre to 31. 12. In 2009, invested in demining $3.1 billion. The state budget was higher year by year and increased from an initial of 83 million kuna in 1998 to 196 million kuna in 2009. The last two years are in 2002 with the biggest investment in demining operations. The average price of all demining transactions in 2009 was 8.18 kuna per metre square metre without VAT, which is an increase of 5.1% compared to 2008. However, I would like to reiterate here that human life has no price, and therefore more funds for demining should be provided, mainly under the pre-accession and structural funds of the European Union in which demining would be a component included in the development programmes for which demining is a prerequisite. This is also important because of the obligation and extension of the Ottawa Convention but, above all, for security, economic reasons and environmental protection. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the 2009 Implementation Report on the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50875	Thank you. HNS representative club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50876	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. The implementation of the humanitarian demining plan in 2009 has resulted in over 4 areas and 213 projects. In the first area, a mine threat was removed from an area of about 37.9 square kilometers, reduced mine suspected space by about 24.7 square kilometers, a total of 62.6 kilometers [62.6 km] of less mine suspected space. The government of the Republic of Croatia announced that Croatia will be cleared of mines in 2019. If we continue at this pace, and the report speaks of a successful year, the plan will certainly not be realised. The math says we need at least 15 more years, including in 2009 to take 954 kilometers of suspected mine space, and in the situation that all this mine space is covered by mines, we'll need at least 25 more years to free it. The second area also identified areas exclusively polluted by non-exploded means of killing of approximately 4.3 square kilometres. In the third area, activities in the field of mine threat education and mine victims were coordinated. And the fourth area covered international co-operation. According to the structure of the demining business, it seemed as follows. 53.6% of the area accounted for agricultural areas. The second priority was demining forest areas, and the third priority was the gardens of populated houses, removing mine danger over 2.6 km2. In 2009 demining operations were carried out by 28 authorised legal entities, with 3395 anti-walking mines, 5276 anti-arming mines and 1186 pieces of unexploded killing funds being found and destroyed. The report further says that the mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia has been marked with more than 16 thousand mine codes, and the areas polluted exclusively by unexploded means of murder have been marked with 283 hazard codes. Education on mine dangers in 2009 went through a series of stands, radio shows, web portals, posters, flyers, films, theatre performances. All these activities we at the HNS Club welcome and we want them to persist. Last year, there were six mine accidents involving 7 people, three of whom were pyrotechnics. So in 2009, the same number of mine accidents and injuries as the previous year were recorded, which is certainly not good. What should be the next sequence in our report? A more detailed explanation of why death was suffered and what should be done to ensure that such suffering does not occur in the future. The report further discusses mine victims and the activities undertaken in the area. In the area of strengthening international co-operation, intensive co-operation with 8 countries is being discussed. A co-operation agreement has been signed with 4 countries and an agreement has been drawn up with the two countries and signing is expected. The report says that professional surveillance was carried out in 106 activities where in 16 cases unquality work was found. The sources of financing in 2009 for the demining business were 62% of the state budget, 16% gave legal persons most of which were waste in the Croatian forest, 14% were donations and 8% was the World Bank loan. Let me just say a few words about donations. The report shows that in 2009, donations amounted to around 44 million kuna, which was about the 2009 plan, but this shows 15% less funds compared to 2008. The next data suggests that only 6% of domestic donors are in total donations. We understand that the causes lie in one part of the world and this domestic crisis of ours. We are aware that what will be less than a metre or a mile to demining will weaken the donor's interest. All these causes give new tasks and call for greater engagement and for our diplomacy and for all individuals who must find the necessary means to support the continuation and completion of such an important job. The report further discusses the average demining price in 2009. Here are my predecessors mentioned, it's 8.18 kuna per m2 without VAT and it's said to be an increase of 5.1% compared to 2008. We at the HNS are asking questions, which is the lowest exemplified price in the last year and for which areas and locations. The second question, which the government has taken, is that the dumping prices resulting in questionable safety of the work of pyrotechnicians and the questionable quality of the work done. How is it possible that the average price of 8.18 kuna per m2 is almost equal or lower than the cost of bone grass? From the report from municipal companies, we can find data that the price per m2 is from 7 to 10 kuna. Or because of the illustration, the price of washing square tunnels on the highway is paid from 50 to 60 kuna. I think it's too much to compare the working conditions in these areas. Or, for the illustration, the price per square in the abroad is moving about 10 dollars per square. The area also mentioned in the report is an area that is not satisfactory for realisation, and it is an area related to the demining of military facilities. The report also sets out the reasons and suggestions for how to solve problems in this area. We support those suggestions. Finally, members and members of the Croatian People's Party Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50877	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50878	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Gentlemen, representatives of CROMAC and the Ministry. Let me say a few words about this 10th one, and I think we'll tell the 12th year of existence about the work of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. I would say that, in some ways, in these 10 years, the actual level of our observations on these reports that, as much as my memory serves, has always been accepted as good, correct, transparent and which have shown that in the field of mine action Croatia has probably reached one of the highest levels in solving these problems in the world, and that to the extent that our organisational knowledge and experience of business directly related to the mine problem, and not the demining business itself, we have led to a measure that we can in some way subport, help other countries in the world that have a mine problem, and perhaps in the future we can use this very knowledge and experience as our own export product of Croatia. It is also a constant of these reports, these remarks on these reports, and the continuing reality of calling for greater concerns and responsibilities of the state, as well as the allocation of more resources from the state budget itself, but also other possible sources of funding, so that the mine problem in Croatia can be resolved as soon as possible. I remember in 2002, when I took over the center, the advice of the chairmanship of the Mine Action Centre that we were still dealing with some thousand and 300 square kilometers of mine suspected space. In these 10 years, here's the report we have now in front of us shows that this mine suspected space has fallen below 200km somewhere, under a little less than 900km, but from this perspective because it shows that if at the same pace continues to demining Croatia, then it will take at least twice as long if a third is only now solved, then it will take us at least twice as long as we've spent, it means a minimum of 20, if not 25 years for Croatia to completely free these great dangers, these insidious murderers who are lurking at our fellow citizens in all those parts, in 12 counties that we still seem to be in Croatia, encountering a mine problem. This report shows a few things that are positive. It is positive that all planned, all planned funds are indeed and implemented, so there were no serious disturbances in the financing of different sectors, that this did not affect the area of financing demining operations, and even when it comes to the largest source of income, it is the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The one where we've recorded a permanent submergement is donations, but I'll say a few words about it later. It also seems to me that a good balance has been set up when it comes to the territorial distribution of demining operations across all our counties, the truth and the amount of demining space vary from one to seven, because last year the Osijek-Baranja County with 9 and a half million square meters far ahead of other counties, as well as Vukovar-Srijem, but when it looks at the structure of the space that was demining, and the word is too heavy in that part of the orans that are somewhat less demanding to say about demining from some other parts, then it can be understood that greater representation of these counties in demining areas. I would especially single out something that makes people happy for 20 years who have not been able to access their homes and especially draw attention to the areas of the gardens and inhabited houses that have created a huge problem for life and for the return of people to their homes in some parts of Croatia whose names still sound and remind of the times of war, because they were on the front line, the first line of the battlefield, I am glad that the village of Sunja is now deprived of mine dangers, it is indeed a great holiday for all Sunja residents, but it is good to see that both Kusonia and Spain are in the town of Pakrac, which is located in the very, almost heart of the city or very close, it is not very close to me, but it seems to me that this is very close, solved, as the villages in which are expected a great return, mentioning Glinska Poljana, Slana, etc. and in other parts of Croatia, of course. I would say that it seems to me that some kind of and now an already stalking form of demining business assignment has been established to me and that these 29 companies are probably, in accordance with their capacities and their capabilities, participating and I don't have, or we didn't at least as a public, have information that there are any problems related to the assignment of these demining jobs. It is also good that Croatian companies that have not given up their participation in the sharing of demining costs, especially mentioning Croatian waters which have also invested significant funds in this year, and especially Croatian forests, which make up 35.36 million kuna, have a significant share in the participation of these total demining funds in the Republic of Croatia. We often talk about this, but it is not bad, at least when it comes to discussing this report to remind that, past or beyond the public's eyes, there is a whole network of activities that are being initiated by the Croatian Mine Action Centre, which is about solving mine victims' problems, education of children in mined areas, education from the dangers of mines that can be shown here, which is measured for decades of activity as well as great importance, the great importance that the CROMAC gives to the identification of mine suspected space, which seems to me to be in a situation with limited resources really the best form of prevention of possible fatal outcomes and wounding. There's one question, maybe it's just a coincidence, maybe it's a coincidence, but I'm worried that out of 7 total victims, there's even 5 in the Sisak-Moslavina County area. I primarily think of the city of Petrinja, 4 in Petrinja, 1 in Sisak, 1 in Osijek, 1 in Plitivska Lakes. Isn't that perhaps a signal to you in CROMAC to give priority to those areas where there is obviously a higher concentration of people, where there is a higher, as I would say, danger of people getting hurt so that this is also considered in planning. If the Kotor forest is a problem and is affected, then the Kotor forest should be put into some priority because it is really between the two cities, in a densely populated area between Sisak and Petrinja. And that space needs to be freed as soon as possible because human life really doesn't have a price. Seven incidents are exactly at the level of what we had last year. Thank God, it's a long way from that time from the late '90s when we counted mine victims for dozens, 90, 80, 70, etc. We're a long way from that, but it's hard to bear, it's hard to bear the news that even today, 20 years or 15 years after the war, people still suffer from mines, run out of body parts or no life. That's really, I'd say, extremely frustrating for all of us. And now something that was particularly surprising to me, and I would be inclined to believe that it was simply an oversight of the Ministry of Finance, not a conscious error. In fact, here every year we have called and advocated as stable funding as possible. I am already somewhat boring myself with my proposals and requirements to ensure a stable source of funding in terms of determining a percentage of 0.4% of the state budget to be determined for demining and guaranteeing that these funds and planning will be able to ensure the continuity of work and companies, etc. This security would mean a lot throughout this business, and it would certainly help both quality and faster demining of Croatia. So here in the Parliament we often heard and it is a general place that demining is the first-class interest of the Republic of Croatia which was seriously questioned last year. Well, I'll tell you what it's about. Last year, I think it was the 7th or 9th month, I don't remember, the Value Added Tax Act has been amended, except for the countries with which Croatia has a contract, and when we look at donor countries, about Germany, America and Sweden, all other donations have been excluded from that group of donations that are not paid VAT. And now we're in an absurd situation. It is an absurd situation that this year since 01.01.2010, by amending Article. paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The VAT law which has ceased to apply the VAT exemption for the delivery of goods and services to abroad other than oil, petroleum products, tobacco and tobacco products, alcohol and alcoholic beverages, etc. shall therefore be released, so ceases to be exempt from VAT payment for all these purposes and for all those institutions. In other words, in particular this year in which, in 2009, there were 15% less foreign donations than in 2008. And that, unfortunately, is likely as time moves on continues to be a trend. This year by paying 23% of VAT, for example. only on the donations of the Government of Japan and the donation of the Principality of Monaco of 114 thousand 163 euros, so on that donation CROMAC must pay, not from those funds donated but from its budgets this amount could demining 115 thousand square meters. As a result, the SDP Club will propose, in addition to this report, that this article in the VAT Act be changed urgently, that it should be changed urgently because I believe that it was a mistake and that there was no proposal to disable it or detimise donations to Croatia for demining.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50879	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. ... There's no replica on the club. ... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] What did you write? [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Just one moment. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm going to correct the incorrect assumption where my colleague said that the settlements of Kusen and Spain are located in the very center of the town of Pakrac, which is very close. Not exactly, they are located 2 to 8 km away from the town of Pakrac on the state road towards Požega and last year a lot of agricultural areas were demined precisely in these settlements. However, it is well mentioned here that demining was moved from the center of the town of Pakrac, i.e. finished. And to remind you that mine suspected areas and minefields were beside the very fence of children's kindergartens in Pakrac, along with the hospital in Pakrac and with great efforts and significant resources of the state budget is an increasingly larger area than mines in our city. And I hope we can pull even bigger funds together from pre-accession funds and rapidly demining the remaining 55 square kilometers in the area of the town of Pakrac mine suspected areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50881	Here you go, buddy Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50882	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Jungwirth. The other morning we saw you on "Good Morning Croatia" and we already got some information from you, but in any case, I applied for this kind of material, because it's really a topic that someone said was of first-rate interest to the Republic of Croatia. It is evident that over 800, so close to 900 square kilometers of the Republic of Croatia, is a mine suspected area or is polluted by mines. When we take the total area of the Republic of Croatia then it is still close to 2% of the total surface area of the Republic of Croatia. And indeed, the first-class interest is given the number of mine victims, this human side over the past period, and here is the number of victims, injured, badly injured or killed in the last year, which was according to this report that was attached here. It is interesting, then, when I mention this report on the number of victims in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, that this is indeed what my colleague Vidovic said in the area of Petrinja of a total of 7 victims that it is 4 and one in the Sisak area of five. One was seriously injured in the area of Osijek, and one was fatally injured in the area of Plitvice Lakes. Unfortunately, this black balance continues, after all, it is a job that is very risky, very responsible. And then when we take this price, the average demining price of 8.18 kuna per square metre, then we really think of different prices of different other services that are paid or that are affected by various procurements and types of procurement in the Republic of Croatia in local administrations, regional self-governments that are indeed, and then when we compare it, then really this demining price per square metre is really not going to say a bit funny. In one town in Slavonia, one ambrosia was paid half a kuna of ambrosia, a stem of ambrosia. So then when you see that for 16 ambrosias you get as much kuna as one square meter of demining surface, then that's funny. Especially when considering those other comparisons with tunnel painting, which all Croats want only one thing, they want to paint tunnels, according to our Vienna boy in Slavonia. So I wonder, I wonder how much is in correlation, how much is the demining area of 8.18 kuna per square metre relative to the quality of work and the third component, which is the safety of the employees. It is clear that when there are 29 companies that participate in the demining that received their part of the job at the Croatian Mine Action Centre, according to the share written on page 15, so I asked a little bit about this share and the relationship between individual companies. I've even been informed that some data on the demining and search surface are not exactly listed here. I'm not going to speak the company's name now, although I can say it later, so those 29 companies that were called here, they wrote a planned demining compared to the 100% last year. But when we look at tables that talk about demining surfaces of mine suspected areas around the county, then we see some differences. I don't want to share and compare the areas of the county, etc. but it is evident that in Brod-Posavina County there is one incursion of around 11.5%. So the realization is 88.5% for Brod-Posavina County. When we read the explanation about this, because we know that Brod-Posavina County also belongs to one of the highly polluted counties of mine-explosive means, especially in the municipality of Dragalić, in the settlements of Gorica, then Gornji Bogicevci, then... in the municipality of Okucani and the forest of Prašnik in the municipality of Stara Gradiška. And then in that explanation, which is why the reduction planned for 2009 says exactly that the implementation of the plan has been reduced due to the projected surface. Here I'm going to ask you to tell me who's responsible for not designing the area planned for Brod-Posavina County in 2010. Is this the Croatian Mine Action Centre or is it a local and regional self-government that was likely to carry out a projection that needs to be demined. The Ship-Posavia County of 37 square kilometers demining, I would not talk about millions of square meters, because it is really hard to talk about millions of square meters of demining surface. I think it's more convenient to talk in square kilometers. So, for the last year as it says here, it was demined and returned to the use of 37 square kilometers, of which the Brod-Posavina County has to say participates at 1,12 square kilometers. So 37 square kilometers, just 1.12 km of square waste in Brod-Posavina County. Furthermore, in any case, it is commendable, and I would not look somewhat jealous of the surfaces which, as well as the 2009 executive plan in Vukovar-Srijem County where the plan was transferred to say by antiquity 157% and also in Sibenik-Knin County with 122%, here is Osijek-Baranja 111%, 70. When it comes to financing demining and this one, so when we take the scale of financing demining and the number of demining number of km2 or million m2 of demining surfaces, then I'm really afraid that in 2019, which is drawn as the year in which Croatia will be cleared from mines, it will not be our reach, although we would all like it, even if it is still our future 9 years to really end that Croatia can be declared a country safe from mines and mine-explosive means. Someone was counting here that it would take another 24 years if we took this step. What can be done is precisely financing is the main reason to possibly speed up the demining process, we hire even more employees than those 623 pyrotechnicians and others, so that Croatia can reach 2019 as a country that is completely free and secure from mine-explosive resources. With clear funding from the state budget there are also loans and donations, not only for the exclusive work of those people on the ground but also for the implementation of preventive actions and there is already a really rich activity in terms of education on the dangers of mines, and indeed this activity is very, very widespread, very rich and I think that we can also thank a good part of the reduction in the number of victims compared to those in the past year because we know that the Mine Action Centre has been here for 12 years. How do you get the funds, how do you get the funds? And here's Mr. Davorko Vidovic said that it's true whether it's a loss, therefore by mistake, I don't believe that it's some kind of insolence to this problem of the Croatian government and the Minister of Shuker, this VAT on donations really should be considered and tried not to apply it to these funds that go out of donations and to demining. Similarly, it happens when we watch on TV actions or calls for help for sick children, for help and then you have a price on the screen that says call 5.50 kuna plus VAT. Indeed, it is one similar situation as here when a donation for mine action is taken from 800 thousand kuna or 114 thousand euros, amounting to VAT on donations already made by a colleague before me, i.e. 800 thousand kuna or 114 thousand euros. Therefore, it is one option, not so great, but in any case every kuna, every euro for this purpose, which is therefore of first-class interest to the Republic of Croatia very important, especially for Slavonia and Baranja, for five Slavonian counties that have more than 40% of undetermined areas compared to the entire untapped area in the Republic of Croatia. I'm particularly saying this because it's about orans, forests, so possibilities and economic, economic exploitation of these areas. In any case, the report has always been adopted, it has always been very transparent, and in the hope of increasing the allocations and donations for this purpose, so the purpose of humanitarian demining the Republic of Croatia has no reason to do so and not to adopt this report along with here well-intentioned proposals and in good faith that we will do something together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50883	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50884	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The end of the Homeland War in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, along with the war of destroyed settlements, major material damages, brought about a problem of mining and mine suspected spaces. The first estimates are about 157 km2 or 15 thousand 700 hectares. It refers to agricultural land, forest areas, infrastructure facilities, communications, meadows and pastures. The first jobs of humanitarian demining and search were carried out by Croatian military and police officers. In 1998 a Croatian Mine Action Centre was established with its headquarters in Sisak. After the establishment of the centre, all jobs related to the problem of humanitarian demining are transferred to the jurisdiction of the primary centre. Commercial companies for humanitarian demining and search operations equipped with the necessary technique are also established to ensure that jobs are quality and efficient. In the first years, businesses were focused on houses, gardens, communications and infrastructure in order to make the return of exile safe and effective. In parallel, demining and search works on agricultural and forest areas are performed. The amount of annual work carried out is conditioned by sources of funding for these jobs. The financing of demining is carried out by means of the state budget, donations from humanitarian organisations, donations from governments, institutions of various countries of the world who are willing to invest their own resources to address the problem of minima, both in the entire Republic of Croatia and in the Vukovar-Srijem County. Each year, Vukovar-Srijem County brings forward its demining plans, which, after a certain procedure, go into realisation in the sizes for which financial resources are secured. Works on humanitarian demining and searching are systematically taking place in Vukovar-Srijem County. In previous years the size of the area covered by demining operations was different, but on average about 280 hectares per year either agricultural or forest surfaces p demining and searching subsequent knowledge of land pollution by mine methods excluded the original surface area of mine suspected space in our county. In the middle of July 2008 it is... 79.1 or a kilometer square or 7 thousand 900 hectares covering 16 units of local or regional administrations and self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 13 municipalities and three cities: these are Germans, Jankovci, Nuštar, Bogdanovci, Jarmina, Ivankovo, Markusica, Trpinja, Vrbanja, Tordinci, Privlaka, Gunja and Drenovci, and the cities of Vukovar, Potok, Vinkovci. On humanitarian demining and search operations since the establishment of CROMAC in 1998, 308 projects have been completed in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, and the community has been returned to the use of 3,000 544 hectares of forest land, gardens, facilities, infrastructure. The jobs that have been done so far have found 12 thousand 642 deadly assets. In the structure of mine suspected areas, the majority are forest areas 55%, of the total area, while agricultural areas participate with 45% and the rest are meadows, unprocessable areas and a small percentage of infrastructure facilities. Agricultural land, state property, 2 000 310 hectares, private ownership of a thousand 240 hectares, the agreement was signed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forest and Water Economy, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, Development and Employment Fund, Croatian Forests, Croatian Electricity, Croatian Post Office, Adria Group, and Business Group, financial resources donated by Croatia's Catholic mission from... 15 thousand euros, Croatia... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The community of Australia 20 thousand kuna, military attachés from the Embassy of Germany and Italy 15 thousand 740 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to these raised funding, the fund also signed a memorandum of understanding, on the doubling of the 3 million kuna funds with the international demining and assistance foundation for victims of ITF mines based in Ljubljana total of 9 million 625 thousand kuna. The funds doubled through... The SDA governments totalled 12 million and 625 thousand with Vukovar-Srijem County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is one of the positive examples of the cooperation of Vukovar-Srijem cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, local and international communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50885	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is when my colleague, Mlinarić, summed up all possible sources of funding from the state budget, donations, this extraordinary example and a whole series of units of local self-government, in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, here I will mention our activities in the area of Požega-Slavon County, where the largest areas are covered by mines just in the western Slavonia, the battlefield of Western Slavonia, the towns of Pakrac and Lipik, remain more than 60km of untapped area and where we, like other cities and municipalities, are turning to different sources of financing, especially donors where we have extraordinary cooperation with CROMAC representatives, practically bring us to our yard donors from Europe and the whole world who are ready to assist in demining in this human activity and in our county, and here we hear from our colleagues Mlinarić, is similar in the area of the Vukovar County. But in the future, as we would like and and we want to speed up this deadline that is given here to demining the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, we will have to turn to the European funds, pre-accession funds, and this should take the initiative from cities, municipalities, of course, again with one quality CROMAC port at our disposal, to provide as much funds as possible from the pre-accession, accession funds of the European Union, so that this deadline for the whole of Croatia to be mineless, so that the whole of Croatia can be demined, as well as the cities of Pakrac, Lipik, as long as the Vukovar-Srijem County is as short as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50887	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague looked back at these parts of the former occupied area. I would also refer to that for the Vukovar-Srijem County where much of it was mined, but every year you heard that one part of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and the entire Croatian and Croatian Government are doing everything to get the mines out of our fields as soon as possible, and besides that, the Vukovar-Srijem County fellow mentioned projects, hastily doing projects to get as much and as possible out of European funds as possible, so that the funds will not be left to clear Croatia from mines as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50889	Thank you. In 10 and 39, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50890	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. Here is my predecessor, Mr. Mlinarić, of course, and I will look back on Vukovar-Srijem County, since first of all we are representatives of our environments, and the problem of demining is the problem of the entire Republic of Croatia, but above all, the problem of various developments in Vukovar-Srijem County is, of course, in a special position. To me, first of all, it's nice to see that despite the recession and the crisis, we can say in this general sense that what was planned is exceeded by a certain percentage. This time, so in Vukovar-Srijem County by 2.7%. So it turns out that and when the crisis is something can be done even though of course I would be even more satisfied that this percentage is even better. Namely, as we've heard since 1998, when data on the mine suspected area in Vukovar-Srijem County has really become known is over 12,000 hectares of which more than half of the forest surfaces have been polluted by mines. For the Vukovar-Srijem County area and the agricultural land issue and the forest area issue, it is a priority issue because these are simply the activities most concerned by people in these areas. So the most they do is agriculture, and exploiting and using forest potential is also, in any case, not to say equally or slightly less, as important as agriculture. As for 2009 we were here a few days ago and in the county assembly we had a agenda point concerning the report on the demining situation, and about a month ago we also saw ourselves in Vukovar at the presentation of ITF, so the International Mine Action and Assistance Foundation for Mine Victims from Ljubljana and the signing of one, I would say, a good agreement on further financing of demining operations in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. As far as the data from this report itself is concerned, it is therefore clear that the 2009 plan for the Vukovar-Srijem County area provided for humanitarian demining and search for just over 560 hectares. I will use these units because people living in Slavonia are easier to cope with in hectares than in millions of square meters and similar units. And it's demining somewhere around 575.6 hectares or, as I said, about 2.7% more than planned. But when we include both the general survey and the other 816.8 acres off, so total with demining surfaces, that's about 1392.4 hectares. In total, 32 projects were carried out in 2009 and some 58 million kuna were spent. Of course, agricultural areas and some of the forests are the most represented and what is encouraging for us from that county is that here is over 20% of the total demining areas at the level of the Republic of Croatia for that year 2009. It is also encouraging that Vukovar-Srijem County really takes a position, a certain place I would say and deserves in such jobs, so in 2009, it was in 2 places behind the naturally most polluted County of Osijek-Baranja with a share of about 15% of the committed funds provided for these jobs in the area of the Republic of Croatia. But when we talk about funds then, in any case, the most resources are from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. There's some donor funds, as I said, we saw at this ITF presentation what it all looks like. It is something from public companies, European and other governments of other world countries, etc. Finally, in 2009, about 5600 hectares of mine suspected space remained in Vukovar-Srijem County. Which means that from that initial surface, mine suspected space was reduced to about 46%. Of course, it is dominated by forest surfaces with over two thirds of that total surface. What I discussed last year, as part of this report, I will reiterate, and this is for the prominent is the Vukovar-Srijem County Mine Action Fund, which was formed in 2007 with a basic goal of helping the demining process in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. So far, this has resulted in donations, as it is primarily financed by donations of about 14 million kuna and thus demining nearly 138 hectares of surface area of Vukovar-Srijem County. What we in the county assembly found to be unsatisfactory, therefore councillors from Vukovar-Srijem County, is that in 2009, there was no payment in the fund, or what was supposed to be in 2009, something was paid in 2010, but of course the dynamics of that was something that would make any of us who was interested in the area happy. Also, the part that encourages us from Vukovar-Srijem County is that according to the state of mine suspected surfaces where we were in 7 places at the end of 2009 a few years ago we were at 4. So, it goes away, i.e. cleans the Vukovar-Srijem County and that's what encourages it in any case. Currently, some 16 local self-government units in the county are covered by this issue. It is especially for prominent municipalities of Germans, Stari Jankovci, Nuštar, Tordinci and of course the town of Vukovar as the centre of still mine suspected surfaces. The dynamics take place in such a way that indicators suggest that by 2014 all agricultural areas should be demined and searched, and until 2016 and the rest of the forest area. But what's the problem is the estimate that it takes about 250 million kuna. And only in the end will I return to the work of the Mine Action Fund, that is, in the way of funding, so to collecting donations. In one of the discussions, not earlier today, so somewhere early this year it was noted that in 2009, companies owned by a majority state or as we usually say public companies spent around 92 million kuna on donations. Over 50 million kunas, so over 53 million kunas went to finance sports clubs, alliances, etc. For example, more than half of it is Croatia's insurance company. I would be overjoyed and I believe all other colleagues if they saw something from these donations in one larger form and within the framework of the Vukovar-Srijem County Mine Action Fund or within the Croatian Mine Action Centre. And I appeal to those who have the potential to influence these people in public companies to pay attention to such one indicator that is not well shown for this human activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50891	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50892	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Director, Director. So a colleague mentioned to Heffer that precisely demining agricultural areas is a priority for the county from which he is. I think it is particularly important and highlighted also in this report that it is related to the Osijek-Baranja County. And I think that the data that is related to 111% of the realisation compared to the one planned for Osijek-Baranja County must indicate that this is exactly the priority of demining agricultural areas in the most part is realised in that area. The data related to cleaning in Osijek-Baranja County of agricultural areas indicate that it has gone towards it, which means liberating these areas from mines, because I also believe that the land categories of land that are being cleaned are very high quality and those as such are important for the development of agriculture in Osijek-Baranja County. It is also the possibility that there is, and that is to include these ornaments in organic production is one of the moments and confirm that this should continue. The Osijek-Baranja County itself has made a decision that the county is free of GMOs. Therefore, a mixture of such land, such clean land and such decisions certainly leads to the quality of the land being used and that this land will be used in the best way for new products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50893	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50894	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bodakosh. Of course, we who come from Slavonia understand the importance of agricultural land above all I've ever talked about. Here I'll just do the information to say over 12,000 acres that were '98. Like I said, the agricultural area was 5 grand and 90 acres and 42%. Now in 2009 out of 5 thousand 600 hectares in Vukovar-Srijem County, agricultural area is a thousand 770 hectares or 32%. So this trend of a faster demining of agricultural areas is evident than, say, forest surfaces. Finally, here is Table 3 which we have here in this report shows for Vukovar-Srijem County almost 74% of total demining areas in 2009 are agricultural areas, and this is something to a lesser extent also the case in Osijek-Baranja County. Therefore, the issue of agricultural areas as a priority is clearly recognised by various demining bodies and bodies. However, something is easier to demining the agricultural area than the forest area, but I believe that this segment will be demined as soon as possible and that it will provide the possibility, as you say, of no longer being polluted by mines, but not polluted by herbicides, pesticides and other protective means, and that it will also be a good basis for the development of organic agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50895	Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50896	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the problem of mine suspected area is certainly the brake of the development of various resources, but also the possibility of injury. So here's to mention the data on the victims from the beginning we have a thousand 900 people who are victims, of these 460 are deaths, of them 59 pyrotechnicians. I've got to mention the pyrotechnics that are actually everyday at every minute of their work are in life's peril. Their concentration must not fall. They often say as long as they're in their square that they don't have any wandering thoughts. But from this report, we have seen that we can actually sense that because of the money constraints, it will surely remain a threat and a long time ago, of course, to suffer, and also to stop the development of various resources. We have seen from this report that the 2009 state budget has 62%, then the legal person 16%, donations 14%, 8% of the world loan, but this is for the field of special state care. A 5.1% increase in price is also visible. As far as the state budget is concerned, I think it's not enough funds and it can't just be based on it, and that's the highest percentage. It should turn to European funds. Here is a 590m-euro programme framework for Croatia through IPA. However, the problem is that Croatia did not ask for demining to be included in the priorities, but the demining actually appears as a subjectivity in the realization of a larger project within which demining is needed. And I think, in fact, that in the next period and we know what year we are assigned, we really need to find ways to get more involved in European funds in solving this problem. Because at this rate that we've heard so far and from the reports of my predecessors, we've actually seen that it takes a lot more years. As far as my county of Dubrovnik-Neretva County is concerned, I can say that, in contrast to other parts, I can express my satisfaction. In fact, the County of Dubrovnik and Stone has been excluded from the mine-suspecting area until this year. Here's the information for the first part of 2010 that was demining 363,000 255 m2. It stands for the coast of Dubrovnik and the municipality of Konavle. There are 2 million 680 thousand m2 left in the coast of Dubrovnik, i.e. in the municipality of Konavle a little more. However, the biggest problem is in fact this mined area, i.e. a suspected mined area, these are essentially the border areas of the Konavle municipality and towards Montenegro and towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also know that fires are possible in this area, there were fires, fires are possible, precisely because of mines and inaccessibility. The only one who can shut down upstairs are canaders and we actually have, I'm going back to IPA funds because we have a special component on cross-border cooperation. The year that was drawn as a year when our country should be demined, I think the question is, will we be able to do it at such a pace and with such financial means? And I hope that you will consider actually the observation of our club representative who spoke on behalf of the VAT club on donations, that this VAT does not actually apply to such funds because the funds of 800,000 kuna which is collected, i.e. 114 thousand euros are not small funds. Such funds should be spent more meaningfully, that is, in this particular problem that we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50897	Thank you. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The demining business in 2009 was returned to the use of 62,000 km2 which transferred the plan for 2009 101%. A total of 307 expert controls were carried out in 2009. On 4247 control samples of 571 thousand 134 m2. It was also found and destroyed in the same year as 3395 anti-walk mines, 5576 anti-arming mines and 1180 various killings, but unexploded mines. In the overall achievement of 2009, it is necessary to point out that the mine threat has been completely removed from the areas of the cities of Biograd at sea, Zadar in Zadar County, Slunja in Karlovac County, Erduta in Osijek-Baranja County, Vojnić in Karlovac County and that the demining of the total mine suspected area of Krka National Park was also carried out in 2009. And then in this report page 5 follows a description of the achievements by county, which I think has been extremely well done. I will not, colleagues and colleagues, elaborate all 12 counties, but I would briefly refer to my Brod-Posavina County from where I come from. In 2009, 1 km2 was demined in the settlements Dragalić, Gorica, it is the municipality of Gornji Bogićevci, Žumberkovac in the municipality of Okucani and part of the resources of Croatian forests in the forest of Prašnik. There's something I wanted to say, and I'm going to say something about that Dustwood forest. Perhaps you did not know colleagues and colleagues, Prašnik is a forest in the Municipality of Stara Gradiška unique, special reserve of forest vegetation and a unique forest in this part of Croatia where at 53 hectares, there are 1400 pieces of oak oak, beech heights of 40 m, grab etc. Josip Kozarac wrote "Tena", "Three days at the son", "Slavon Forest", but he also wrote "Dead Capital". I really believe that the forest is Prašnik that it is dead capital, that it is a unique park of this kind of vegetation in this part of Europe, and that when we give priorities to really this unique park, a reserve of such forests in this part of Europe where oaks are 2 to 3 meters in diameter, beech 70 to 2 meters in diameter, they can not be exploited, and it might be good to deminate those areas and pave the forest roads and remind it or declare it a special nature park for reasons because it is located near the park Lonjsko polje. As far as the area in Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijem County is concerned, I recommend those agricultural areas that are in this year 2009 and this has priority to hurry with demining so that trees, plants, should be demined square by square, otherwise they could enter those areas with machines where I suppose such a type of work would be far cheaper. In this part of Croatia, mainly in the Vukovar area, we know that the most quality country in this part of Europe is so why not give someone a 12, 13, 20 hectares in a concession for 30 years with the obligation to demine them and pay for this demining and how that tablet is poured out, undermined and planted culture. Because in this part of it, just don't forget to sow it otherwise it's a very fertile land. From what I'm told, I will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50899	Thank you. Two replicas. First Mrs. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50900	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a good fellow you mentioned that danger has been removed from the areas of the cities of Zadar and Biograd at sea. Just when you mentioned I will say that before this tourist season to point out once again that all tourist destinations in Zadar County are clean, that all communications to tourist destinations are also clean, and what is not clean, or an area polluted by mine explosive means that according to the rules of the Croatian Mine Action Centre is marked by exactly a thousand 627 warning tables in the Zadar County area. And one more thing, I'm going to mention once again that it means that no matter what is in the Zadar County area, there is still a mine suspected area of 64 km square, and I'm going to remind you that after the war there were 800 km square, so we've brought those areas down to 64 and we've still got about 5,000 mines of explosives scattered in the Zadar County, I'd like to point out that this area is clearly or properly marked with mine explosives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50901	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50902	Thank you very much. In my address, of course, I did not point out for the sake of time, of course I am glad that the areas around the settlement had priority and that this job had been brought to an end. I am also particularly happy that in our tourist resorts and that this job is done for the safety of persons, citizens and those who come to us in Croatia, but I repeat again that we would not be late for demining agricultural areas, so that these areas do not cross from the chicar to the forest and that they do not make twice as much financial work in this kind of business, I recommend that the surfaces have an advantage on the floor, agricultural surface. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50903	And Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50904	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So when you talk about the forest Prašnik, surely it is that unique example of the forest of the oak tree in Croatia, in the world. I would also mention a man's well, but here you used one false sentence to prevent an explosion in that forest. Since this is the forest it is then used for scientific research purposes there is no exploitation in these parts of the forest, however, the problem is those other forest areas that you have mentioned here, but also in the entire Republic of Croatia the forest surface where it is lost precisely because of the deforestation, the quality of these forests is lost, growth is lost, and ultimately the wood industry is not getting an adequate wood supply, i.e. wood mass that it can exploit, or rework. Another problem is that there are a lot of things in forests and forest land that are limited by suspicion of mine explosives, and therefore I welcome this decision to exclude as much as possible by review and I think there is a CROMAC along with the Croatian forests and probably the advisory service will increasingly work and that these surfaces will be less for a simple reason because there are illogical land mines on forests and forest land, so it can be excluded from mine suspected surfaces sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50905	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50906	Of course, my colleague that I am familiar with the Piglet male well on the Papuk, certainly demining not to exploit this 53.35 hectare but by coming to this point, these surfaces need much to be demined and exploited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50907	Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50908	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, so what should be said at the beginning is that Croatia's first demining plan should be demining Croatia by 2010, then it has been delayed and now, according to the new demining plan, it has been delayed until 2019. What I must remind myself is that the demining funds continued to be allocated, as was the case between 2000 and 2003, then surely by 2010, so I will not say the complete demining plan for Croatia until 2010, but would not have such big problems as we have today. By 2000, by 2003, demining money increased from 200 to more than 342 million kuna in that year alone, then in this later period that money was about to vary at that amount, but that the same dynamics began, i.e. any demining, i.e. growth in demining demining, Croatia would already be well demining. But this is not the main and primary problem, the main and primary problem is that so far 300 people have been killed, 300 people have lost their lives, and this is the primary job for the government. 300 victims are more important than the naked buttocks on the tourist video, everyone will agree, 300 people are also a message for tourism, for Croatia as a tourist brand that wants to be profiled in this profile. When we enter the European Union, I hope almost, we will be the country that is closest to our Central European neighbours on a tourist map but also a country that has 857 km of square under minefields. In developed countries, they also count on the value of a human life translated into all the productive things that it can contribute to in its career. That's how it is, for example. In Germany, a man's life in a financial picture is estimated to be worth about a million euros throughout his life, 300 people killed in this process are half the amount Croatia spent on and more than half the amount, 60% of the amounts Croatia invested in demining and that is 3.1 billion kuna. 3.1 billion kuna is a great deal of money, but obviously it wasn't enough and to prevent these effects from being productive, but unfortunately they're not with us anymore. What is missing from this report and the way it is written is that everything has been done since the start of the implementation of the mine action plan. The report is 2009 but would be better off covering the demining dynamics of square miles, demining by age. So we would get a more complete insight and I think it's for the MPs in this House much, much more important. The Croatian Mine Action Centre has grown from one institution, according to many, professional and wider public, to an institution that has become quite bulky, to an institution that spends a lot of money on cold drive, and in the opinion of the Employers' Association, it is an institution that has bureaucratized many jobs. So many demining jobs and were, so many companies that deal with it were up to 3 months out of work. It's precisely because of bureaucratic obstacles to that one globular system. What Croatia must enable, which is the biggest responsibility of the government, is how to help, how to help administrative obstacles and barriers overcome, and not how to make them bigger, because in this way more km of squares will be able to mine. But that doesn't matter, it's important that we save people's lives. What should also be said is that because of the demining business and what Croatia also represents as a tourist brand in the world this task should be one of the government's primary tasks and it would be good to have a resolution minister here when it comes to such a subject. Because at this point, I think demining is a job, especially when many human lives are lost, much more important than intervention to some kind of tourist advertising that, with all due respect, is not the primary job of this government. The primary job of this government is to protect people's lives in this way and to worry about the functioning of Croatia, to worry about that. encourages employment and to care for 320 thousand unemployed at present and 80,000 people who work and do not receive wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50909	Thank you. One correction, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50910	Thank you. Well, it's not true, colleague Bernardic, the fact that it continued to invest as it was in demining in 2002, that much, much more could be demining, or that today we wouldn't have the problem that we have. We should first, tell us how much this year's surface has been demined by these funds, or how much of these funds are exactly the demining component. If you had said that, I would have believed you, this is not true. ... You could've done your best to find the data. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] But the report says the colleague that they're with that year, so for the last two years they've been, so the last two years have been with 2002 with the biggest investment in demining operations. That's what it says on the page. 16 reports, and you could have told us that. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50911	Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50912	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Director, fellow MPs. A few words, of course, about this very interesting subject. As we know, the Croatian Mine Action and Mine Action Centre has always been an interesting and unfortunately current topic for 19 years here in the country. 19 years after the war we are still talking about how to mine Croatia. And this is the key question of colleagues how to demine Croatia? We're saying that, and we'll probably be talking for the next 10 years. It is true that many mines have been sown, tanks, pedestrian mines, various unexploded funds, improvised mines, and that the country has been terribly contaminated by this evil. In my opinion, that's the worst and most vile evil a man has ever done. But the truth is that in these 12 years since we have the Mine Action Centre, our Mine Action Centre, we've spent more than 3 billion and 100 million kunas on demining. As we've seen, 110 people were killed, 296 and more. Many children died, and the planned new demining plan was in 2019. That's a big problem. I remind this High House that the first National Mine Action Plan of the Republic of Croatia envisioned this year as the final year to clear the country of mines. So we're 10 years late, 10 years, or 9 years later we'll be behind the first in the Parliament here through the adopted anti-mining demining plan. Now, I'm asking people who run the CROMAC, because this is a pure profession, it has nothing to do with the policy as much as anyone has given because all the governments have given and will give funds for it. Is the demining system in the Republic of Croatia good, that's an important question to me now? Have we done everything we can to solve this evil as soon as possible? Throw him out of the country, destroy him? Will the new anti-mining plan end up in the mud just like the old one? It's an important and crucial question here in the Parliament. Do you guarantee Mr. Director that with these resources that we have today and which we will have next year and which are planned until 2019 will we be able to complete this mission? It's a mission for all of us, it's not a one-party mission, it's not a one-man mission, it's not a one-man mission. It's a mission for all of us. That's a very important question, and that's where we have to be responsible. The Assembly must be responsible and the Assembly must support the Director of CROMAC with resources, maximum resources that we can allocate regardless of what economic situation we are in so that they can function faster and better. I wonder, if we fail to realize the plan by 2019, who will be responsible? How many more people are gonna get hurt? How many will die? How many people are gonna run out of arms, no legs? How many kids are gonna die? It's a very important question and we need to think about it. It must always stand somewhere in our head, in our brain, because we know we're nine years old, we're gonna have nine years of contaminated space, we're gonna be nine years old every day, and we might think about someone getting killed or losing their leg. Reading the report made me think there was no problem in CROMAC. I'm interested in whether these funds are sufficient? Director, let's talk about it. Is this how it's all good now, everything's fine, and what we don't have to see? I'd like to, for example. Unlike how it was the Croatian Army very short, but very precise and very clearly reported, the problems were solved. I wish in the next report, we could all agree on that, see if we have any problems? I say, that's the problem with all of us, it's not the CROMAC director's problem right now, it's all of us and how we all work it out together. And that would be good and desirable in the future report too. We want to know what problems CROMAC faces and whether there are problems. That's an important question. Because we share with you all the successes and share all the failures. I'm going to ask the question, the CROMAC has been working this way for many years, since our draft. I know that he is branded well, I know that by modeling our Croatian centre that the Republic of Serbia has formed its center. I know that we have a lot of opportunities and that we share a lot today through this international cooperation and that we have a really good rating. But I'm going to ask if the system, the principal, is too massive now? Is a lot of money being spent on cold drive? About 40 million kuna? Maybe we should think about redecorating so we can make the machine faster, maybe more efficient, and that in this crisis I'm talking about because we have a crisis, which we have problems, which is what every kuna is precious to us and that we could reroute one... into pure demining. I have to ask a question, what about Mungos, too, he is now known in one way to the Croatian Mine Action Centre. How does it work? That's not exactly what we see in the report. Is it in the negative again? We know what problems we had that tens of millions of kunas had to write from the state alone because all of Mungos' leading administrations so far have made a huge loss. And how does Mungos work now? And is everything legal when two state-owned companies have one Mungos and another Mungos when one state-owned company can be a subcontractor to another state-owned company. And I'm interested in whether that's possible under the law. I'll refer later. They were with me from the Employers' Association, and then they told me a few of the problems they see and I keep that the principal knows about all these problems and we all here. I think that we are all very interested in demining and we are full of emotion on this subject and I say, regardless of the politics, that this is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to resolve this as soon as possible. But I can't end up being satisfied personally because I'm a soldier because I've had a lot of experience with these unfortunate mines, I've put a lot of them on and I've raised them from the ground, and I'm afraid I've had to drag a lot of my friends and we've dragged them. We carried one even seven hours on two rifles, and we were in the depths of the enemy very much. Of course we all have emotions and can't be satisfied because it's been too long and it'll be too long before 2019, and we'll still be contaminated by this greatest evil man ever invented. Like I said, they were with the Employers' Association. They complain that the system is too bureaucratic, I'm quoting now, I don't want to say that it is. There's a director who's still part of the system and who's part of us. They told me last year, three months passed, so 11 and 12 didn't work demining companies. I don't know that. In general, a little work in the winter in Dalmatia that some projects are the majority of projects that were in Slavonia, which is logical. Since there was less rain down there, less snow, and the terrain is harder and more suitable for demining. They also complained about the supervisors. I know that we must have strong supervisors, strong supervisors that private companies will have to oversee and monitor them, that it must all be by rule, by profession and by law, but they have complained that they are not the same criteria. That one company has one criterion and another company has other criteria. I've opened up a few of these issues and the problems that we want to discuss, of course, and the goal is how I said that as soon as possible, that we look at it together for the improvement of all of us. I'd like to see and I'd like to hear the principal what he thinks about this and what he's going to do about it? The ultimate goal is for all of us to solve the mine demining and minefield problem as quickly as possible, as quickly as possible, as best as possible. We are the main brand of tourism, we have already heard about it here, but people who pass through the Republic of Croatia if they go this old road D1 or if they go all over Croatia can see very many boards with the sign "Watch out mines". It is not a good message, and that is one more reason to speed up this process to bring it to perfection to get rid of this problem as soon as possible. We will also enter the European Union. The Croatian Republic has given huge funds and rightly requires that the problem be resolved as soon as possible. It is not a good message to enter the European Union with 887 square miles of mined and suspicious areas in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50913	Thank you. One correction by Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50914	My colleague Kotromanović's mine danger markings are a good message. It's not true that it's a bad message. It is an excellent message, because when they are in places and in the way they are set up, they are an excellent message to all those who come to Croatia. I've said that before. So they're a message that this is how one responsible state behaves. What's clean is clean, what's not clean is marked. That's how the responsible state behaves exactly like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50915	Replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50916	I fully agree with your presentation and everything you've said. However, I now guarantee that the demining business will not be completed until 2019. It won't be over. Why won't there be any finished colleagues and colleagues you know well that in this country everything that can turn into a business turns into a business in one negative way unfortunately. Fight addiction, see how much money we spend and how much our effects are. Demining, school textbooks turn everything into business except business itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50917	Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50918	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Mine pollution in the Republic of Croatia causes a whole range of economic, development, environmental and social disorders, and mainly the safety problems of the population in the areas that were in the fields of war. Large agricultural areas, forest complexes, border belts and parts of the riverbanks are still unreachable today because of the minimality or suspicion of their mining. In the past period, the financing of mine action in the Republic of Croatia has been carried out through several basic sources of financing. Mostly from the state budget, then loans from the Republic of Croatia to the World Bank, legal persons and bodies of the state administration and donors. Donors for demining also recorded growth and reached an average value of 50.6 million kuna per year over the last three-year period. So far, donations in total funds spent on demining have participated in 17% of which are 88% on foreign donations. In recent years, a slight increase in domestic donations has also been observed. A total of 2 billion 780 million kunas were spent for demining between 1998 and 2008. Since the beginning of the war in 1991 to 2008, a thousand 888 people have been killed in mine incidents, of which 492 fatalities, and a thousand 103 people have suffered serious physical injuries. Strengthening cooperation between subjects conducting mine danger education has contributed to a reduction in the number of people who suffer in mine incidents over the years. Thus, from 1998 to 2008, we record 289 deaths in 211 incidents. Of the total number of people killed, 106 were killed and 120 were injured with severe physical injuries. Education programmes on mine dangers have emerged in the Republic of Croatia in response to widespread mine pollution in 12 of 21 counties. Their speciality is their duality of goals, to prevent mine-induced accidents and to create a lasting programme. In the Republic of Croatia mine education programmes are conducted by the Croatian Red Cross, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. And since the endangered part of the population is a large number of NGOs, I will mention some of them, the Mine-Aid Association, the Daska Theatre, the "Croatia without Mines" Foundation, the Association of Croatian Civil Victims from the Homeland War of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Mine Victims Association, the Bembo Association, the Children's Amateur Puppet Theatre "Pinokio" Knin, the puppet scene MM from Osijek, as part of their regular work programmes, and thus seek to familiarize the community with the problem facing the Republic of Croatia. All these programmes are implemented in cooperation with the Croatian Mine Action Centre as a coordinator of mine action activities, which gives support to interested NGOs in order to develop their own mine danger programmes and aims to ensure that more organisations participate actively and cooperate. This increases the sustainability and effectiveness of the mine threat education programme in the Republic of Croatia. At mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia that extends to 12 counties, i.e. 111 cities and municipalities, 921 thousand 253 inhabitants are directly at risk of mine danger, which accounts for 43.2% of the total population in the counties with mine suspected space, i.e. 20.8 of the total population of the Republic of Croatia. This indicator clearly points to the risk that a large number of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia are exposed daily, while at the same time establishing one of the most significant priorities in mine action in the period from 2019 to 2019. During the past period, the demining priorities were the reconstruction of houses, transport and municipal infrastructure at national level, the restoration of the Ernestinovo trafostation and the belonging of electrical transmission facilities, the construction of the Zagreb-Dubrovnik highway, the channel of first and second rows, the dikes and areas near the inhabited houses and the immediate vicinity of the settlement. The biggest problem for the economy is the mined agricultural land and oranica and forest areas. One of the priorities at the beginning of the demining process was to create conditions for the safe stay of tourists in the Republic of Croatia. To this end, demining areas along tourist roads and mine suspected space are distanced from the same area, which allowed the safe arrival of tourists to the desired destinations. In the area of four Dalmatian counties there are still about 250 m2 of land under mines and most of them are in the Zadar County area. Under the National Mine Action Programme, it is planned to remove the mine risk from the areas intended for the reconstruction of houses and infrastructure by the end of 2010, and until the end of 2013. Of course, the implementation of the plan depends on the flow of material resources and on the possible usability of human and machine capacities in mine action. About 60 km2 of mine suspected area remained in Sibenik-Knin County. In most cases, it is about 85%, while only 2.4% of mine polluted surfaces are in agricultural areas. From 1998 to today, 19.3 km2 has been demined and searched, while this year it plans to deminise 3.8 km2 of mine suspected surfaces. About 250 million kunas were spent on demining and searching the soil from 1998 to today. In the town of Skradin alone, 15.9 km2 of mine suspected area remained. So far, 7.4 km2 has been demined and 80 million kunas have been spent, and in 2010, demining is planned to be slightly less than 1 km2. After much of the agricultural area has been demined in the Skradin area, it is agreed to continue intensive demining of the area of the tourist zone Prokljan. There are 26 thousand m2 of surfaces left in the Krka National Park area. Ten people have been killed by mines in the last 11 years in Sibenik-Knin County, four of which were fatal. Obviously, the demining process does not take place at that pace as we would like. We're all responsible for this, because while there's one meter of unminded land, there's a danger of suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50919	Thank you. And Madam Representative Vesna Škulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't know if it's true, but since it's a very, very serious subject I'm going to be a little unserious. Is it true that you are the main face in Croatia today? I don't know, they say you're in charge today, so it's my honor to have a hearing today. But let us move on to a subject that is very, very serious and as my colleague Kotromanović said that we are all very emotionally related to this topic, especially those we have lived or lived in areas that have been affected by war or near these areas. We know that wars don't stop when the truce is signed, or when war acts stop, they just turn into another form, or when even after the war happens, dead. That's exactly what we see from this report. That's how one was killed or killed is a lot. That's why I don't want to talk about numbers. It's a lot to talk about because they mean someone's name and family name. We are faced with the fact that we do not have a stable system of funding from the state budget that would significantly give to the demining speed, not only do we not have a stable system but there are also reduced resources from the budget. $ is recognised as an international partner in mine risk recognition, we are signatories of the Ottawa Convention, we are the only country outside the UN headquarters, and we are not from a group of third-world countries that received the organisation of an international convention in 2004 of dangers from, or dangers from mines when discussed at that convention. Unfortunately, however, with the great effort of the people working on lobbying to keep this convention in Croatia at all and to focus on the scales of minefields in our country and when we got the convention's organisation, and they couldn't mention the enormous efforts of Ms. Diana Pleština throughout the story, we dealt with everyone about this convention, just not with the essence. Were they supposed to be crying, whether it was going first this flag or some other, the media and the state top were acting as if they weren't concerned by the convention itself and all that it means, but they were just watching where there was going to be an organisational mistake and there was our biggest mistake. We've been dealing with ourselves, and the problem is I repeat all of us once again. But let's get back to the present. In addition to reducing funding from the state budget, donations have also been cut. I've had a chance to talk to some donors who've been involved in financing, the Mine Victims Centre, all of them interested in helping in this area, what they expect, and a greater interest in ourselves, let's just mention VAT. Not only are humanitarian action enough, I think more should be invested in educational programmes as well as rehabilitation processes. Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know if you know that there is a volleyball league in Croatia in the sitting volleyball that brings together 12 teams, somewhere around 150 active volleyball players, mostly composed of young people who have lost their limbs due to mine loss or similar devices. Unfortunately, no one recognized this way of rehab through sport, and they're on their own. This should be a process that binds to education, and when suffering occurs at good and quality medical rehabilitation, but we must not forget about this social aspect, they are mostly financed at local level, and we also know that there are cut-off funds. And at the end of the mark. I am from the vicinity of Zadar, or Razanca, so I am at the edge of the war. In the Maslinica action about tens of feet from my house the hurricane was thrown, and now we have the hurricane's situation thrown away in 24.2.1993, the pyrotechnics went out on the ground the day after, so-called. Tinker Bells, after that nothing until May last year before I started the tourist season. Along the Pag road, in the village of Škulića, so right along the road, large mine hazard tables were placed. I contacted everyone in charge, because after so many years, I was told it was a tip, but after that, no one ever went out on the field again, so it's been a year to check the ground, whether there's really a danger, or if someone just tipped off. Generally, the Croatian Mine Action Centre says it can't be without the police, police say it can't be without the centre and that's where the problem has been spinning for a year in a circle. I note that for 17 years, in this area and this way people have been going to vineyards, that by the very edge of the road it makes sense to me if the area is suspicious to mark, but it doesn't make sense that no one has come after that, once again examined the suspicious area, since it is located in the settlement, so from one and the other sides are houses, people are going to the fields, they are also close to sheep, now it's asparagus season, people are going to asparagus and no one else, absolutely nobody cares whether there are bells or not, because there they pass there every day. As you explain to someone 80 years old, you could walk there for 17 years, but now you can't. No one has explained to the people who live here what it is, why the markings after so many years and of course that people ignore these markings. That's not how the responsible state behaves as my esteemed colleague claims. Somewhere in their head is called the Law on Golf Courses, but also the Agency for the Sale of Unsuspecting Areas, and most of the ageing household lives here. I wouldn't really want these markings to be misused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50921	Thank you. That fellow Škulić, that's on the facebook about the face. ... It's on the facebook about the face. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm impressed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Final review, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50922	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honored ladies and gentlemen, I thank, above all, this truly tolerated debate from which it was evident that this problem of mine pollution of the Republic of Croatia does not have any political omens, no political colors, no party colors, and that we are all all aware that this is one of the problems to which each government should give priority, because it poses a danger to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia where there is this mine danger. I would say that, that most MPs in their speech noticed and noticed that despite the crisis, the demining recession in the Republic of Croatia last year did not feel these problems and that the plan was reached in a 100% amount and that there was no reduction and allocation of funds to resolve mine action in the past year in line with the 2009 plan. Also, according to the national mine action programme for the period 2010 to 2019, I think that this problem is objectively seen and that the national programme adopted by the Government in 2008 has absolutely established a real framework, primarily a time and financial framework in which the problem of pollution of the Republic of Croatia mines by 2019 will be realised as the end of the year. Croatia certainly has knowledge, Croatia also has the resources needed and, if the funds are provided, the problem of demining Croatia will surely be resolved by 2019 as foreseen by the National Programme. Certain doubts or criticisms have been expressed here in some participants of this humanitarian demining process and CROMAC is also mentioned. There were questions as to whether it was a bulky machine? Is there too much red tape? There were also some comments which were above all the comments made by HUP, i.e. companies participating in the demining process. However, I would say that we must make sure that this is a model that is recognized and recognised in a world that does not end commercially precisely because this job is done in one acceptable way within the means available. Since most of these transactions are financed from the state budget and, in part, from donations and other sources. I'm sure this year, too, that jobs have gone according to the 2010 dynamics and plans. There are always problems like weather problems, like some other objective factors affecting this process. But surely the 2010 plan will be realised at 100% as well as in 2009. And I deeply hope that the entire demining process of Croatia will be realised in accordance with the Government's National Mine Action Programme by 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50923	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. One notice. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Representative Petar Selem, convened a meeting of the Committee at 13:30 at the "Janko Draskovic" Hall 202/2.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50924	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. We continue to work and vote on the debated agenda points. Please engage to try to determine the quorum. Please, let's get on with it. We're checking the quorum. What's the score? There were 86 MPs and MPs involved here, and by my own free judgment, there are more of us. So we have a quorum and we can make a right decision. It's number 97. We move on to the 2009 report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting in the conclusion that: the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2009. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The result? I find that most of the vote is 98 votes in favour of, 3 abstentions, nothing against, this report accepted. The SDP representative club proposed that the conclusion be drawn: it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare and submit within 60 days a proposal to the Croatian Parliament to amend and supplement the Value Added Tax Act relating to the payment of VAT to accepted donations to humanitarian organisations. I ask the government's representative, Secretary of State, Ivica Buconjic, to be made aware of this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50925	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Value Added Tax Act, which was in force until 31 December 2009, was exempt from importing goods other than oil, petroleum products, tobacco and tobacco products, alcohol and alcoholic beverages, which are as a donation to humanitarian organisations, health, education, cultural, scientific, religious and social institutions, sports amateur clubs and bodies of local, regional (regional) self-government, as well as the import of goods and services abroad by those paid from foreign donations received. The provisions of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, which entered into force on 1 January 2010, have repealed those provisions, but the provisions of Article 26(4) of that Act prescribe the procedure for the enforcement of those benefits, i.e. the releases initiated before the entry into force of the Act 1.1.2010. In the light of the above, the donation of money without counterproductiveness is not subject to value added tax, however, the delivery of goods and services paid from such foreign cash donations is no longer exempt from payment of value added tax, since the Republic of Croatia is required to comply with the provisions of Directive 2006/112/EC which does not prescribe such exemptions in that part and which is done in the light of the commitments made from the negotiating positions for Chapter 16 of the Tax. In view of the above, it is not possible to propose amendments to the Value Added Tax Act which would be contrary to Directive 2006/112/EC and to other Directives relating to the field of value added tax. Therefore, this conclusion cannot be accepted because that conclusion would be contrary to Directive 2006/112/EC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50926	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. You suggested, the government was obvious, we vote. Please, let's get involved and vote on the proposal for this conclusion. The government, of course, doesn't accept it, but please choose to vote. Please! We are voting on the conclusion, a proposal for the conclusion of the SDP club at which the government was manifested, does not accept the conclusion, and I ask that we engage and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The result? This SDP conclusion was not accepted, 36 for, 4 abstentions and against 72.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50927	We are going to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Marine Fisheries Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 519 The legislator is the Government. Emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and European Integration, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and by the Committee on Law. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Tonci Bozanic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50928	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Here, we have before us the Sea Fisheries Act. So, as we know, Croatia is a maritime country and I believe this law is one of the most significant laws. So, in December, we passed the Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market, and with this Marine Fisheries Act, we close the legislative framework for the maritime fisheries sector. I stress that the EU has a common fisheries policy with which we are obliged to bring ourselves into line. So, we need to bring our legislation in line with EU legislation. No matter how far Croatia's fisheries policy has pursued the same objectives as the EU's fisheries policy, there are still certain differences, and in the part of the control and control system and in the fishing fleet management system, they are most obvious. So one of the main objectives of adopting this law is to create an appropriate legal framework that will make it easier to include Croatia's fishing sector in the EU's common fisheries policy, under which uniform measures are required. Therefore, this law primarily regulates the management of the renewable wealth of the sea and their protection. The arrangements and conditions of fishing and breeding and their monitoring through the data collection system and the monitoring system of fishing vessels, the control and control structure and a number of other issues related to the importance of marine fisheries shall be regulated. Of course, the basis of this law creates conditions for the adoption of a whole series of sublegal acts brought by a resolution minister. It is also important to stress that this law also prescribes a way of performing school and recreational fishing where we have a very large number of participants. It also prescribes a special category of fishing tourism. A new category of small coastal fisheries, proposed by this law, would also take effect from the beginning of 2015, which in one part would be a substitute for the current small fisheries. The law further prescribes the conditions for the first sale of fish and how to keep records of catches, landings, crossings, fish storage and delivery and records. In addition, satellite monitoring of fishing vessels and the operation of fishing monitoring centres has been prescribed. The coordination of all bodies involving supervision and control and uniform treatment, planning and uniform reporting is also prescribed. This approach will certainly ensure maximum efficiency and reduce overall control costs. I would point out that one of the criteria for the closure of Chapter 13, so the fisheries chapters, in our pre-accession negotiations, is to define through this law of supervision and control. Therefore, this law is also proposed by an emergency procedure because the sooner we need to respect one of the 3 criteria that we have and this law. A few words about a newspaper in this law we've never had before. This law for the first time includes regional and local self-government, taking care of landing sites, fishing ports, because we know that the founders of the county port administrations are the units of regional self-government. They are also urged to engage with local self-government units in considering fisheries regulation, so to engage as a partner with this ministry in defining some forms of fisheries regulation. It's also a newspaper to introduce a fleet register. We know that in the European Union it has long been in force to define the size of the ship, by gross registration tones and engine strength. So if one vessel exits from fishing, the other vessel can only fish for the same size instead. So this law prescribes a single register where both the tonage and the power of that fishing vessel will be prescribed and recorded. The law also allows what is new compared to the current law on the adoption of rules on the management of fishing areas. So we have so far had a regulated time allowed to fish, allowed tools in the allowed time, and based on these provisions in the proposal for this law, we will be able to define a maximum number of ships in a given area. Also related to protected areas of nature. The proposal for this law contains one newspaper that also brings some improvements, for for example so far in protected areas of nature and in the national park we had special regulations. It wasn't a fishing sea. The regulations were introduced by an institution that managed the area, and often the other part of the fishing sea was far more stringent criteria for the protection of biological resources than those of nature. Thus, the proposal for this law requires that even in those parts of nature protected, the rules to be laid down must not be less favourable than those laid down by this law. As you know, there have been certain polemics related to the proposal to regulate sports and recreational fishing. There were even public protests. I must tell you that I have held a series of meetings with representatives of sports fishermen and at a meeting held with representatives of the Croatian Sports Fishing Union at sea are agreed compromises and we have received written acceptance of these proposals containing this bill. I must also point out that the proposal for this law was preceded by a broad public debate involving representatives of all stakeholders, starting with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Fishermen's Ceh to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to the Fishing Union, scientists were included in all the resolution ministries. Even individual working groups for the area of fisheries were established, for the area of cultivation. So in this broad debate, I personally hold that everything that has been reasoned is contained in the proposal for this law. So what I would like to say in the end is that I really believe that this law will allow for responsible and long-term sustainable exploitation of living wealth in an ecologically balanced and economically and socially justified way. And also given that this law deals with cultivation, it also enables the development of the activities of cultivation, but it is particularly important to take into account the most ecological standards. So here's the sequence of all of these I suggest you support this law. Finally, I would say, given that we have received amendments from the Parliamentary Committee on Law and the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, we have considered them and here on behalf of the promoters I can say that we accept these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50929	Thank you very much. Committees on legislation, on European integration, on agriculture, fisheries and rural development. The chairman of the committee of Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament held its 29th session on 18 and 25 March 2010. Proposal for a Maritime Fisheries Act with a final proposal for a law as a home working body. The debate was attended by representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Union of Fishermen in Croatia. The debate clarifies the inaccuracies to the inaccuracy of the definition of criminal provisions which may have drastic consequences for the legal person in terms of ending the activity. The purpose of fines is to discipline the responsible and criminal provisions should go in this direction. Considering what practical application of criminal provisions may mean in terms of consequences for a legal person. Therefore, it may occur that an explosive on board is a member of the crew and that the owner of the vessel, or the privilege, does not know, as it cannot be avoided that the legal person is punished, should examine the criminal provisions in terms of the greater punishment of the responsible person in the legal person. In the bill of law, there is too much difference in fines between a legal person and a responsible person in a legal person. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the context of Article 108(3), the question of the link between craftsmen and small coastal fisheries has also been raised. The debate highlights the need to introduce a new category of small coastal fisheries as a partial replacement of the current notion of fishing that would allow the local population to exist. However, since small coastal fishing can result in catches and in higher values, the question of reviewing the same in the context of tax obligations has been raised. The importance of monitoring fishing in the area of national parks, strict reserves and special reserves is assessed, in which provisions of specific nature protection regulations apply. The members of the Committee pointed out the need to strengthen inspection supervision in protected areas, which would contribute to the legal provision for inspection to be carried out in addition to the authorised foundations of the Nature Protection Act and the Fisheries Inspectors as well as authorised persons of the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. The debate also raises the question why, in Article 13(3), the Minister prescribes not only the form, content and manner of the management of the Fisheries Register but also the degree of openness to the public. After the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Marine Fisheries along with the following amendments, and I will not read them completely, but I will say that these are amendments to Articles 35, 40, 42, 100, 104, 105, 105, 107, 108, 109, 110, 114 and 115. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50931	Thank you. Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50932	Mr. President, Secretary of State. At its 45th session on 17 March 2010, the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government considered the proposal for a Law on Maritime Fisheries with the final draft law as an interested working body. The debate supported the adoption of this law with the following opinions, objections and proposals. In the light of the solution proposed in Article 49 of the final proposal for a law laying down the obligation to indicate catches from sports and recreational fisheries and the quantity of catches caught in sport and recreational fisheries, an opinion has been given to provide for more effective control of the sale or delivery of fish caught in sports and recreational fisheries in restaurants. In the light of the solution proposed by Article 67 of the final proposal for a law under which the Minister may prescribe the obligation to record catches by species, quantity and area of catches of fish and other marine organisms in sport and recreational fisheries by persons carrying out that fishing, an opinion has been given to consider the possibility of finding a simpler data collection solution in the light of a large number of persons who, in accordance with the proposed solution, would be obliged to supply the prescribed data, which would make it more transparent and require additional work to monitor the situation in this area. In view of the solution proposed in Article 83 of the final proposal for a law, an opinion was put forward to review the compliance of the provisions of this Article with the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. It is also an opinion that should more clearly define the provision of paragraph 2 of this Article which prescribes that units of local and regional (regional) self-government in cooperation with local self-government units will submit proposals to the Ministry for fisheries regulation in the field of their self-government. The proposer answered several questions and after the debate, the committee unanimously decided to propose the adoption of this law to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50933	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50934	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this bill, which does not mean that we do not have a series of proposals to make any further adjustments before it is adopted. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, this is another one in a series of laws with which we are harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the European Union. This fishing package consists of three laws, one as the secretary of state has already been passed, it is the Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market. Today we are making a law, or today we are discussing the Sea Fisheries Act, but we have colleagues and colleagues waiting for us and the third law that is yet to be drawn up. It's the freshwater fishing law. In fact, only when we have these three laws will we be able to say that we have brought our fishing policy into line with that of the European Union, and therefore, according to us from the HNS Club, it is a great pity that we have not at the same time received the proposal of one, the second and third law, that we have not discussed them together, that we do not always leave tails behind one law, stating that we will solve it with the next, and always in the meantime, there are unnecessary situations. And we know for ourselves what's been going on these last few weeks in the press about various queries or misunderstandings at the expense of these laws. In particular, we now have a situation where that first law on structural support and regulation of the fisheries market that entered into force on 1.1 this year, he calls in his article 10th on the implementation of the measures laid down in the Law on Marine Fisheries and in the Law on freshwater fisheries. We're just bringing this one this week, and the previous one is calling for measures under this law, and we're just making one up, and we're calling for someone who's already applying something that we're just going to see. Furthermore, in the assessment of the necessary resources, the applicant states that additional appropriations in the budget will not be necessary for the purpose of implementing this Maritime Fisheries Act. At the HNS Club, we are not too confident that this will be the case because this law proposes the establishment of a Advisory Council for Fisheries. There are secretaries, there are members, there are meetings, there must probably be meetings, some expenses, equipment, etc. Then the Board of Appeals, the Council of Violations, so a series of bodies that we believe will probably need to be provided with additional funds. Furthermore, it is unusual for the provisions of Article 115 of this Act to determine that, on the date of entry into force of this Act, the Maritime Fisheries Act will cease to apply, with the exception of articles relating to small fishing, as this article is valid until the end of 2014, for almost 5 years, and for Article 73, which is valid until the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. Thanks to this unusual solution, we have a situation to apply at the same time the provisions on small fishing under the old law for almost 5 years, and the provisions on small coastal fishing under the new law, where one of the preconditions for that person to have a valid approval under the old law, therefore the system of old and new laws is highly networked. We further have Mr. Secretary of State asking a series of questions for you and we would ask you clearly to help us, ultimately in your address to answer some of these questions. First of all, we think it would be a good idea for an article 2 where a term is quoted, to enter the concept of biocinosis or biocinosis of the sea, because it later appears in the text. It seems to us that this is an expression that would certainly be the wording. Then Article 11 states that the government can, for the sake of sustainable management of biological wealth, bring plans for the management of biological wealth, that word may bother us, so it can't, when it can, when it has to, why it can't, why it doesn't have to. Article 12(4) provides that the Ministry shall draw up an annual report on the state of fishing. What is the purpose of this report, to which it is submitted and which is the deadline. Article 26(8) lays down the conditions for the granting of privileges after a public call, e.g. include criteria, residence, natural persons, in a coastal city for more than 5 years. We're wondering why exactly five years, if it's some kind of European standard, or if it's some kind of border that the proposer designed himself. Article 37 why, for the purpose of obtaining authorisation for small coastal fisheries, a person must have 60 years of life, and that the total income in the last year per head of the household must not exceed 50% of the budget base per month. The 60 years we've been tortured. A man who is 53 years old, who is not employed, might not also have the right to such a single permit if he might have helped in an existential sense. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are not clear from the meaning of this article, and with regard to whether they have the right to purchase a long-term licence for sport fishing or perhaps even a year. In this article, we believe that only members of the National Union can do so. Article 59(1) provides that a fishing monitoring centre is to be established for the purpose of implementing a vessel surveillance and monitoring system in the Ministry. Two remarks. That word monitoring, I don't know if we can replace it with an unaccounted for system for monitoring, monitoring, whatever you want, monitoring is not exactly some kind of call Croatian word, and we think we can already make an intervention there, and on the other hand, with regard to the very role of the centre which is with the employees, which is with the equipment, which is with the authority of that centre. We practically don't know from the bill, and we can't be much smarter, so please explain. Article 96(3) provides that a complaint to the Board of Appeal may be made against a decision taken by a senior inspector. Paragraph 3 states that this commission has at least three members appointed by the minister, we are interested in where these members of the commission will be, are employees of the ministry that is trained to prepare them and when and within what time the minister will appoint them. That's not what it says. Article 104 of the Minister shall appoint a Council for Infringements. The same question, the expert prepares, when, the deadline, and the rest. What we must commend you, Mr. Secretary of State and Proposer, is that you have really consulted all relevant partners and fishermen and sports fishermen, recreationals, that's good, that's good and that's how it should be done. I repeat, we will support in the HNS this bill, we believe that there are still some things you can explain to us or build up until the day we adopt this law. I would especially like to thank you colleagues from the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, I think that you have done a good job, so you should do the parent committees, very thoroughly pass the bill proposals, present a number of amendments, if there are, this time it was the case, a few weeks have been delayed by this debate based on your demands, we see that the proposer has accepted these proposals which are good, and here with 12 amendments that you have made and a series of other proposals will undoubtedly be much better than in the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50935	Thank you. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50936	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Fishing in Croatia plays a very important socio-economic role, enabling employment on islands, coastal areas, especially in rural areas. Except for tuna growing recently in Croatia, the overall share of fishing in GDP is less than 1%. The fundamental principles of the development of Croatian fisheries are its sustainability based on interdependence, its three pillars, meaning economic development, social justice of environmental protection, as well as improved governance. Fishing is one of our rare economic branches in which exports are larger than imports, Croatia has been exporting about $30,000 million a year worth of fish worth about $160 million, and it has also imported about 50,000 tonnes worth of $100 million. The export of fish accounts for 15% of the exports of our agricultural and food products. In 2009, the fishing fleet caught a record 50,000 tonnes of tiny blue fish, which is 7 thousand tonnes more than in the previous 2008 and close to 7,000 tonnes of white fish, which is 2,000 tonnes more than in 2008. It is also a fact that Croatia does not have a satisfactory amount of white fish which could compete more seriously on the demanding European market covered by the offer from around the world, but our fish has an exceptional quality to find all the quantities offered easily in the EU. In the last few years on our coast and islands, there have been many plants for processing, salting, fileting and marinating fish from small crafts to large plants. All these facilities need to find new and effective product quality management activities including ISO and HasAP systems. This should increase the direction of producers towards a stable and profitable market, and it is very important to transfer knowledge on the management of economic and financial analyses and their application in the sale of products and marketing. Croatia has about 300 large fishing boats, mostly small-scale bluefish, about 700 smaller boats and 3,000 registered fishermen. According to some studies, the possibility of annual fishing for small blue fish in our part of the Adriatic is about 200 thousand tonnes, which means that Croatian fishermen are now taking about 20% of that amount out of the sea now. This is encouraging information for all those who have invested considerable money in the construction of new boats for fishing, but also for those who have built or built fish processing facilities. As part of the state programme of restoration and modernisation of the fishing fleet, with the state support of 30% of the grants, 15 new large fishing vessels have been built from tuna hunters to large swimmers and wagons. The average fish consumption per capita in Croatia barely reaches 10 kg, well below the European average. The reason is also the lack of a well-organised market and a lack of coastal infrastructure with cooling, freezing and storage facilities. This ultimately results in higher prices of fish in retail. It is also a fact that most of the fish farms are small dimensions, and only a few of them borrow the appropriate storage, cooling and freezing rooms, which further restricts access to the fresh and high-quality fish market. The main objective of the adoption of the new Maritime Fisheries Act is to set up a legal framework for the adoption and implementation of the provisions and measures of the EU Common Fisheries Policy, which will allow for the responsible and sustainable exploitation of living resources in an environmentally balanced and economically and socially justified way through measures to protect, preserve and restore resources and eco-systems. At the same time, it will contribute to the sustainability and development of coastal and island communities. In order to protect biological wealth, the law lays down the basis for the adoption of a series of technical measures to regulate fishing and mariculuture, the protection of certain areas of the fishing sea and specific habitats and introduces measures to prevent sea pollution and endanger biological resources of the sea. The law also introduces the concept of the capacity of the fishing fleet and sets out a legal framework for the adoption of measures which are regulated in order to manage the activities of the fishing fleet in a sustainable manner. This mechanism is an integral part of the European fisheries policy, and so far it has not been legally regulated in the Republic of Croatia. The management of fishing fleet registers shall be subject to registration of all vessels in economic and small coastal fisheries and aquaculture. A basis shall be provided for the satellite monitoring system of the vessel and the establishment of the fishing monitoring centre and shall be laid down for reporting on the position of the vessel as a system which will be of great assistance to the inspection services at sea. These are more important newspapers compared to the existing legal framework, and are one of the key obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the framework of international organisations and the EU accession process. The method of keeping records of catches, landings, overlapping and storage of fish shall be prescribed. the conditions for the first sale of fish and other marine organisms and the format and manner of keeping and delivering records shall be prescribed. This will allow cross-checking of data, which will significantly reduce the grey market. In a new way, the law prescribes inspection supervision, and one of the major newspapers is the general harmonisation of procedures and reporting for all inspection services that carry out inspection controls under this law. This approach can ensure maximum efficiency and reduce the cost of supervision which Croatian coastal conditions can be of great importance in the future taking on commitments from full EU membership. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50937	Thank you. SDP advocates' club, Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50938	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We were expecting, at the SDP club, when we received this proposal of the Law on Marine Fisheries, and according to all the promises when the elections, whether local or national, are pruning promises in our maritime orientation about blue transfer, about Croatia's orientation and the special attention that the authorities must give to fishermen, fishermen and peasants. So then we expected that at least, such a bill would not be below that minimum you booked for golf courses where the first point says that the golf course is of national interest. So we expected that in the first article of this bill it would stand. That it will be prescribed exactly and that commitment which seems to only be reserved from election to election. That sea fishing, according to our history, our position will be on that trail right now. On the trail of those promises. But it looks like it's reserved for election only. In our neighborhood, in our coast, on our islands where fishes have always been, where fish have been fed, these people have always lived hard. Then the proverb was, "In the fisherman's wet pants, he doesn't know what he's going to do for dinner." What's the fate of fishing? What is the fate of the Croatian fisherman? Namely, there is no doubt that he and the sailor eats bread with seven crusts. Fisheries is in an uninvited situation today. But why is it so when fishing is one exceptional and highly productive branch which in all its segments has raised production unlike others. And that's where the state's sensibility has to be special. This bill of law he has one general remark, that it was written in a meta-language. It's not a language for his main addressees fishermen. He's difficult for lawyers to digest in the sense that it's hard to read all the way. He was written in this bureaucratic language as spoken in the European Union. We want to be a member of the European Union as soon as possible, but if we are doing our job for the sake of improving, above all, our own citizens, then we can be critical of that European Union, not subjective. And if any policy of the European Union is missed, then it's missed right in fishing. It's her fishing policy. There is no doubt that the countries of the European Union have devastated and devastationed their own sea, and now we should adapt in a normative sense to the countries of the European Union and their regulations that seek new ways and are critical of what it has done to its own fish fund. So, I repeat, on behalf of the SDP club, that fishing for us must be done by the state, I think there is time to declare it because it does not remain at the level of a mere declaration if we have exactly one of the first articles of this very provision, that fishing must be a production branch of national interest. So, I repeat, we are not because of our territory that we rule, but rather for financial reasons, and I repeat for cultural and social reasons. This economic branch has been punished in some way. Although for 20 years, the people who have been working in that branch are the biggest exporters. It's the only branch I repeat that is in difficult times, and the easy ones here have never been, and especially in these crises, raised their production. The aim that we want to achieve by this bill, as we have heard not only today in the opening words of the Secretary of State, but otherwise when this bill was presented, is to put together, above all, an important newspaper, the territory of the Croatian part of the Adriatic Sea wants to be classified into certain management zones, and that means the demarcation for the fishing area. Therefore, the provisions of the period for allowable fishing, i.e. fishing for each fish species, but also in particular, are also defined by the gears which allow the catch of a particular species and for a certain period of time. First of all, though, we should be in this area, and Australia should be the one who leads an excellent fishing policy to the satisfaction of its fishermen. It should be our goal for people working in fishing to be craftsmen, whether their companies are just surviving in fishing and to see that survival for themselves and their families, contributing then to the overall development of the Republic of Croatia. For the first time, the fishing support segment sets out from those general parts of agriculture. And that's what we think is good, and the FISH supports it. However, due to the threat of the fish fund in the world, hunting is often also debated on smaller quotas that can be caught. We also have great opportunities here and surely this is one of our choices is mariculture. Last year she gave only 11 thousand 680 tonnes of fish, but at 6 thousand and 200km of coast today's cultivation of such a species is indeed recorded in promiscuity. And it's not good and it needs to be changed. As the well-known Ceh fisherman has sought, a good part of it has been adopted, but it can not only be part of this law, but also of a new and more modern National Fisheries Strategy. First of all, in some way and units of local self-government, whether these are municipalities, whether it is the cities of coerced, and the legal part of how in their spatial plans to determine ports, for the uninterrupted part of exactly and remonts, shipyards for fishing vessels, places to hand over fish and clams, and therefore to cover it in units of local self-government. We see that there are certain indications, but we don't know what part of it is mandatory. I think there are some standards in that sense that we at the SDP club think we should explain them. Many colleagues who will speak individually from their territory will draw special attention to these important provisions. It is very important that only the ministry ensure precisely the functioning of, precisely, such places for fish, to resolve the status in all these spatial plans and without the ministry itself, it will not be possible in one whole way. It is known that the Fisherman's Ceh has requested that fishermen who sell their fish right up to 50 tonnes, or 50 kg, or to a value of up to a thousand kuna be delayed to submit a report on the first handover of the fish. Also, this small coastal fishing institute that was at first controversial, I don't know who it bothered to respect that social status. We think there's still room in this time of unemployment, but equally the survival of our people on the coast, first of all on the islands, to loosen these criteria that are in some way exactly and therefore the population itself has the ministry as a pronoun. But we think there's still more space in there just leading this social but also cultural moment on our islands. There is no doubt that precisely because of a small amount of time, you better say the difficulties with time that the fisheries negotiations and the chapter did not go the way they might have gone. And given such a significant branch as fishing in the Republic of Croatia. The president of the Association of Fisheries and Fish Processing in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Miro Kucic, estimated that fishing, although the economic branch says of national importance, it was precisely in an invisible position, as it estimated to be one of the most difficult positions in the last 30 years. It believes that fishermen simply must not and will not agree to a linear reduction of incentives but rather that each sector should be observed separately and separately. In particular, he pointed out that fishing incentives are exactly the most honest way to encourage production and it would be a real shame to take away linearly as stated for other branches. It should be pointed out here that in these difficult moments, Istrian fishermen first saw the importance of the moment, especially at these moments, of more quality association. Even the European Union draws attention to this. So organization of fishermen, association with associations, cooperatives, and so that they would be stronger not only in the regulation but in their daily work. Now here's the government talking about associations, cooperatives, in general, in words that have that hated formerly word for this authority, comrade. So they saw that without cooperation in many areas, especially in fishing and agriculture, little can be achieved. But when did it only occur to us, or to you rulers? When the property of the cooperatives was kidnapped, so now that such cooperatives were better said those places were privatized, it was now seen that without cooperatives they could not, when practically their property was taken from the cooperatives. The crisis that hit the world market has hit fishermen as well. Namely, the price fell everywhere, only in Croatia did we not notice if some product is cheap for 5 to 10 June we consider it to be a big cheaping. In the world on the world market that then hit our fishermen, the price of tuna fell by 32%, the price of small tuna by 42%. That's why they found themselves in a very, very unpredictable situation and those who had just saved Croatian fishermen because they were the first to buy out tiny blue fish. Today they are in a very difficult situation, first of all because of what the minister has promised to help them. Well, that's not help, that's their obligation. No subsidies have been paid for the last quarter last year. They're promised it'll only be at 4 months. Our fishermen have been burdened with capital investments in the fishing fleet. The state has not fulfilled its share so that they are burdened. They never produced again, never exported and were never in a difficult situation. The state tricked them here because she didn't pay what she was supposed to pay. I'd still like to make a note about ZERP. We didn't forget that, remember Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50939	Bring the hearing to an end. I remember, but it's the end of the debate. Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50940	That's what your colleague was talking about, the weird beak man. I'll bring it to an end, but let's not forget that the state gave up, so in 2004, that law was supposed to come into force, but here...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50941	Please bring the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50942	A secret contract has been signed where we give up ZERP for the member states of the European Union...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50943	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50944	In particular, this is how the Italians take away our annual... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50945	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable MPs have run out of time. Thank you very much. There are no secret signatures or secret contracts No, there isn't. [[Intruder: There is, there is.]] It's just for you. We're moving on with the club debate. And now it's on behalf of the HSS club, the distinguished representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50946	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, we can say that we advocate the adoption of this law because we believe it brings a number of quality solutions to sea fishing. As we all know, Croatia is getting closer and closer to the standards of the European Union as well as to the chapter that regulates this area, concrete fisheries. As the European Union has a common fisheries policy, Croatia should also adapt its regulation to this common policy because the long-term objectives of Croatian fisheries policy are consistent with those of the European Union's common fisheries policy. In this respect, we voted in 2009 for the adoption of the Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market, and here we are now passing a new Marine Fisheries Act that we believe will even better regulate our fishing sector and establish the position of Croatian fisheries in the framework of the European Union. This law will allow responsible and sustainable exploitation of marine resources through the required measures for the protection, conservation and restoration of resources and ecosystems, while at the same time taking care of the sustainability of fisheries and fishing activities. This law lays down the basis for the adoption of a series of regulations for the purpose of more detailed regulation of fisheries and maricculture and introduces measures to prevent pollution of the sea and the threat of marine biological resources. This law also defines for the first time the composition of satellite monitoring of fishing vessels and the establishment of a fishing monitoring centre, which will allow the current position of fishing vessels to be seen on the Ministry's screen. The management and delivery of mandatory catch records, landing and storage of fish shall be prescribed. The conditions of the first sale of fish and the manner and form of keeping records of the fish sold shall also be prescribed. All these measures aim to reduce the grey market in fisheries and, of course, to increase consumer safety and protection. In particular, Chapter 1 of this Act defines measures for the management of the fleet which are now not contained in the applicable law. The management of fishing fleet registers is prescribed and the concept of fishing fleet capacity is introduced, all in order to improve the quality of management of the total activities of the same fishing fleet. As we know, one of the criteria for the closure of Chapter 13, the fisheries chapters in the negotiating process is also to define the supervision and control of the provisions of this law and to prescribe. A prescribed process of reporting and procedures shall be introduced for all control actors, in particular fishing inspections, coast guard and maritime police, which shall ensure an effective and efficient control system. We must also note that fishing, our fishing inspection has only three ships available, stationed in Pula, Zadar and Vis which we think is too small, and we hope that this number will soon increase. I am aware that the proposal of this law has long and thoroughly been discussed, on committees involving both scientists and the most important representatives of the fishing sector, both economic fishermen and sports fishermen, representatives from the mariculture sector, and fishing cooperatives from all resolution ministries, we have heard today and from this pay phone that this is for every praise, so on behalf of the HSS Club, I welcome such a way before the adoption, such a debate before the law is passed. It is also known to all of us here that there have been some disagreements with sports fishermen who have been dissatisfied with the specific proposals of the provisions of this law, but we have heard here and from the Secretary of State that these differences have been settled by agreement and I believe that sports fishermen will also be satisfied after this law is passed. And therefore, after all the legislation in question, the HSS Club considers that its adoption is welcome and will contribute to a better quality and efficient management of marine fisheries, the protection of renewable biological wealth of the sea, the monitoring of roles and cultivation, and a better structure of supervision and inspections, and I will also finally welcome all the amendments given by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, and as we have heard only the Ministry will accept these amendments and will accept them. The last sentence of the HSS club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50947	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Honorable Tonci Bozanić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50948	Here's the Honorable Vice President, I'd like a brief review of what's been said about the objections of the Croatian People's Party club. Therefore, as regards the adoption of the Law on freshwater fisheries, I would have to say that the Act on freshwater fisheries is not part of the European Union's single fisheries policy, except in the part of farming and transport, which has already been adopted by this law on structural support and regulation of the market. However, the Act on freshwater fishing is in the adoption phase, and I hope that it will be passed by the end of this year. As regards the assumption that the remarks of the word Government can, or the minister, therefore, often use those words in terms of possibilities in the laws, but I must stress that this law provides for therefore and advisory councils to meet, so that they will discuss all that is important, which will consist of all the relevant representatives of the sector, so the council is that, in agreement with the ministry, they will set priorities, so if the law leaves the possibility to further define certain areas I would say areas, then by the basis of such initiatives, the minister will certainly be able to, that he will certainly use such a possibility, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As for the monitoring center, it is not described any closer because it is an integral part of the fisheries management. It is also referred to as the Council for Infringements where no expert preparation is defined, etc., but I must stress that the Ministry is laying down a regulation on internal order and that these rules will be set closer to the conditions that members of that council must meet. As regards the objections made by Mrs Ingrid Antičević in front of the SDP club regarding the non-declaration of national interest in the provisions of this law, I must say that the area of fishing as such is highlighted in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and may not need to be particularly highlighted in this law, which is already clearly highlighted in the Constitution. And as for the language of the law, I must truly admit that the area of fishing is one specific area, one specific area which is a lot of different specific definitions and I do not wonder what in some parts of it is not easy to understand. But I think, since let's just say I know this problem well, I don't think that often and in simpler language certain things could have been written differently. On the note that the European Union has devastated its resources, I must say on the basis of what I have often found to be true, but by accepting the legal property of the European Union, or by harmonising with their common fisheries policy, we can be stricter than what the European Union has set out as mandatory common ground, so no one defends Croatia from making stricter rules, and I must stress that even at this point we have stricter regulation on fisheries regulation than the European Union does. As far as fishing ports are concerned, I point out once again that this law has made it possible for the counties, so the units of the regional self-government that they can edit this problem through their county port administrations, and when we talk about the problem in which Croatian fisheries are now located, I would say that this crisis has not gone beyond the fisheries sector, and the price of tuna in the Japanese market has fallen, what is then reflected on the possibility of small blue fish breeders who are actually needed to eat tuna, so farmers are also a part of the market for small blue fish. So, one thing is connected to the other, and I have to say that a few days ago we are at a joint meeting in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce where the representatives and Croatian Chamber of Commerce were, therefore, the fishermen and representatives of the trade union, Mr Cobankovic, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, so we have reached one agreement in which to alleviate this existing situation. This agreement has been accepted and here I hope that at least part of it will be able to amortise this emerging state. As for the payment of incentives, it goes to some kind of over time, perhaps with a little delay, but here I would say it is not questionable, at least not in that part as agreed with the representatives of the sector. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50949	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50950	It is not true that Mr. Secretary of State that it is enough to mention fishing in the Constitution and that it is therefore protected so it should not be mentioned because we, in fact, in 2007, had a guarantee that until May 1, 2008, the full application of the ZERP would take place, even though the Constitution theoretically defends fishing did not occur. I note that all EU members have signed the Charter of the United Nations, which gives all countries the sovereign right to declare the belt. In addition, the European Commission has advised its members to extend their jurisdiction to 12 miles to better manage, etc. It simply defends Croatia. And simply Croatia was prevented from doing so. So much I can say that practice does not correspond to what is here the Constitution, perhaps at a theoretical level or a legislative level, wants to place as a national interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50951	Thank you. We have finished the debate by clubs, we are moving on to an individual debate and the first is the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50952	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So today we're actually talking about the Fisheries Act, which is a production branch of national interest. I would not talk about the law, but today I will talk about the remarks I received from my fellow citizens in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, that is, from sports fishermen, and also from the majority of fishermen. In spite of Mr. Secretary of State's opening statement, however, he said that a compromise was agreed with sports fishermen, I would still make at least two remarks that they had given me. They think this law is unwarranted, actually that... Some new restrictions on sports fishing under the pretext of harmonising with the EU because, according to comparison with the current Croatian Maritime Fisheries Act, our law is already fully in line with European law in the segment of sport fishing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, they say, it is more restrictive, therefore stricter, in terms of the conservation of fish species and other marine organisms. They also believe that the Croatian Federation for Sports Fishing at Sea, which has over 30,000 members, should be involved in the adoption of all future sublaws of the Marine Fisheries Act. It is also another one of their proposals, which is that, in accordance with the basic principle of the proposal of the Marine Fisheries Act, Article. Paragraph 3 of the Decision, i.e. provisions in this law, must be made on the basis of scientific and professional indicators. Therefore, proposals for specific fisheries regulation in certain areas of the ministry could only be submitted by scientific institutions on the basis of scientific research. They therefore propose to delete point 2 in Article 2. 83. However, as you have stated that you have reached a compromise, I hope then that you have already included these remarks in this law. Another thing I would like to say is that I personally welcome all initiatives towards protection and sustainable development. They also welcome the surety of a fisherman who met with the HGK. In fact, the status of the reserve should be tempered by them because it would actually create conditions to encourage the development of small entrepreneurship and craftsmanship. In this way, it would also reduce the abuse of some illegal activities that are actually uncontrollable. Therefore, the representatives I am talking about, or who I am talking about, are certain to control the law, but to actually see their existence in such liberalisation. In fact, we are aware that every island or island group is so beautiful that everyone has the elements actually for permanent full protection. However, in this way we cannot then and in this way show that we are a land that can also live on the sea. I wonder what happened to the people whose income is the only source? So people are actually this way, the fishermen are completely decapitated because we're wondering which other, replacement solution is? It is a prerequisite for the sustainable development of this southern Croatian island area. According to the report, this is also one of the indicators that the legislator is very often moving away from the natural characteristics of the area from its historical heritage and is, in fact, taking a unilateral view of this problem. These are people who have invested in buying ships, nets, in education. Thus, implementation of such a law actually reduces the conditions for sustainable development, i.e. the development of small entrepreneurship in this area. Today, ZERP is actually mentioned, we gave up in 2004, gave up ZERP, huge areas were lost, Italians are increasingly competitive, but very often they are not punished enough, and our fishermen are being punished. Therefore, they are actually bitter because in their own sea, in their own country they feel like citizens of the second order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50953	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50954	Your colleagues mentioned ZERP is indeed tragic that in 2004, the government led by HDZ de facto abolished what the government adopted in 2003 and that ZERP had never applied. I do not think Croatia should go below the European Union Directive No. In 2371, this Directive defines that the host country determines the maximum catch of fish and, within that part, it can catch the surpluses that remain for other countries, with compensation, or payment. If we don't protect ourselves, and these looks on the outside won't protect us by taking care of this case of Italian interests, then I don't know who will protect us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50955	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50956	Thank you very much. Here is a fellow Marine we are all aware that this particular problem reduces the area where our citizens can excavate. And if we mention the Italians, today we mentioned them on a few occasions, they steal about 300 million euros from us in the catch, which they essentially take away and they're not punished for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50957	Thank you. It's our guest, Goran Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Next at work, distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50958	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here is when we talk about the Law on Marine Fisheries I want to present this segment first through the review of the activities of marine fisheries in the Republic of Croatia for a short time, but also to Zadar County as a leader in concessioning, but also through economic indicators of fishing of the Republic of Croatia and Zadar County. The catch of fish here I will use the data for 2008 was 48 thousand 976 tonnes, of which 42,000 688 tonnes of blue fish, 4 thousand 831 white and 2 thousand 820 others. It is the year, which is why I took it as an example, that is the year when the Republic of Croatia reached catch of pre-war quantities. Since 1998, there has been an increase in catches of blue fish and small blue fish, almost twice as much as the demand for salt incubation has caused a constant increase in fishing. Salt fish are almost entirely exported to Italy, slightly less to Spain, and whitefish fishing is almost the same during that period. The number of fishermen in economic fishing is somewhere around 3,000, 700 and the number of fishing vessels around 3,000, 800, and they are on the rise. The gross added value of fishing activity according to the available data from the National Statistics Institute since 2001 is growing from 284.7 million kuna to 410.6 million kuna in 2004. In 2007, fishing has 855 million total income, 801 million kuna total expenditure and about 70 million kuna before tax. The number of fishing employees is slightly less than 2,000. The balance sheet for 2000 to 2008 shows a surplus in this activity ranging from $300,000 to a maximum of 59 million in 2006. I would like to point out that fishing is one of the few branches that has a constant surplus in the trade as well as data for the past year. As far as Zadar County is concerned, fishing is the traditional activity of our coast and island, but it is also the source of existence for a large part of the coastal and island population. I would like to remind you that the first breeding of the defences and herdsmen took place right in Zadar, tuna farming also in Zadar, and that over 80% of the salting capacity of the incun is right in the Zadar County area, and also the largest fishing industry with about 850 employees are in the area of this county. Also in Zadar County, we have about 540 fishermen who trade and business about 2,000 600 small fishermen and about 2,000 ships of which only 90 more than 15 meters, and the number of recreational fishermen is about 650 and sports according to estimates between 1,000 and 2,000. The most represented tools in the economic fishing of Zadar County are the surrounding nets of swimmers,... the drawback nets of brakes, and the nets of stairways. The catch in this county represents 35% of the total role in the Republic of Croatia and the most significant types of catches are just heart and incun which are the basis for the processing industry as well as for tuna farming. Economic recovery and breeding are carried out according to the FINA's 60 companies that submitted financial reports for 2008. As regards the financial indicators of fishing in Zadar County, it is worth mentioning for 2008 427.8 million kuna of total income and around 20 million kuna of net profits, and somewhere around 800 persons employed in fisheries. In 1998, only 273 people, 33 companies and 82 million kunas were employed in this segment. So the number of companies doubled, the number of employees almost three times higher, and total revenues increased more than five times. This speaks of the importance of this economic branch for our county as well as for the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Fishing accounts for 13% of total exports of Zadar County and processing and conservation of additional 14%. So 27% of exports are going to fish. It should be pointed out that state measures to encourage the construction of the fleet have led with some imports of ships to a satisfactory capacity in swimmers, i.e. in a fleet of larger vessels for the fishing of bluefish. It means they're strong enough. In 2008, the Ministry helped the fisheries sector with significant resources, which through direct incentives, through the price of blue diesel, with the aim of making Croatian fishermen competitive by joining the European Union co-financed both ship insurance and registrations. This resulted in the team that fishing has significant results in exports in 2009, but the consequences of this are important processing plants, which means that this activity attracts investment. I will only mention Ostre in Stnkovci, which is the largest and most modern drive of that kind in the European Union. However, there are problems in fishing that fishermen warned about at their 14th meeting in Pag last year, and these are mentioned here by the adoption of a new strategy, the problem of the cold chain, the landing sites, the regulation of the small coastal fisheries institution, but also by increasing the efficiency of fish traffic control, etc. Here are the problems that the fishermen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have warned about, together with them, to address the adoption of legislation, and the Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market that this Parliament adopted last year, which allows for the financing of adjustments in cases where necessary, and some of these problems are addressed by this Maritime Fisheries Act. I would like to emphasise, and it has already been mentioned that such important documents have been brought in partnership with all those who mean something in fishing, primarily fishermen, as well as sports and recreational fishermen and scientific institutions. It is precisely this partner or participatory approach to the adoption and adoption of resource management measures that is one of the fundamental elements of the common fisheries policy. I therefore believe that this bill is good, along with this amendment that the Secretary of State has said to adopt, that it regulates all these problems that the fishermen have spoken of quite well. We know that we need and want to bring legislation into line with the European Union, but we need to protect interests in the first order of the Republic of Croatia, as well as Croatian fisheries. However, we have no right not to know that in the field of many members who are in the system of the common fisheries policy, and not since yesterday, the fishing seas have been significantly poored. Italian part of the Adriatic, cod in the North Sea, Spain etc. We need to be aware that we have to be, and this law allows us to be, we need to be stricter, the law allows us to do so. However, our fishermen have been able to keep it safe for centuries, they knew it themselves, they will do it in the future and it is a guarantee that this law in that part will be implemented properly. So, due to the fact that fishing is the traditional activity of our coast and island and the source of existence for a large part of the coastal and island population, I hold that the order provided by this law, of course with the control of the implementation of the same, and which are the fishermen themselves and the fishermen themselves, with all the measures that have been made so far means infrastructure, incentives and everything that has been in the function of raising competitiveness, will most correspond to just fishermen. This is why, with the proposed amendments, I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50959	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 13 hours and 15 minutes. We have two replicas. First, she's a respected representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50960	Mr. Vice President. In her presentation, the colleague spoke about sports and recreational fishing, so I would like to say in that sense that it is a good thing that the secretary of state is also a compromise with the sport fishermen. But I would also like to point out the article 53 relating to fishing tourism, and I hope that this fishing tourism within the meaning of this law really involves all the activities carried out by the authorisation holders of economic fisheries. I also hope that, in part of Article 44 where you are talking about the right to purchase an annual licence for sport fishing, only members of the National Sports Fisheries Union at the sea of the Republic of Croatia have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. I think it is very important to stress this, especially given the numbers the colleague said about her county, which is between 1500 and 2000 sports fishermen and 650 recreational ones. Then we can imagine how many of them are in the entire coastal area. It is a good thing that the views of the Czech fishermen have been respected, but it is also good to hear that we primarily protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia and our citizens, and then, of course, what we were obliged to comply with the laws of the European Union. And I am convinced that the traditional activity of our coast is certainly in favor of this kind of law, and we were otherwise aware of how to guard our coast and how to protect our fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50961	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50962	Here I have mentioned exactly that cooperation and that is where we are means I am the way the law is passed, I am the way the law is already kind of adapted to Europe. I certainly welcome the reactions of all those to whom this applies because that's good. There was something to be heard from both sports fishermen and from all the alliances to which this applies. The proposals were at first maybe, they went out into the streets instead of sitting down and getting rid of it. It has returned to talk to institutions that exist and have been prepared, so no moment has the Ministry closed the door for talks on issues that torture sports fishermen, recruiters and small fishermen and everything else. So, they weren't closed doors, it was open and I need to work it out and I welcome certainly all those and negotiators and everything that happened in this proposal, which is that this deadline has been extended to leave still room for many, it's a social component, many that can still hunt in limited quantities in the same way and in the same way as they've hunted so far. But I wanted colleagues, it's a good model that laws are passed on, so I pointed out this part in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50963	And another replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50964	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the distinguished colleague Marinovic spoke in part of the reconstruction and construction of the fishing fleet about the achievement of the project designed by the Croatian government. I'd like to add a few words regarding the model itself. In late 2005, the Croatian Government designed a project to restore and modernise Croatia's fishing fleet in a way that would allow Croatian fishermen to start fishing in the outside fishing sea in most parts of the region than was the case at the time, since Croatian fishermen' tools were almost unprepared for Croatian fishermen to be able to fish more in ZERP. And in this way, the project was designed to enable Croatian fishermen interested in the construction of fishing vessels, larger fishing vessels, with only 10% of their own resources to go into the construction of the fleet, the remaining 90% were secured in two ways. The first way is that the state of Croatia through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has enabled 30% of the grants in such a way that 10% of the Ministry of Agriculture, 10% of the Ministry of Economy, 10% of the resources of the Ministry of the Sea, and the remaining 60% to the full amount of the ship's value is financed with very favourable loans from the Croatian Bank for Owens and Development and with very low interest. This way, up to today, there is an interest in the construction of 44 ships, of which 20 were built, 27 were built, and I believe that with this project it was very helpful for Croatian fishermen to direct the fishing effort towards ZERP and thus become competitors on the Adriatic, in law, so here is a respected colleague, in this sense I wanted to complement you to say that this project of the Croatian Government has been very helpful to Croatian fishermen.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50965	Thank you. And that would end my morning session, we'll continue at 3:00, and I wish you all a good time. Thank you very much. We'll continue the afternoon session. An individual debate like I announced. The first is the distinguished representative of Tanja Vrbat, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50967	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives and just arrived representatives of the government, at the last minute, the timing is excellent. In this afternoon's part, too, is the proposal for a Marine Fisheries Act which primarily refers to the harmonisation of our legislation with the acquis of the EU and the creation of a prerequisite for our common European policy in this area. The bill is quite comprehensive and covers a lot of segments, from the implementation of fishing, the protection of the fish fund and the sea, and a whole series of very strict criminal provisions for the violation of what is provided for in this Act for natural and legal persons. We know that the proposal is in line with many fishing associations, the majority of fishermen, sports fishermen and other entities involved in fishing and that many compromises have been reached. No one is fully satisfied, but given some announced and submitted amendments, this bill is probably what the art of possible is saying. I'm going to try to point out, therefore, only the short pieces that I think are not good enough and that they are somewhat controversial. First of all, this refers to, I note that I come from a fishing town on the Istrian coast and I meet with fishermen daily and I carry some of their skeptics. First of all, it refers to the introduction of small coastal fishing as a fishing Sui Genis, a new species, between sports and economic as I understand it. I'd say it's some kind of social fishing. However, I find it extremely controversial that approval for such a kind of fishing will only be granted to persons of 60 years of age. Why, for example, should unemployed citizens of younger age not be able to do so properly? I believe that this provision is contrary to the Law on Discrimination and that it discriminates against our citizens and citizens according to age. Furthermore, if, for example, we have a pensioner who is fishing and selling what he has caught for this intended place for end-users as prescribed by the law in order to probably fix his home budget he must have the approval, so I think these people are most interested in what the cost of issuing such approvals is? How much is the cost and where are these tests taken to obtain human authorisation and to demonstrate human capacity to carry out such a kind of fishing? And what is this reporting every two months that has to be sent and to whom? I personally believe that this procedure is extremely and extremely selective, and I very much doubt that this will work in practice. I don't know who's gonna take all those reports off the field and who's gonna write who caught three kilos of aspara, two bran and one arbun or a shrimp on that day? Who's gonna record all this and who's gonna take it all there? Because if he doesn't send such reports, that fisherman, then his approval will be revoked. Where will the forms for this reporting be obtained? Will this little coastal fisherman have more administrative costs and jobs than he'll make if he sells any fish? Another aspect. The authorisation must contain the number and type of gears on board a fishing vessel which is in principle fine, however, any change must be entered in the authorisation. Does this mean that when buying any new tools, I need to report urgently to the Ministry I have a new agenda or do I not know the new network? There's so much about that part. I would also like to look further at this debate and point out that I am pleased with this part of sports fishing at sea. I am pleased to meet you and provide special conditions for the maintenance of sports competitions in sport fishing at sea and underwater fishing. It's a sport that's very practical on our coast that's a little bit of talky and know-it-all. That deals with a large number of our fellow citizens, especially young people. Sports fishing plays an extremely important role in the education of our young and children about the sea and its wealth. Sports fishermen participate in a whole series of actions to protect nature and fish younger, but also to clean the submarines through their sports clubs mainly with the support of the Croatian Sports Fishing Association at sea. It is not on renegade or emphasized, this occasion, and the role sports fishermen play in promoting our country and its beauty abroad. Croatian sports fishermen participate in numerous competitions abroad and record great successes in order to get gold and other medals. It is certainly good that this law left the Croatian Sports Fishing Union at sea with the possibility that it could benefit from selling licenses for sport fishing so that it could continue to co-finance the sport activities of our successful competitors. But I'm sorry that in this law there are no, now the second subject, the second segment of the law, are not more detailed, both deadlines and terms themselves. That's what he's got most of his field remarks on. About deadlines and terms of adoption of various regulations that will have to be passed by the competent ministry because this is just a skeleton on which different rules and sublegal acts will then be adopted by so-called. the meat from which the costs and deadlines of carrying out all the permits prescribed here will be seen. In the end, I want to say that this is all a good law, but it does not get into the essence of the problem, in my opinion, and this is the implementation of these rules relating to fisheries in the territory of the entire aquarium of the Republic of Croatia. Because it is absurd to force a pensioner to feed his grandchildren or family into fishing, to send monthly reports of his catch when we know that fish exchanges and other marine organisms with European Italian neighbours are taking place on a daily basis on the Croatian coast. Our ship comes to the high seas, meets with Italian colleagues, they fish them, these are their money, and the matter is over. Or even better these blue diesels, which in Italy is much cheaper, or much more subsidized than we are. You have to say they close their eyes and sell their fingers because they fight and then they just get fresh into the bags, tie to the floaters, the Italian boat comes and picks them up like mushrooms. It's public secrets spoken in the coast. And these are the main problems to be solved and di Croatia loses not only its marine and natural wealth but also great money. There are ways of paying among those in the high seas already agreed among fellow fishermen internationally. It's public secrets and real problems regarding fishing, not whether someone caught 5 or 6 kilos of fish, 3 frats or 2 shrimps. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50968	Thank you. It's the honorary representative of Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50969	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am personally pleased to put in order what is said to the maximum and this proposal of the Marine Fisheries Act is particularly pleased, as my colleague mentioned about these fishing tourism and everything like that since fishing tourism itself will give an additional dimension. We are constantly complaining that there are not enough trails in tourism except for the accommodation of the sun, so here is the particular reference to fishing tourism, but bringing fishing tourism into order as it should be. Because it's been known to him by now that he's being conducted in a way that I'm not going to say in black, but that he's become safe. In this way, it is put into order and it is possible that in one official way if we can say that one dimension will finally be given to it and that tourism has another additional satisfaction that it has been given the possibility to deal with fishing tourism, which will give one on the whole of the Adriatic, especially on the islands an additional possibility when, in certain times, the owners of fishing gears and boats themselves do not go or do not want to go fishing. They may pay more for this fishing tourism themselves during the tourist season. The draft law therefore lays down the long-term objectives of Croatian fisheries policy in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy of the European Union. But I'm glad to hear that you've really exhausted the possibilities of all the negotiations and talks and consent in some way that you've had in conversation with all the fishing horses. And that in this way this is practically I can say purified but in accordance with the European Union law which will probably be the closest one to be able to bring our wishes and wishes closer not only to us here in the Parliament, but especially to those to whom it is most important, and that is what it means to the fishermen and to all those along the coast that are very important. This law will allow for the most important responsible and sustainable exploitation of the living resources of the sea to be environmentally balanced and economically and socially justified through measures to protect and restore resources and eco-systems. It is good to say because we know that there are various conservation reserves on the Croatian coast, so it will be important that this law and other protection laws are implemented in a way that will in some way be further protected. But to enable the economy to continue in a particular area to do what it has done so far, but with all those legal frameworks that they propose with this law. And I think that's how we contribute to the preservation of the submarine itself. This law regulates the management and protection of renewable biological resources of the sea, ways and conditions of fishing and farming. There I would only mention that it is good that it is very clear at least in the law itself, I hope that and in real life there will be one inspection and control and all that is necessary. Because we think that until now, most of the law, it can't be said that it was bad, maybe it wasn't all in line with the European Union. But I think the sea control itself may not have been as adequate as it should have been, that precisely what is declared here should primarily protect the submarine in every way possible. And we know how much everyone has been doing lately to protect the environment, nature and sustainable development. One thing that I think today has been mentioned safely, and it should also be this law that one part of it is also coordinated and there's a possibility that it might end up, and that's the control of fish sales. I think this is a good move. In our county there is a wholesaler who can certainly be more quality in selling fish to the wholesaler in some way, but what is important is the control of the sale, the resale of fish. But I'm sure there's a saying someone mentioned selling in restaurants today. That thing certainly hasn't been very good yet, but right through that sport fishing, small coastal fishing, sports fishing has been sort of running through that dimension of the hunt being resold and there was no control, because that fishing has not been recorded anywhere except on the account that you get at the end of dinner. I am pleased that the law lays down criminal provisions under which violations are categorized in three groups. One of the major newspapers and the process of general harmonisation of procedures and reporting. So, one procedure which I hope is not too administratively taking time and space for the fishermen themselves, because we know they don't like to enter the administration. But the obligation of the law will certainly be imposed upon them and will give us all certain one certainty on the islands that they will still be hatched but based on some procedure and give us some order in that segment. I would mention the same thing, and in your very speech, the Secretary of State said about the construction of fishing ports and similar things, so boat mooring. I think that's what we're saying more we might have looked back on that part of the law itself and on everything that applies, whether it can't paraangal or can't, etc. However, I believe that this is a very important thing except that local self-government units in their own spatial and urban planning arrangements or DPUs set up a fishing port as such in the plan because otherwise it is not possible to implement it. However, I think we should take care of that too, because one of the bigger problems is exactly the solution to the fishing chain issue, and I think maybe there's a bigger problem than the hunting and hunting problems themselves, etc. Therefore, I also think that there should be a need to ensure that things are harmonised to enable fishermen and through pre-accession funds and better quality funds to resolve the issue and help units of local self-government to resolve the issue of fishing ports and berths especially in smaller places, where 20 ships are already crowded in one port. Especially if this city or place on the island or somewhere on the coast also has a tourist season in a segment of nautical tourism, then it is already becoming a problem. Therefore, in any case, this law will ultimately allow for the adjustment of fishing effort, the current state of renewable wealth of the sea, and ensure a sustainable development of the activities of breeding, taking into account the most ecological standards. Furthermore, the law will ensure effective control and control of the implementation of all sea fisheries policy measures. I will only at the end when we are already at sports and underwater fishing to invite a colleague and all that in Mali Losinj at the 9th month is the World Underwater Fishing Championship. I'll support this law anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50970	Thank you. Are we invited there? All right, all right. It is up to the distinguished representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are again discussing one extremely important substance in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, so we are discussing the fisheries sector which is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia as a Mediterranean country, both in economic terms and in the context of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Here is just over 5 months ago, now perhaps six months ago, the Croatian Parliament adopted a brand-new Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market. In view of the fact that at this point, the market-priced fisheries policy of the Republic of Croatia was not adequately defined and was simply not sustainable in the context of the common fisheries policy of the European Union. By adopting the law mentioned above, we have been able to comply with the provisions of the common fisheries policy of the European Union to the greatest extent possible, and to create assumptions for the timely establishment of appropriate systems, i.e. the timely establishment of the necessary administrative structures and the adoption of the necessary implementing rules. In this pre-accession period, we have also created assumptions for the easier adaptation of the fishing sector and have increased the possibility of quality positioning Croatian fishermen and fish products producers on the European Union's single market. So simply put, we have established an effective system of structural support and market mechanisms in fisheries and in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. If we observe it on its basis, the activity of fishing in the Republic of Croatia is currently defined and regulated by the Law on Marine Fisheries and the Law on freshwater fisheries which essentially regulate the issue of catch and cultivation of aquatic organisms and issues related to the protection of living treasures of the sea and freshwater. Therefore, the fisheries policies of the Republic of Croatia today cover, above all, technical resource management measures by defining the conditions and methods of carrying out different economic and other forms of fishing, measures to regulate breeding activities and control and control measures. So, all together, what really makes the backbone of every fishing policy. It is therefore necessary to say that the fisheries policy of the Republic of Croatia is in agreement with the European Union's common fisheries policy, given the fact that both points out the need for sustainable management of marine resources and other waters. However, despite these facts, there are also certain differences in the implementing measures and instruments that need to be harmonised because we have, in particular, committed ourselves in the negotiating position for Chapter 13. Fishing, and the differences mentioned above, are most visible in the Fleet Management System and in the control and control mechanisms. For this very reason, it is proposed that a brand new Maritime Fisheries Act be governed, as referred to in Article 1 thereof, the management and protection of renewable biological resources of the sea, the manner and conditions of fishing and breeding, the monitoring of catch and breeding through the collection of data and monitoring system of vessels, the organisation of surveillance and inspection, and any other issues relevant to this sector and to this area. It is also a framework for the adoption of plans for the management of marine resources and data collection plans, as well as annual reports on the state of fishing, hence documents representing significant mechanisms that the Republic of Croatia must adopt and implement within the framework of the European Union's common fisheries policy. Furthermore, the law provides for the adoption of a series of technical measures to regulate fishing and for the protection of certain areas of the fishing sea and special habitats. It then prescribes the conditions for fishing and introduces measures to prevent the pollution of the sea and the endangerment of its biological wealth. A number of basic categories of fishing activities such as economic fishing, small coastal fishing, sport fishing, recreational fishing for scientific and educational purposes and fishing for the needs of aquariums and fishing tourism are provided in the chapter of the law relating to fishing regulation measures. For all categories of fishing, the conditions and methods of their implementation are also prescribed, so all that relates to the granting of privileges, authorisations, authorisations, authorisations, quantities of catches, allowable tools, conditions for the acquisition of the status of highly qualified persons, etc., etc. I consider it important to stress that the proposed law, although it does not significantly change the current legal framework, also introduces some important newspapers that are also a key commitment of the Republic of Croatia to international organisations and the accession process of the European Union. The more significant newspapers mentioned above refer to the introduction of the concept of the capacity of the fishing fleet and the adoption of various measures which it regulates for the purpose of sustainable management of fishing fleet activities. In this context, the obligation to keep the fishing fleet registers, the satellite monitoring obligation of the vessel, the way in which the vessel is located, and the way in which the fishing monitoring centre operations are carried out is required. Significant newspapers also concern strengthening the fisheries control and surveillance system, linking all available capacities. In this part, this law connects several competent services from the Fisheries Inspectorate through the Maritime Police to the Coast Guard. One of the important newspapers is the process of general harmonisation of procedures and reporting of these bodies, so we have one approach that can ensure maximum efficiency and reduce control and control costs. In particular, the law provides for the inclusion of a wide range of participants in the process of proposing and drawing up legal and sublegal acts and regulations. A significant step has also been made with regard to the role of units of regional and local self-government, as they become partners in resource management, as well as in planning the development of the entire sector. Here I would refer to a colleague who has just spoken in this context and the importance of the units of local self-government and regional self-government in order to establish all the necessary infrastructures needed for fishing. Although much more could be said about the proposed law, I will nevertheless conclude this debate by expressing my belief that by adopting the proposed law, we will achieve its fundamental objective, i.e. to set a legal framework for the successful and effective implementation of the provisions and measures of the common fisheries policy, particularly when it comes to the management of the fishing fleet and the fisheries resources in one sustainable way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50972	Thank you. It's time for the distinguished representative, Gyurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50973	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I am going to look back on this Marine Fisheries Act and I'm going to go back a little bit, and besides listening to you... Some MPs will look back on that, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An important day in the adoption of this sea fishing law is 19.2. this year when Croatia opened negotiations in two chapters at an intergovernmental accession conference and in Chapter 13 of the fisheries and chapter 27 of the environment. Where the number of open chapters in the accession negotiations with the European Union has then risen to 30, the adoption of this law and the obligation, inter alia, of the obligations of the negotiating position for Chapter 13 of fisheries. We can be happy both fishing and the environment have opened the same day, and that is the fact that the link is that our waters and thus our beautiful Adriatic, and still our country is ecologically clean areas, and this is still a big concern. Fishing is traditionally the most important activity of Croatia's coast and island, which is characterized by long-term history and a whole series of remarkable achievements in the development of techniques and technologies of fishing and farming. Here's just a few examples, I'm not going back deep, deep into the past, and I'm going to talk about 7 crust bread, as some have said, but a little bit in the near past. The catches of bluefish in the oceans have flourished thanks to the invention that today bears the name of its constructor Puretic block, which is Croatia and therefore extremely one achievement. Then, at the end of the 70s, Croatia was one of the pioneers in the watermelon farming, and the chamberfish, and it would not now sound like meth language, which is mentioned in the law, but this same fish has 30 names, so it is also a submersible and nutritious, so I would not say that this law is written in a meth language as fellow Anticevic said, but it is written in a professional language, or language that understands the profession, which understands fishermen, and whoever does not understand it will ask what it means. A '96. The first Croatian producers in the world began to grow blue... tuna in Kalim on the island of Ugljan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so we see that there has always been concern about fishermen and fishing, is that this is a difficult occupation, but here we go back to today, in the Republic of Croatia there are currently 3 thousand 500 economic fishing authorisation holders, whose total catches according to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in 2008 amounted to more than 49,000 tonnes, and of which, to small blue fish, 85%, these are papalains, they are red, and the rest of the small blue fish. Respecting the meaning of tradition and quality as the best foundation for the future of Croatian fisheries products, because it makes up a significant branch of the agricultural and food sector, and the fact that fishing has always been the backbone of sustainable development which has become increasingly significant in recent years, as well as long-term experience and permanent presence on the world market, there is a great potential for development potentials through future investments. The importance of fishing is also recognised through the maritime orientation of the Republic of Croatia, which is also witnessed by the availability of support mechanisms and the national plan for the strategic development of fisheries brought by this Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is also important to stress that the government's objective through the national strategic development plan of fisheries is to make availability and support mechanisms for the application of an environmentally-founded approach, which is very important for this eco-based approach today, which seems to me to be one of the most important factors not only in fisheries, but in agriculture and in general. Consistency with other national policies, but also respecting the specificities of this activity, Croatia will bring among the leading countries in the area of production and achieve efficiency at the level of international competitors, with the satisfaction of all environmental and qualitative standards, which is particularly visible in the concept of the development of maricculture, which provides a multi-functional link to tourism, which is referred to by fellow Cappelli, and then directly and socially, in particular by opening new jobs. Opening this 13th chapter of fishing Croatia sought the right to retain traditional fishing gears, which is unusual for Croatia, not only because of the economic, sociological or geopolitical value of the Adriatic Sea, but also because of the cultural dimension. We are a Mediterranean country, and the protection of old tools and customs is unusually important, and the Croatian Government is now introducing Croatia into the European Union, protecting all the above-mentioned values that are the character and pride of a nation, as well as Croatia. In the negotiating position for Chapter 13 of the fisheries, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to establishing an appropriate administrative and technical system that will enable supervision and control to be carried out in accordance with EU legislation requirements. The adoption of this law will regulate the management and protection of renewable biological resources of the sea, the manner and conditions of fishing and breeding, the monitoring of catches and breeding through the collection of data and monitoring systems, the monitoring of catch and breeding through the collection of data and monitoring systems of the vessel, monitoring, monitoring and inspection, as well as other issues relevant to marine fisheries. The objectives of the marine fisheries policy under this law are to ensure the responsible and sustainable exploitation of the living resources of the sea on an ecologically balanced and economically and socially justified basis through measures to protect, preserve and restore resources and eco-systems, which will also contribute to the activities of fisheries, and thus to the sustainability and development of coastal and island communities, and then to adapt fishing effort, and now this is a term that lays down no understanding of the laity, so it is a tool and it is not a meth phraseology and writing but simply a professional term, so it is necessary to adapt this fishing effort to the state of renewable wealth to ensure sustainable development of the activities of cultivation taking into account the most ecological standards. Let me give you a few facts here, because this is about mariculture, meaning that they are listed in the operational programme of raising competitiveness in fisheries, which is very important, and I also feel that it is necessary to hear the same thing. More than 12 thousand tonnes or 22% in total primary production of marine fish in Croatia, so this is about catch and farming, while globally it represents more than 50% of this value. The importance of the adoption of this law is now seen, and especially when it is intended to ensure the sustainable development of this activity of cultivation, i.e. maricculture, in these objectives. Mariculture in Croatia includes white fish farming, mostly the watermelons and nuts, Atlantic tuna and shellfish and mussels and pebbles. Maybe a little bit of coffee with coffee to, say, produce about 3,000 a year, more than 3,000 tons of mussels and a little more than a million pieces of pebbles. Why does it matter? It is important when we enter the EU that yet, because with regard to mariculture, we have not yet established this export to the EU, and when we enter, when it is established, it is important to know that we will be able to raise and produce. For now, only as a delicacy from the Adriatic Sea are those fish and shellfish. The other objectives are to ensure effective control and control of the implementation of marine fisheries policy measures, to ensure the establishment of appropriate land infrastructure necessary for the development of fishing activities, fishing ports, berths, landing sites and storage space. All these objectives above will be achieved, of course, as all through the following measures, and this is a measure of management of marine biological resources, fishing regulation measures, fishing fleet management measures, catch monitoring measures, fish farming and other marine organisms, the establishment of a control and control system and the determination of the severity of the infringements and the way they are sanctioned. I must stress that few activities that contain so many social, cultural, traditional connotations as a fishery were therefore necessary to take due account of and respect the specificities of this activity in Croatia. At the same time, it was necessary to take care of the future place Croatian fisheries will have within the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50974	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50975	This law gives more space and an important role
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50976	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50977	Can I just finish?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50978	Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50979	Here it is, more space and an important role for all sector representatives in both economic and non-economic fisheries, especially in the decision-making process. So I'd just like to warn my colleague, Anticevic, that Mr. Kucic is in agreement with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50980	You can't, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50981	Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50982	We have to stick to the weather, watch the time. It's time for the distinguished representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government. I'll try to be brief and try not to repeat myself, since a lot is said. So I agree with most of my colleagues who have spoken of this law as a significant step forward. But I tried to think ahead. I personally believe that if Croatia is, and as a Dalmatian, I have to be a little local, so to speak, I believe that it is actually one of the biggest advantages of the Republic of Croatia in terms of its own positioning and in the EU as well as beyond. If you want both political and economic and strategic, it is actually the Adriatic and the sea. With the opportunities left by more agriculture de facto to me, these are the places where we need to look for our place with knowledge. Why did I point this out so briefly and lapidally? Well, I think the time has come to start thinking in Croatia about something called the Ministry of the Sea. Now that you take the problem of the sea, of ecologicals, of sailing, of fishing, etc., it's all very expensive for you to have some 6.7 ministries. And actually, that coordination goes very often badly, sloppyly, not to say anything else, and that's where I see one of the problems of this law. I'll take just one example. Say, where will the fish be able to land? I say fish can be landed where the Minister of Agriculture is established, with the consent of the Minister of Transport, the Sea, or the Sea. Now look at this, imagine the problems. If it's some kind of tourist zone, if it's some kind of sports port, there's a problem. I took a picturesque example. I think it's a strategic matter to think about. It also seems to me that we double everything that's tied to the sea too much, so if you want part of this law. As I was saying, I hold this law as an important step, but again it seems to me that we've made a slightly different approach to things. It is said in one article, I think 2.3 of the article that the government will adopt a strategy, i.e. the National Fisheries Development Strategy. Now, it doesn't make any sense to me that some kind of practice comes out of some kind of a national plan. I guess we should have adopted the National Plan before and some strategy then to come up with those goals that should be outlined in that National Plan and the Programme to pass the law. I can now accept, given that we do not have this National Plan and we do not have a set goal, except to agree with European legislation, or that we do not overly upset our fishermen whether they are sporting, recreational or professional, we are not actually going to achieve those other goals. So I can accept that then the application of this law will cost nothing. But it certainly would have cost something if we had had a National Plan and a Programme, that is, if we had set goals and if this law were the way to achieve these plans. I could give very many examples in this sense that it seems to me that the good text of this law and the good intention of the promoter can easily happen to be blocked in its application. So, if you'd like, I'll start in the back, where those of you who should be doing surveillance and inspection work are listed. It's said the minister will license the inspectors. Which minister? What inspectors? I am interested, therefore, and that was why we in the SDP, and some others advocated that the Coast Guard be something different than it is today. Now, I'm interested in whether the Minister of Agriculture will license someone on the crew of a Coast Guard ship to be in charge of the fish? Or that ship will have to be boarded by some kind of inspector from the ministry, the inspectorate, I don't know where. Actually, I'm deliberately Caricating, opening these practical examples. Because it seems to me that we've complicated the system too much, and I'm not saying that the first year of application of this law is going to come to cacaphony. Somewhere 20 rules, orders, so they remain in force. It seems to me that the motionary should have made a little effort in that part, and it seems to me that the minister has been given too much authority. I don't understand why the minister has to determine the price of some card or some other price? De facto you, when you count what the minister does, it turns out he's the God and the beating of the Fisheries Act. Does it have to be like that? Well, I believe you don't. For what reason? Well, for a simple reason, because there are services in Croatia, there are brains and everything else about fishing. By the way, it seems to me that this could be complicated in a different way. So, since I generally said that the law is good, allow me a few examples and one question. My question is, will the fishermen on the islands have any benefits? Will the fisherman, so we have a policy towards the islands to keep them on those islands. We know how to live on islands. I don't mean how to live in summer but how to live in winter. Will they have other privileges besides what it says about recreational or sports fishermen, or small fishermen? And here I mean in full, not only about catching fish, but about selling, etc. I could now take you an island and ask you where he's going to sell the fish at the winter age of year? Let's say he lives far from Komiža, Brač and Hvar, how will he sell? By the time he reaches the port that is established, his fish will smell. There are several other examples. Let's say, there's a limit to the amount of fishing. So it says he can catch one fish, I think it's sports fishermen, right, over the weight that's been determined. Now I don't understand. Is that what happens when you grab a five-pound tooth? Does he have to rip off his head now or his tail and tail before he throws his head into the sea? It's not about the amount bigger for the mass of one fish, it's about one fish. Another thing, bearing in mind earlier experiences and what the fishermen told me, is, say, the size of a fish that is determined not to be caught. The fishermen know that in different tools and in some nets when the fish enters, she dies as soon as she enters the net, or she is no longer alive. They asked me why I couldn't keep that fish as a fisherman but I had to throw it to the sea or throw it into the sea to rot. So, we're deliberately opening up some of these misunderstandings, at least to me and those questions that came from the field, that we might get some clarifications and supplements. I really like this idea of banning the import of carburetors. Because Croatia is showing this awareness that it protects both the coast and the sea of other countries. In this way, we are likely to solve the problem of importing carburetors. Who knows where they were imported from and if they were imported at all. But there's some other kind of fish, like some kind of tuna, that I don't go into detail now, some are mentioned there. But there are also those who are not mentioned here, which I think should also be prohibited from importing. And since I've turned on the light here I have a few questions. Why are no specific conditions for fish farming where a farm can be found? That means, how can a farm be 100 meters from the coast and where there is no current of the sea? How can a farm be in a bay where actually let me be literal, everything stinks, like when you've been holding a tuna for two, three years? I think that should be prescribed. I know it'll be a little more expensive if you go I don't know what depth and if you go where you're not near the mainland. And what makes me so happy is the first time I've come across the mention of the sea. But by reading the law anywhere, I haven't seen how we're going to fish the sea, and who's going to do it? Is that going to be brought in with some plan? I think it's very good, and I like that idea very much. One more thing. Maybe in this law it's, let's take a mild expression at least solved the question of the market. So, and that's what, I don't actually know the situation on the ground how competent services and institutions will record the catch, regardless of the electronic register, or what everything is predicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50984	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50985	I think we should still, here I am ending the vice president, that we should still insist on these stock exchanges, or whether you're going to call them something different, but that we're going to be buying fish. And please, it wouldn't be bad for this national strategy, national plan and programme to come to the Croatian Parliament and at least informatively if not already for discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50986	Thank you. Your Honor, sir, but you haven't been brief and you've been repeating yourself. Thank you. It's next to Honorable Representative Mirela Holly. She's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And then it's up to the distinguished representative, Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50987	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate and, of course, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to fishing, of course, there are complaints, because there are no fishing without complaining, there's no fishing without worrying about how much you've caught, whether you've hunted or hidden, where you've hunted, where it's... your best. So this law has a lot to complain about. I've seen some committees give so many amendments that I won't mention. It doesn't matter to me. I care about some other things I'd like to point out. But first of all, I would say that it seems to me that in any case this law represents a single shift not only in accordance with the acquis of the European Union and in some way a commitment to fix it in at least the economic sense but in general to hygiene this situation which we can say is more important in fishing than it may be in some other areas like agriculture or the like. I'd like to compliment you at the same time and try something. I'd like to commend the term in this law at the beginning, because one problem that might be so specific to some with the conceptr explains. And there are so many of these concepts that come up in this thing that such a term was needed. And I think it's a good thing it happened. But then my consideration is of a linguistic nature to it either consciously or unconsciously abandoning something that would be important. In any case, there is a distinction between fishermen and fishermen. A fisherman is someone who deals with it economically as his profession, his calling, and others. And the fisherman is someone who does it from hobby, sports, recreation, so it's very important. But in that sense, it could also be two concepts of what they're doing, that one is fishing and another is fishing or fishing as it is said below. So it seems to me that such a distinction in the store itself would be welcome in interpreting this law. The term of an artificial marriage is also mentioned here. If there is an artificial marriage, then there is a marriage in itself where fish can be hunted, so it seems logical to mention a taxative artificial marriage, to mention marriage because it is also an orientation in space and a focus point of possible fishing. Furthermore, there's no term for hooking up entirely but it's figured out through the rest, but hooking is something that's from the hook itself, and I'm not going to say that tuna is written, but hooking up or hooking up that are terms, especially conjecture because it represents one action. But then when these two categories of sports and recreation are defined and all the art used in it. It's a big difference to use a panula, use a paraangal, use a vertex, use a spurt, use a spurt as opposed to fishing opportunities, or catch fish. So it seems to me that perhaps in terms or in the use of text certain content and certain terms could be used or something more detailed. Of course, that's what I say as one of my suggestions, I don't think the law will depend on it, but it might be cleaner. counterpart Ingrid Anticevic said in her speech that the law was bureaucratized a lot. I don't know until now any law that isn't bureaucratized and my biggest problem is in my practice, my professions being done by lawyers, and the question is whether he understands the spirit of matter they process. So how much they don't know the matter they're dealing with, maybe we don't know the right to do it... No, no, it was good, in my case I think it would be good if some of our laws engineers wrote because engineers applied, but lawyers always think the case will come to court, so they're looking for legal solutions to come. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I'm surprised you think this law is bureaucratic because I've never seen anyone who hasn't. It's like a general framework, and I don't mean it as an objection to this. When we talk at least about the segment of this fisherman or fishing, unlike economic, because I think that economic is something that regulates itself as any economic activity, there are criteria that someone can deal with it, that they can live on, that they can sell it, that they can secure their existence, enter into a particular system of the economy of the whole country. I'd like to talk more about this side that's related to recreation and sports, or this little coastal fishing that's been talked about. I guess when we say coastal that it doesn't mean that it stands on the tit when fishy, but that it's on the coast, it's on the coast, and it's not on some open seas. That's how I understood. Otherwise, if it were just a coastal difference, it would be a big difference to hunt from boobs or to hunt from straps and by the very art that are used in that case. But the important thing is, I don't know if any of you read, let's say Mesa Selimovic says, "Ahmete shabo, catch fish," why do I point that out? Because it's one category of fishing, which is relaxing, which is recreational. As soon as you get away from land with a belt 100 meters away from the end, you've got a chance of getting your brains started no matter what you catch or don't catch. This dimension is very important for people who live by the sea itself. Although there are many who ask you on your way back from fishing, how many people will call him, you don't ask how many fish have been caught but they ask you how many miaras you catch, how much currency you're worth, in money. Myar was a thousand, a grand once, and then there was how much of that money you caught. However, it is the category that belongs to one additional fishing, or additional acquisition of the resources of people living by the sea. It is important to understand that a part of people who are engaged in fishing not for sports and recreational reasons but for supplemental charging of the personal or family budget, is the same as having a garden around the house, a garden in which they plant me, potatoes, blemish, etc., which does not represent economic activity in relation to others but is very important for one personal household. For this reason, I absolutely support what the law states about the amount of fish that can be caught and the kind of fish that can achieve on the market the price of one relevant economic income, an economic interest unlike that fish that cannot do so. We're in my office yesterday for 20 kunas and six of us are eating, but they've been eating nuggets, and with 20 kunas, there's nothing you can do about it. So I really like that distinction of one and the other, I just need to clarify that these 5kg of representative fish are not on board, but on the person who has a license for you because often because of saving a few of us on board and one on the one hand hunts, the other on the other hand hunts and often happens that the one that's with me gets caught, and I don't catch anything. I don't know why that happens, but often my tuna stays dry. I could still tell you these things that are extremely important to the local population that they do not realize that they are threatened but that things need to be regulated, as well as the issue of aquaculture in relation to tourism activity, that they do not come into conflict with one another, but as one conclusion because I see a light, one conclusion that seems to me is very important. First, that it should increase the amount of fish consumption and not think that the fish in the restaurant is just a skull, a shrimp, a dentist or a shampoo, that they are also good grills, that good lockards, mackerel, nuggets and other things that can be much sweeter, menus and tuna. So, to increase consumption because then the value of fishing as our economic branches will increase, but the same thing that is crucial in that, it is important that the fish be because they say that the sea is increasingly hungry and hungry fish. Therefore, that settlement with the younger fish would be welcome. And of course, surveillance in these protected areas is extremely important because of these spaces and conditions in it. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50988	Thank you. You've entered the red, but correct. It's the Honorable representative of Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50989	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. It has already been said that this bill should be observed in connection with the Structural Support Act that we have already adopted in the Parliament. The fundamental difference is that this law provides for basic management measures and provides for different technical management measures while the Structural Assistance Act allows for the financing of adjustments in cases where necessary. I also see the difference in the amount of attention devoted to environmental protection, where this bill is certainly a more positive example because the issue of environmental protection is mentioned in almost every provision that this proposal brings with it which is commendable. The links of these two laws are visible through the definitions of general objectives and in part in the content of key documents. Fishing is historically very long present in the territory of the European Union countries and is important for the development and economy of many, primarily small communities, although fishing yields account for only 1% of the Union's gross social product, more than 270 thousand people are directly employed as professional or semi-professional fishermen. The basis for fisheries management in the European Union was set up by a common fisheries policy which was originally part of the common agricultural policy. The separation of private policy has contributed to the entry into the Union of countries with significant fishing fleets and marine resources, and the need to address new specific problems such as preserving fish stocks and regulating international relations after the introduction of economic belts. In 2003, the European Union started a new fisheries policy with four basic features, a long-term approach, a new policy for fishing fleets, better application of the rules and better involvement of different stakeholders. As part of this reform, an integrated framework for partnership fisheries agreements with third countries should be mentioned. Where fishing interests are traditionally common, quality relations, especially in the case of neighbouring coastal states, the European Union should consolidate these relations with permanent agreements. With regard to bilateral relations that mark economic, social, or institutional differences, the European Union strengthens this cooperation through the Fisheries Partnership Agreement. This benefits and ensures the application of a sustainable fisheries policy, as well as the rational and responsible use of resources that are in the long-term interest of all stakeholders. The latest news coming from the European Union on fisheries concerns annual catch quotas, the trend in setting those quotas in recent years is to reduce fishing quotas for species exposed to over-exploitation, but at the same time carefully increasing quotas for other fish species to avoid jeopardising the existence of fishermen. The assumption is that by 2015 overfishing will be completely eradicated. In the latest report by the European Commission on our country for 2009 in the field of fisheries, Croatia received a mostly positive assessment. It is stressed that Croatia has made good progress in the area of fisheries. Croatia will have to step up efforts to overcome the remaining gaps in fleet management, surveillance and control, structural activities and state aid, fisheries areas that are highlighted as those that require more effort are market policies where limited progress has been reported, the area of structural activities and the state support programme where progress has been assessed by limited ones, and in particular the need for further strengthening of the administrative and operational capacity of the fisheries inspection, which is a key element of accession negotiations, in particular regarding the employment and education of new fishing inspectors for coast guard implementation. It certainly encourages the fact that two months ago, in fact on 19 February, the 13th chapter of fishing that was the longest in the blockade was finally opened. It has lasted since screening, so since the first phase of accession negotiations. They also encourage the latest statistics on the quantities of fish exports for 2009 according to which Croatian fishing achieved almost 11% more exports, i.e. 524 million kuna of fish exports. According to more... Croatia's fishing fleet, with its 300-thousand large and 700 smaller vessels last year, caught a record 50,000 tonnes of tiny blue fish, which is by 7 thousand tonnes more than a year ago, and close to 7,000 tonnes of white fish, which is about 2,000 tonnes more than in 2008. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it would be great if the mentioned increase in fish catches in Croatia would also lead to an increase in fish and fish processing consumption from the current ones I would say poor 7kg per capita according to the Mediterranean average of about 13 kilograms or a European of almost 30 kilograms. Despite these positive trends, however, problems with wholesalers, incentives, and payments to suppliers continue to be highlighted. For a long time, many fish and tuna growers have not paid fishers the raw materials delivered, the tiny blue fish, putting their normal business at risk. To some fishermen, tuna farmers owe up to 5 million kunas for fish delivered, so fishermen have to raise loans to pay for the crew, maintenance of the ship and fishing tools, the state should introduce order into that segment of the Croatian economy, because if the fishermen start to tie ships, then the entire fishing processing chain will come into question. In mid-August of last year, the Government's Regulation on terms of organisation, way of business and the process of selling fish in large fish markets, largely with fish, came into effect, and while the Ministry of Agriculture clarifies that fish wholesalers in Croatia are still in the beginning, so the purpose of the regulation is to regulate the market and create more transparent business conditions, a quote concluded, in unofficial sources close to the Government, that the regulation is actually due to the obvious dissatisfaction of the country's current work of the wholesalers. The installation of both up to now built wholesalers, around 30 million kunas were invested in the establishment of the concept used Italian experiences where about 100 fishermen and 40 customers applied to one wholesaler. The entry into the European Union of the Croatian fish market will become part of the common market networked into the European electronic system of wholesalers, and another problem is the fact that customer interest in certain European Union countries is today smoking high taxes on fish transport through Slovenia. This cost disappears from membership in the European Union when demand and number of customers should grow, which should certainly facilitate the existence of the wholesaler. Of course, union representatives have a more radical view of the state of fishing, so they point out that the situation is alarming, much worse in the last 40 years. For them, the kuna is a tiger of paper that brought the exporters to the brink of destruction. On the one hand, the state has helped fishermen to build a 30m-euro fleet modernisation, but there is no existing infrastructure for fishing ports, berths and landing sites. The inputs of tuna growers and small blue fish processors are high, while the recession brought down prices in Japan as you said earlier, where all Croatian farming goes from 38% to 42%. Serious conditions also promote trade chains that pay up to 150 days for fishermen' goods. The capital turnover ratio for tuna growers is 0.5% and 12% for trade chains, but still for the third and fourth quarter of last year, fishermen received only 60% of the resort ministry's incentives, although the state is said to be returning kuna and a half. It is therefore no wonder that regardless of the value of exports, the positive external trade balance and the increase in production of this economic branch were brought into an uninvited situation. As a result, a strategy for the survival of fishermen proposed to the Government by the Resoring Ministry, which, among other things, provides for a moratorium to be paid to HBOR for 2 years, to accept a zero concession rate and to carry out fish farming supervision once and not 4 times a year. Obviously, positive trends refer primarily to the processing industry and exports while the situation is not so favourable for small fishermen. The bill of law also causes a few concerns, my colleagues have already talked about it. Like the the thesis that its implementation does not require any additional budget funding, which is questionable in view of the numerous newspapers it brings with it. One example that denies this thesis concerns the system of supervision where in art. The 58th said the cost of purchasing equipment installation, maintenance and data transfer costs is borne by the ministry. It's probably a contradiction, if I don't ask you to explain it. And one more thing at the end that needs to be pointed out, it's art. 13 and 64, i.e. the Register of Fisheries Subjects, which registers all natural and legal persons registered for the performance of economic fishing at sea, including the first buyers in fisheries. Media advances show that most of them as the main problem, except for regular payment of incentives, the fish reselling problem states. The introduction of only private customers, and not all of the entities participating in the fish trade in the register, is not acceptable enough or can solve this problem which is hardly mentioned in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50990	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50991	You spoke to your colleague about the amount of fish being fished annually, and you can imagine how much tonage would have been if ZERP had taken effect in 2004 and that the government had not deceived both fishermen and citizens when it promised to take effect. In fact, 25 thousand square miles is covered by this area. And Italians, of course, draw fish worth over 300m euros a year. Then you can imagine what that would mean for our fishermen, for our economies, for our repairmen. After all, we could, if we had declared them as well as an agreed economic belt, we could have controlled them by the same ships, how many horsepower they had, we could control their catches, we could take care of them organically, and now we can just watch them, and neither can that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50992	If it's not fog, of course. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50993	Dear colleagues, as you yourself have said, ZERP is becoming a major missed opportunity for Croatian politics, which was faced with an eclatantly poor situation in its aquatorium in 2003, trying to network its national interests with European interests. I would like to remind you that this was the time before the Venice conference was held, which was for the first time intended to take joint coordinated measures to preserve aquaculture and protect against overfishing. However, as you know, we met with one political will that refused to accept the ZERP and which later gave up on it. I truly believe that this was not in vain and that Croatia's entry into the EU will indeed make the Adriatic what it deserves, and this is the most valuable European sea that has first and foremost special significance for those of us who live alongside it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50994	Thank you. It's time for the distinguished representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50995	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this topic today, and the topic is marine fisheries, as one of the specific branches of agriculture in today's business times, is faced with growing demands. Because just joining the EU, in order to join the EU, it is necessary to adopt and implement a series of standards as well as mechanisms, their actions in our legislation. Well, that's why we're discussing this Marine Fisheries Act today because it must be one of the conditions for closing Chapter 13. And we know exactly that Chapter 13 and fisheries have been going through many peripetias. What's already been said today, ZERP, we've had 75 days. For the sake of good will to negotiate, we have abolished it. However, this did not seem to help and it was opened much later. It seems that around the fish, as Coco's song puts it, the seagulls are fighting, and if the seagulls are fighting and they're arguing so people don't even seem to be. Due to all this proposal for the Marine Fisheries Act that we are discussing today, it is a significant factor in the development of Croatian fisheries. But I only consider it on condition that we bring it in with the goal of carrying it out. Why do I say that? Well, because fishing entities expect major changes because Croatia's fishing policy is still far from the measures prescribed by the EU's common fisheries policy. I think there's already been a lot of talk about it. And for this reason, I see the law as a key document that will ensure timely establishment of the necessary adjustment mechanisms in the maritime fisheries segment, structural support and EU practices. I think there's another big deal about it, and with this Marine Fisheries Act. However, the basis of this law will require the adoption of a series of implementing rules. The preparation of administrative capacities for the successful implementation of EU funds and joint funds, their distribution to Croatian fisheries. Marine fisheries without these funds that should be distributed to the EU will certainly not be able to exist here. To pass a good law, we must be aware that what is proposed needs to be seen and some changes. We are like the Committee on Agriculture and have given certain amendments and the Secretary of State has said that they will be accepted. And I think that in all those activities that were that these amendments were only meant to improve this law and that it could also be implemented in practice, which is certainly our goal. We also need to be aware of the conditions in which our marine fisheries are located. Transitional changes, and then the war situation has led to the renewal of the fisheries work resources not going as they were supposed to go, and this connection around fishing gears and fishing fleets and the setting up of the fishing fleet registers, management measures all I think is necessary and important for the consolidation and modernisation of Croatian fisheries. Therefore, meeting high standards will be one of the preconditions for closing this chapter, i.e. through this law. In our analysis of the state of sea fishing, we have two things. It's a free bet that's already been talked about by about 50,000 tons today, mostly blue fish. Another thing is the use of that blue fish in the production of tuna and tuna. One time it was a high price today, but one with the other and the fish that is often caught because of incomplete cold chains, i.e. the inability to accept that fish will be returned to the sea, i.e. dumped instead of being used in production. In that part, therefore, it is likely that this Law on Marine Fisheries should also be given through those places where it will be unloaded and any other possibility of what we catch to take advantage of, whether through food for tuna or humans or to process it in the processing industry. The other thing is the same question that matters, and here it's mentioned the same thing about breeding. This particular fish farming in the world is one of the fastest growing sectors in food production. Today, this total production has increased by one-third over the last six years, and in global proportions, fish consumption already accounts for over 50% of fish consumption with a further trend of decline in the value of fish caught. Therefore, I think we must be particularly interested that all of these parts of this law that are related to the measures governing fish farming should be implemented. Because that part of fish farming, so fish farming is pulsating and we need it, but we also need to preserve the environment where that fish is grown, because interest especially in white fish farming is now growing more and more. This fish gives the best price and example, for example, of a skull and a nutrient, which is growing about 4 thousand tons 10 years ago, that was about 545 tons. That's why I think we need to be interested in having the farm management under special care. Because what we can expect is that this development of fish farming on the Adriatic is even greater and that it also contributes to better economic development and the fisheries branch as such. However, regarding tourism and what we want, as well as in this segment of cultivation, the rules that are also said in this law need to be fully implemented. And finally, I think that the Sea Fisheries Act is a significant law that is related to the closure of Chapter 13 but will be even more important to fully implement as it is set out in these indications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50996	Thank you. He wants to take a word from the Prime Minister's representative? Yeah. Dear Tonci Bozanić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50997	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would try to maybe give answers to some questions and some things to further explain. So, when it comes to small coastal fishing as a new category, we know that the European Union regulation does not involve the possibility of using landline nets, which is now allowed in small coastal fisheries. I have to say that we have managed in some way to take on one transition period until 2015 when we are holding on to the current small fishing, and since then we may be having some problems still maintaining that category with another name through small coastal fishing, but of course in a far smaller scale. So that category in the situation of these I would say one specific circumstance of our struggle for our particular person, has got one form a little bit more enslaved but still those people who are really in some social category are left with a certain possibility of using a network of standings. We've had an observation that the minister has too much authority. I may also agree with that, however, it is important to say that this same law contains an unequivocal provision, when, when adopting sublegal acts of all regulations, the minister is obliged to consult the profession. So, the representatives of the army, the Chamber of crafts, the Chamber of Commerce, sports fishermen, all fishing associations. Therefore, these powers can be applied in a way that respects the arguments of the highest profession that I am not sure that other law enables the profession to do so. They were talking about a dilemma about a captured capitalist in sports-recreation fishing. You don't need any capital regardless of the size of that fish it can be legally caught and consumed. And as for the minimum size of the fish, there's a bit of a bigger problem. This seems very problematic to me anyway, but we must respect these provisions, because here on all the seas of the civilized world regulations are always the same and always the same ruthless. So we simply have to respect them, and as legislators, we have to keep an eye on where, in which times, in which areas, as well as small specimens and illicit and then with time and prohibitions of tools and prohibitions on how to fish, we make certain catches impossible in these areas. About the conditions around the farm. I'd say we have a lot of good regulations and I'd say we have maybe one of the most rigorous regulations in the world even. So, with us getting a concession for the farm, I think it's very complicated, very difficult and that we have all the regulations regarding the regulation of the place and the way in which the fish is grown, I would say according to the highest environmental standards. So environmental protection regulations are pretty clear and pretty strict there. We heard about the definition of suitor tools not to be mentioned in the law. I would just point out that the law is not the one that defines in detail certain ways of fishing. The rules on the implementation of economic fisheries then define all the instrumentation tools, and according to all that we have heard so far, the parallels and the panels and the springs, etc., so nothing has been forgotten. As for the commentary on fish consumption, I agree, too, I think it is unforgivable for Croats to eat so little fish and, of course, it would be good to increase that consumption. Normally, in our neighbouring countries through the big market fish, it makes it easier to increase fish consumption per capita, and here we are at some beginnings. I personally hope that when we enter the European Union, when there is no more Schengen that these major markets will work in that full form, but it is good to have them, it is good to plan new ones so that the moment we are part of the common European family, then we will feel the real effects of fishing wholesalers. Finally, regarding the costs of this Marine Fisheries Act in part of the inspection, I must say that there are no new costs because in the budget for this year and in the projection of the 2011 and '12 budget. the amount provided for the inspection costs shall be. Another clarification regarding the first buyer. So we've defined him as such, he's obliged to report to the Ministry of Purchased Fish. So, the first buyer is the customer the fisherman sells the fish to. After that, when he sends us the documents on the fish sold after that, he is no longer interesting to us, then he is in the jurisdiction of the competent inspectorate, so the Economic Inspectorate and this first moment is essentially the most important for all countries. So, when a fisherman sells the first fish customer we have records of then, we have the prescribed forms on which we report, we keep records of it, and after that the law can always be broken, but that most important part is still regulated. And at the very end, what we heard about the tradition of Croatian fishing, I think we should particularly point out that, here we are somehow proud of the tie and the pen that Croatian products are, but I must responsibly say that the greatest contribution to the world that Croatia has made to fishing has given. Our Croats on the west coast of America were pioneers of fishing. We were the first to invent a tunafish, to move away from the west coast of America, to enter the Pacific and to start hunting tuna. My Komisans first began to fish commercially for salmon in Alaska at the beginning of the last century. Our Kaljani in Port Lincoln, Australia, first caught tuna and brought it to the mainland, put it in a cage, fed it, and achieved a 20-fold price on the demanding Japanese market, this no-hau, that knowledge was passed on to Croatia, so we are pioneers. My Komižanin in San Pedro at the beginning of the last century, an illiterate fisherman from his fishing savings bought land on a terminal island in San Pedro, built a factory, the only one survived in competition during the global economic crisis and became the world's largest brand, starkist, the largest fish-processing factory. So many things we Croats have contributed to the world with our own knowledge. We had socialism when we were stalled, we had the Homeland War, but I hope now we have all the conditions that we can be equal, competitive neighbors and what's most important of the total fishing in the Adriatic in the last few years our share of that cake is slowly, but certainly increasing. Here, I thank you for truly I would say good debate. I hope you accept this law and thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50998	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u50999	We are passing the final proposal of the Marine Fisheries Act, the emergency procedure was P.Z.E. No. 519. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and by the Committee on Law. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article. 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Marine Fisheries Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final proposal of the Marine Fisheries Act was adopted by the majority of votes, 110 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51000	We move to the 3rd item of the agenda, which is - Report on the course of the negotiating process of the Republic of Croatia - The European Union is the Head of State delegation for negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union during the Presidency of the Kingdom of Sweden (term from 1 July to 31 December 2009). They submitted this report on the basis of a statement by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on joint action in the EU membership negotiations process. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Vladimir Drobnjak, Ambassador and Deputy Head of the State delegation for negotiations in the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51001	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs. We therefore have a report on the negotiations during the Swedish presidency in the second half of last year. It is not only the most successful statisticalally considered by all the Presidencies during the negotiation process, because during the Swedish Presidency we opened 6 and temporarily closed 10 negotiating chapters and at the end of the reporting period we had a total of 28 open and 17 provisionally closed chapters. Since the report very detailedly explains everything, allow me just a few major accentes related to the Swedish presidency, I will try... Just count them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first feature of the Swedish Presidency, apart from the fact that Sweden has performed very professionally, very effectively and in action has confirmed its commitment to the European Union enlargement policy. One of the characteristics of the negotiations during the Swedish presidency is that in their time there was a deblocking of negotiations by Slovenia, which allowed such a breakthrough. In addition, at the end of the Swedish Presidency, the European Commission produced two capital documents, a document called the enlargement strategy and the main challenges in 2009 and 2010, and a report on Croatia's progress in the negotiations, both of which contain the best and most qualitative assessments so far. In addition, a financial package for Croatia's accession to the European Union worth 3,568 billion euros was also proposed, so 3 billion 568m euros for the first two years of membership, and an ad hoc working group was set up to create accession contracts. All this has created an additional critical quality mass in our negotiations, and a standoff for the claim coming from Brussels and from the Member States, that our negotiations have entered a final and decisive phase. Allow me in the end only a few remarks and beyond the reporting period when I have the honour to address you. I think that we should start from the fact that Croatia is mostly already in line with the acquis of the European Union at the moment. We will close another negotiating chapter at the Intergovernmental Conference on Monday, increasing the number of closed chapters to 18. However, this statistics do not represent the right picture. The fact is that the job is completely finished, or at the very end it is still in 7 negotiating chapters, and at a very remote stage in others. We have delivered all 33 negotiating positions as to how many chapters have passed the screening process, which means that Croatia has done everything necessary for the opening of these chapters, I would like to say that yesterday in the Council of the European Union a debate was launched in order to open Chapter 31 of the Common Foreign and Defence Policy. The real question is whether we can finish the job in this year, when it comes to closing all chapters, my opinion that we can, regardless of all its weight and challenges, but the dynamics of completing this job are not only dependent on the Republic of Croatia, but also on the speed and volume of action and debate on the part of the European Commission and the Member States. When it comes to Chapter 1, which we close on Monday, it is important to say that we will close the third of the four basic chapters, these are also chapters with regular numbers 1, 2, 3, 4 which contain fundamental freedoms on the common market of the European Union and which cover most of the legal gains. I recall that we have already closed the chapters on the freedom of movement of workers and the freedom to provide services, on Monday we close the chapter of freedom of movement of goods, and I can say that when it comes to fourth fundamental freedom and freedom of movement of capital yesterday we received confirmation at the technical level in the European Commission that all the closing criteria have also been met in this chapter. Further work on accession contracts especially through technical adaptations is going well and I don't think there's any reason not to believe in final success, of course there's no reason to relax, there's still work ahead even though the biggest part of the job is behind us, but this job that's left is being devoted to it with full attention and with all our strength and back to the report on the Swedish presidency, I think it's detailed and that it speaks for itself. And thank you for your attention. And I thank the Croatian Parliament for its support so far in negotiations without which, of course, we could not reach this point where we are today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51002	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. And I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51003	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Chief Negotiator, colleagues and fellow MPs. The report on the course of the negotiation process between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, which we have in front of us today, covered the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009, and the Council of the European Union presided over that period of the Kingdom of Sweden. This six-month period ended on the last day of last year, and as previously stressed, so we at the SDP club can express satisfaction with it, but only moderate satisfaction. At the end of the reporting period, in the already four-year run of our negotiations, when drawn at the end of the Swedish Presidency, 28 chapters were opened and 17 provisionally closed, more specifically during the Presidency of the Kingdom of Sweden, 10 negotiating chapters were opened and temporarily closed. So technical progress has been made in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, there have been three intergovernmental accession conferences, two at ministerial and one at the replacement level. The European Commission also adopted a autumn enlargement document package in November 2008 which includes a strategic communication document by the European Commission to the Council and the European Parliament, as well as an enlargement strategy and main challenges in 2008 and 2009 and 2010 with the contribution of the road map to reach the final stage of accession negotiations with the Republic of Croatia. The European Commission's progress report, including Croatia, has been adopted, where we have indeed received the best grades so far. By all means, we can be content, especially when we get so - called. Road maps to reach the final stage for the conclusion of our accession negotiations. However, the Republic of Croatia was expected to enter the final phase of the accession negotiations by the end of 2009 if it takes the necessary steps in the preparatory process, and if the European Commission has proposed an indicative road map for the technical conclusion of the negotiations, it is now very uncertain for us at the SDP club and the end of the negotiations by the end of this current year 2010. The European Commission itself has pointed out in its own time that our negotiations have entered a decisive final stage, after which, unfortunately, the well-known one-year stagnation of negotiations has arrived. As stated in the report before us, the work on opening and closing chapters continued, meeting the criteria, harmonising the legislation that we best witness here in the hall. According to the report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia estimates that, given the circumstances, Croatia has made good progress in the negotiation process during the reporting period and that the accession process entered this final, most complex phase by the end of 2009. However, there is no indication of the circumstances in which the final phase of the negotiations is particularly complex. Does that mean problems in the judiciary, corruption problems or problems that follow the shipbuilding sector? It is also a positive fact that an ad hoc working group was set up, which was also discussed by the main negotiator for the draft Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, which is in parallel with the completion of the final process, in which we will save about 6 months. But we return to those difficult circumstances that have followed us, which have partly marked the Swedish Presidency of the European Council, which is a relationship with our neighbouring Slovenia, which has blocked 12 chapters and two other countries that blocked Chapter 23 from the position of the member. – Justice for the sake of insufficient, sloppy and unarranged cooperation of our country with the court in The Hague, but also high levels of corruption in our society and insufficient work on judicial reform. These latter are very important aspects that are not sufficiently indicated. The blame is not only in the neighbours and the border dispute, which should not have been a front for not resolving our internal issues of the rule of law, corruption and in general the implementation of necessary reforms for our own sake, and not for the EU's sake. The most positive fact, the dimension that happened, is we will all admit, that the position with neighbouring Slovenia has been unblocked and that the final accession negotiations have separated from the border dispute talks with neighbouring Slovenia. In the end, we all know well by the agreement that ratified this House on 20 November 2009. The Kingdom of Sweden is a country that, following the Czech Presidency, for which there has been no progress in our pre-accession process, is very openly supporting our accession path to the EU. During its presidency, however, she also encountered problems that arised after the European elections, resulting in weather uncertainty about the appointment of a new commission whose mandate continued after the European elections. And the European Parliament and the Commission have therefore not been fully operational for some time in their actions, which has been reflected somewhat negatively on the issue of the progress of our negotiations. Today, on behalf of the SDP advocates' club, we would like to point out that for our work and efforts in accession negotiations it is extremely important to analyse the 3 key aspects of the European accession process. On these three aspects, we believe that they are not addressed enough by the attention, effort and work of all of us, and mainly by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The first aspect is to closely monitor the wider context of global and European developments that also have reflections on dynamics and formulating nuances in EU enlargement policy. During last year, it was a recognizable reflection of the global crisis and of the economic crisis on the general mood of EU member states towards enlargement policy in such a way that Member States focused their attention mainly on dealing with their own problems of economic and social character, and unfortunately we were more concerned with lamentation on the global crisis than with the example of EU members of our domestic crisis. Also, the initial negative result of the Lisbon Treaty referendum has returned to the agenda in the European countries a mantra of certain political circles that there is no further enlargement in Europe without institutional reform. And that's also negative, that atmosphere, has affected our accession negotiations. The parallel process, therefore, is now almost 15 years of efforts by EU member states to adapt their own institutions to significantly increased Union membership of the 21st century, certainly leaving a mark on the speed of enlargement dynamics towards the Southeast European Member States and Croatia. In which some negative experiences have contributed to the recent expansion, we must be open to the kind of abstention of the old members. When a new enlargement strategy is added from the end of 2006 according to which the EU's absorption capacity is restored to the first stage, although it is one of the Copenhagen criteria of 1993, it is clear that the enlargement process is taking place under much more complex circumstances than it was before. Another aspect that we want to emphasise is the necessity for full commitment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all other institutions acting in the accession process of negotiations to the quality implementation of the reform processes in the context of the enlargement of EU accession in political, economic and sectoral terms. In this context, we believe that the implementation of strategic framework documents, i.e. the National Accession Programme and the Aquis harmonisation Plan, as well as the pre-accession economic programme, which takes into account key elements of macroeconomic policy and fiscal policy and the implementation of structural reforms, and in the context of EU accession and adequate reference to strategic European documents and guidelines. For the success of this process, it is important to strengthen the institutional capacity, the state administration as the holder of reform activities at Ministry level, as well as at Parliament's level of administrative capacity to process legislative proposals. In the SDP club, we also hold a comprehensive character of reform efforts in such a way as to conduct a reasoned, public and professional debate on key issues, and that parliamentary bodies such as this. The Committee on European Integration and the National Committee for the Monitoring of Pre-accession Negotiations in the Republic of Croatia shall be the generators of such public debates at political level which are decisive and affect the issue of public support and public opinion for Croatia's EU accession. Seeking consensus on European issues is useful and important, but they must not be a substitute for this open public debate. Because this will give the public the opportunity to be timely informed of topics that will have concrete effects on the everyday life of all citizens. Finally, the SDP advocates' club will support this report, but expresses concern and skepticism over the term of ending the RS' pre-accession negotiations with the EU. If we miss the deadline for the end of the negotiations by the end of this year, deadlines for the finalisation of the signing and ratification of our pre-accession agreement will be delayed too much. Let us not forget that 27 parliaments need to ratify our pre-accession agreement, the parliaments of all members, and it will be a long process for which we can lose a lot of time but also a lot of money for us in the European budget but which are related to some deadlines. There are still too many issues to address which we are late for, and this is primarily the problem of reforming the judiciary, rooting out the problem of corruption, solving the looking stone around the door of the finals of these negotiations, and this is likely to be shipbuilding. We express our concern that again some of this will be caught in the negotiations and that we will miss the deadlines. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51004	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51005	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Smally, colleagues and colleagues. As we have heard from the main negotiator, the main event under the Swedish Presidency is no doubt the signing of an arbitration agreement between Croatia and Slovenia and the deblockation of the negotiations. The arbitration agreement remembers a colleague and a colleague, signed on November 4th last year. In the Croatian Parliament, we ratified the agreement shortly afterwards. Unfortunately, the Slovenian side hasn't done it yet, but they'll only be six. This 6th year, to organise an advisory referendum. Let us hope after that there will also be ratification of this agreement. As the chief negotiator said, what is particularly positive about the agreement in general and relations between Croatia and Slovenia is a deblockation of negotiations. We opened in a very short period of 6 chapters, and we closed 10 negotiating chapters that were ready to be closed thanks to our negotiators. What we would particularly like from the HNS Club here to underline is the fact that during this period of the Swedish Presidency, the European Union, or the Council of the European Union, has formed a working group to draw up a draft accession contract for Croatia and that this work together began on 16 December. Of course, we haven't heard of it, perhaps we can hear if you have information about what they've done in the area so far, because we're certainly interested in where the design of the contract has come from. What is also very encouraging, which is obviously a sign that the European Union is ready to accept Croatia, is that a financial package for Croatia's membership in the European Union has also been developed. Croatia will, however, have to contribute now and then, when we join the European Union to contribute to the European budget, so that Croatia will pay 609m euros in 2012 if I remember Mr Drobnjak well from your presentations that you had on the National Committee. That in 2013, we will have to pay 647m euros, but on the other hand, Croatia has the opportunity to withdraw considerable funds, two and a half to three times more funds, i.e. to be concrete in 2012 about a billion and a half euros, and a year later, as much as 2 billion euros. What I seem to miss in this debate is that one of the government's representatives appears here, to tell us basically what the government has done in preparation to actually withdraw those funds successfully. That's where we stay. It seems to be denied that information. Furthermore, I must say that I have been asked by colleagues from those counties that I represent here, to say that they too are surprised sometimes with European projects. So there's a possibility of withdrawing funds but that's why you have to co-finance these projects. We are told by colleagues that the situation in local and regional self-government is such that it is not easy to allocate funds for these projects and that they often give up competitions for reasons because they themselves are aware that they will not have the opportunity to cover their part. What I do as a scientist about this financial package is a bit of a pain in the ass, it's Secretary Fuchs' decision a month ago, where he decides to suspend co-financing of activity 7. The Framework Programme of the European Community. That's not a good sign to me. Not only does the co-financing of these projects cease, but this decision takes effect on the date of adoption and is applied retroactively from 1 June of last year. So, for the whole period we're discussing. It is certainly not good for Croatian scientists, it is not good for what we call a knowledge society, it is not a good signal to the European Union and I think it is a rough mistake. What we would still like to underline from the HNS club is a little bit more about those chapters which Slovenia did not unblock in the period of the Swedish Presidency. In the second half of last year, Slovenians did not unblock chapters 13, 27 and 31. Chapter 13, i.e. Fisheries because they were asking the question of the historical rights of Slovenian fishermen in Croatian territorial waters, calling for SOPS. With regard to Chapter 27. – Environment, Slovenia wanted Croatia's obligations to be precise about the decommissioning of nuclear waste from the Krško joint nuclear plant and in Chapter 31. – Common foreign and security policy, it is a general impression of the good neighborhood, i.e. good neighbourly relations between Croatia and its neighbours. And this chapter is clearly used by Slovenians as a strategic reserve, i.e. a reserve brake. Fortunately, chapters 13 and 27. The Slovenians also unblocked early this calendar year after the meeting of Prime Minister Kosor and Prime Minister Pahor in early January, but we see that there are still problems over some other chapters. As for chapters 23 and 8, we know what this is about. Chapter 23 concerns the objections some Member States have in connection with Croatian cooperation with ICHTI, and as far as the Competition is concerned, everything depends clearly on the privatisation tender for the shipyard which will have to precede in order to get an invitation at all to submit the negotiating positions. Finally, I will only be two more minutes on the European Commission's progress report on the Republic of Croatia's accession process. I'll read just 15 sentences that it doesn't turn out to be, although I agree with the secretary-general that this report is the most positive of all so far, without further ado, but I think it's important that we still have a debate here, and that in the end the media is registering that it's not all honey and milk. First, they need to say in the European Commission to reform the state administration and strengthen the fight against corruption in a system of state administration that must go towards professionalism and avoid putting political figures in key positions. As for judicial reform, the European Commission points out that some progress is being made in strengthening institutions and reducing the number of cases left behind. The law on the selection of judges and state lawyers will only be passed, and the European Commission considers it extremely important for it to be consistently implemented. The European Commission assesses the establishment of the Office for the fight against organised crime and corruption, and welcomes the activities of USKOK, but still considers corruption prevailing in a large number of areas to be observed. The European Commission further notes that progress has been seen in terms of minority rights, and in particular good progress in supporting the Roma minority, but they say more should be done to strengthen the spirit of tolerance towards minorities and to remove difficulties in the employment of minority representatives. Furthermore, the European Commission has particularly highlighted the difficulties in the accession of the Hague tribunal, i.e. the artillery logs... Croatia continues to participate actively in regional initiatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The European Commission welcomes the meeting on the border issue between Croatia and Slovenia. It also welcomes efforts in that direction between Croatia and Montenegro. As for colleagues and colleagues, economic criteria in the European Commission report, it is clear that in the first half of 2009, unemployment increased, but Croatia should be able to implement reforms and respond to certain structural challenges with certain competitive measures. Structural reforms have progressed at a slow pace, according to the European Commission. The further decline in income is not fully covered by reforms, and as far as the investment climate is concerned, it continues to suffer from high administrative burden. Finally, good progress has been made with regard to legal compliance with European Union regulations and administrative capacity, but further efforts are needed in particular in the area of strengthening administrative structures. Here's a colleague and a colleague, I think that when discussing such reports, we need to focus more clearly on these elements, which we can certainly do with a joint effort, and we don't need to run away from them, we need to talk about them, we need to clearly invite all those partners who can come along with us, and we need to remove these shortcomings and finally do the job we've imagined over the years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51006	Thank you. And the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ambassador Drobnjak, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am going to try and do the same in a slightly different way than we have, we have a lot of numbers ahead of us, and I don't think it's necessary to repeat them all. I'll try to give a little look back and a little look ahead which I think is important for the negotiations. So it's the Swedish Presidency, and I think this time it's the fact that our European Union counterparts often talked about that it's still important who holds the presidency. So, if the country that holds the presidency has an enlargement policy as a general policy it seeks, which is definitely the case of Sweden, so Sweden has always supported enlargement, then it is clear that such a country and that it is making a lot of investment in its efforts at the time of its chairmanship that this policy is precisely the case. Therefore, looking at the figures we have ahead of us, I would agree with the main negotiator that the overall assessment of the course of negotiations is very good during the Swedish Presidency. If you were to speak sports, I'd say a great score and a great game. Great score because we opened six chapters, closed 10. If it turned into some kind of relative number to see what it was about, about a fifth of the open and about a third of the closed. If all the presidents had done so, we would have talked about other issues now, so our contract would be in the ratification phase. Why do I think it was a great game? Because sometimes you can have a good result but the viewers weren't quite happy. I think because, indeed, from everything that has been going on in those 6 months, it has intensified the continuation of all accession-related activities, and accession is not only a negotiation but also the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement commitments, compliance with the criteria for opening and closing chapters, implementation of structural reforms, preparation for the use of funds, etc., etc. So, on all these activities, the relevant institutions worked extremely hard, and I think that's why this result was exactly what it was. I wouldn't say anything special about the issue of the blockade of Slovenia, I think that's all already being said. What I think is good and it's great is that on the initiative of the Prime Minister, the blockade that has kept us practically in a frozen position for almost a year has been taken down, that in the second time during the Swedish Presidency, it has actually been possible to discuss the rest of the chapters in which the reserves were held. In fact, now in this Spanish presidency, Slovenia has no reservation to open these remaining three chapters. Look ahead, so what's our perspective? I think that's what we often do, I think that's what we all talk about most, and that's actually in the end, although I agree with it most importantly, the substance of the negotiations itself, the substance of what we do, so the most important thing of all, is that we do this whole job well for ourselves. Of course, the possibility of entering the European Union will also be the result, but above all as a transition country, as a country that has suffered in the recent past war and times, and we are still in the recovery phase, I think it is for the most important and that this will be the most direct benefit for our citizens, so when the negotiations are over, we will, in fact, end the process and the renewal and transition and the negotiations themselves as such. Which affects the conclusion of the negotiations. We heard about this today during the discussion of individual colleagues and colleagues, I think it is always important to repeat that Croatia has found itself in one special position, that after the entry of these last 12 members, and especially after Bulgaria and Romania have entered, a new, new way of negotiating with these criteria, which has both its good and its bad side. The good news is what we have been agreeing with the European Union since the beginning is that it will prevent one member from entering unprepared in the future and that then the European Union itself is in trouble and in difficult situations where it still has to control its current members as if they are in the accession process. This will not happen to Croatia, because we have standards and this will not happen to Croatia because the European Union has made it clear, so those mechanisms of control as they were during these earlier enlargements will not be introduced, I say, especially in the last enlargement. So as far as the criteria are concerned, that's good, because I think it's good for the European Union, but it's also good for the credibility of the new Member State. Why isn't it good? It is not good because this methodology throughout this bureaucracy, which is extremely complex then also means a time-requiring procedure within the Commission, within the Council of the European Union with all 27 members, so that further... The process, it extends the process and what would have been completed earlier in the earlier methodology with this new approach extends negotiations in a particular area of two, three and perhaps several months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't think we should forget it when we talk about why some things are taking longer than we might want, and we think objectively we should. What's the other side? The other side I think is equally important, which is that it is forgotten that at least three sides participate in the negotiations, and I would say that 29 parties participate, so the Republic of Croatia participates, the European Commission participates as they like to say fair mediator and the 27 Member States participate, so every Member State in the Council's multi-layer procedure can set obstacles that are visible, invisible, but our negotiators are well-accessed and well-knowledged, so we are negotiating in a club of 29, and of course it is never easy because different countries have different approaches and different interests in certain issues. Which, of course, affects this how quickly we will conclude the negotiations, of course the overall environment, about this same speech today, the mood in the European Union about the enlargement policy itself, if you have read today's interview with Commissioner Phille, he says that it is a positive environment, I would say that it is moderately positive, because some countries that have definitely advocated enlargement for various reasons have become more cautious in earlier stages. So the moderate positive approach of the European Union to enlargement is one of the most successful policies of the European Union, and therefore it is important that Croatia also ends these negotiations successfully for Croatia and the European Union and as a message for future members, so our particular countries from our environment that are on the road, but I say we should not forget that there is a skeptic, especially in some countries with citizens in so-called Member States, and there is, of course, a financial and economic crisis that has turned the focus of the public, the focus of the governments of the European Union on internal issues and overall issues, here we see when the issue of Greece is on the agenda to see that it is not only the issue of Greece and their economic problems and financial problems, but also the issue and the survival of the euro area, etc. So it's a very complex story, so say and before we've had certain dates, we always have to have dates, because you need to know what time you want something and you can do it. I think it is good that Croatia still aims to complete negotiations by the end of this year, I personally believe it is feasible, but it is not easy. So first of all, on this point, I'm not talking about the subjective issues, something earlier that was said, so we have a question of meeting the criteria in the judiciary chapter and fundamental rights, we also have a competition, we have some more ground to close with certain chapters in agriculture, etc., so these are all serious issues, but I think it's a question of all the issues when we're going to open Chapter 23, because it may be more than any other issue becoming in some way a political assessment of how ready we are. So there are a lot of technical negotiations, but nothing is so technical that it could not be political, and Chapter 23 specifically expressess this political dimension. If we, of course, are working on our part and we are doing everything to show that in this chapter we are on a good path, I don't think anyone expects that certain structural problems that have existed for decades, that they are suddenly solved in two years, but there is a clear expectation that in some things a very clear, very specific direction is being set and that, to be clear that Croatia is going in this direction, and in this direction, the Croatian government makes everything that happens exactly the way and I think that what we have heard and the last days of Minister Simonovic very clearly showed it. So when we open chapter 23, obviously it won't be at this next intergovernmental conference in 19, and we hope it'll be on the first one behind it. Then it may take us a few months to verify those closing criteria by half a year. What I think is a good thing that the negotiating team is fostering and the government as the work of all these years in which we are negotiating, is that we are not waiting for the other side to write everything on paper, there are informal contacts, there are clear indications of what the closing criteria will be, there are clear indications that we are on the way, whether we are good or still need to do at least when it comes to the European Commission. So what is good about this team working well, and I would also like to congratulate the main negotiator, all negotiators and those working in working groups, but also, above all, the Croatian government, that this job has been well set up and that this job is really well done. So the plan is to finish negotiations by the end of this year. Whether this will be achieved depends largely on how much I agree on us and to prove our credibility in this everything we need to do, but it certainly depends on each individual Member State and its assessment on how many issues we have managed to fill out for different reasons. And finally, why is it important for Croatia to achieve its goal, to actually complete the negotiations this year? The ratification procedure if there is a political will can be completed regardless of what is very complex in the different countries of the procedure. So in Belgium you have 7 levels to ratify. If there's a will it can end in a year. Which means we can join the EU in 2012. This is important for Croatia. I will only limit myself to financial aspects, directly because of that big package that the EU has set for Croatia, so 3.5 billion euros for 2012 and 2013, due to a better position in the negotiations for the next financial perspective of 2014-2021, because of the fact that we will then sit at the table and decide on it, and there are indirectly many financial benefits. I would just say that Croatia as a member will be more attractive to investment, that it will certainly as well as be more orderly and orderly than it is now able to have a better credit rating. What will further initiate investment and due to the high growth rates that can be, so in Croatia it is possible, because of all these investments that Croatia will attract as a member, but also because of the direct effect of these funds that are available to us. Here, for all these reasons, the HDZ Club supports this report, and I think, that is, I hope that we will only have a discussion of the two presidencies. So, the present and future and that we're actually going to talk about ratification next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51008	Thank you. So we're done discussing clubs and we're moving on to a debate individually. The first is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51009	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I will briefly look back even though this period is limited, but this problem with Chapter 23 hangs as Damokl's sword over Croatia and does not solve these problems but begins to solve. I'm just going to look back at this period when some things happened, and unfortunately after that, I don't think we're going to limit ourselves normally for that period because we all really care about Chapter 23, Chapter Justice and Human Rights as soon as possible and close as possible. It is true that much has been done in this time since 2000, but that simply some things, especially a political environment in which the full independence of the judiciary needs to happen, which is the ultimate goal, then its efficiency and ultimately that citizens themselves are satisfied. Namely, it concerns one fact that has occurred and cannot be left undetected. Namely, the head of one intelligence agency of the Operational Technical Centre for Telecommunications has caused nothing, I guess surrounded by what and what kind of political climate he has chosen to issue a binding warrant, instructing all municipal and county courts to record, that is, when the court approves the recording warrants at the request of the State's Attorney's Office have been performed through the OTC. No matter how he understood the Law on Intelligence and Security Communities for any such doubt exists, but otherwise to address the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Hrvatin, the President who is the only one by law and by sound logic and by the Constitution, is the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. So this gentleman thus committed an unprecedented blow to the independence of the judiciary, and I think it's inadmissible. Of course, when President Hrvatin heard about it, he had no idea that he would listen to such orders as he had heard from his presidents from municipal and county courts. And that's one recklessness, but that shouldn't have happened. However, what worries is that the Prime Minister did not refer to this. It's not a good message for all the cases that are in front of our courts, to those who are, who need to be solved, and to all those who will come. No matter what we enjoyed, who knows what kind of warrants and oral and secret and public, but for the first time anyone dared to give a written order. Now, what will the EU think about what kind of judicial reform it is when intelligence communities can order all municipal and county courts in the Republic of Croatia? And that no one reacts alive from the top of the state. No one's responding alive. The Prime Minister was on an official trip to Russia at the time. However, she did not find herself later to react to it. I think it's always time, it's been a while now, but it would be good, the President of the Supreme Court, of course, reacted, but it would be good if someone, as Prime Minister at the head of the executive office, especially her, were fenced by that and that someone was carrying concessions for such a job. Because it certainly doesn't qualify us as a country that's ready to take its paws off the court. Equally, the public gets the impression that even the police don't act entirely on their own. Unfortunately, we often have in the amended laws that we have adapted above all to our desire to be as effective in our actions as possible, especially in the latest criminal proceedings, where we have provided an investigation into the state's attorney's office. The State Attorney's Office gives binding orders to the police, but you see the government wasn't prepared as in that initial idea when we prepared management in 2002 and formed the Working Group for the making of this very important law, that the government be prepared to be part of its police forces, regular forces, as part of the executive authority in that segment, not only to be made available but also to the responsibility of whoever issued the warrants, i.e. State's attorney's office. Now we have a strange situation. Here is the vice president of the Parliament, the second to call such a certain solution a strange beak. Because the State's Attorney's Office is giving binding orders to the police, and the police are not responsible for the done job to the State's Attorney's office, but they can possibly answer to their director or minister if they call him to account at all. And that's not a good thing. Because we've given great authority to the State's Attorney's office, but he's also responding to the State's Attorney's Attorney's Office, responsible for the outcome of the trial, for the success of the proceedings, who persecutes him, what are his indictments, who are the evidence. But if there's no police at the end who's going to be in charge of that part of the job, and it's not going to be good. We already see in the beginning of this new application that this is puzzling, that there are open conflicts somewhere latent between the police forces and the state's attorney's office. The police must understand that in a free country is part of the executive government, that it is not a judicial authority and that it cannot be evaluated by such demands. It bears the belief that something has been done. But the final decision on that is part of the judiciary. Either the State's Attorney's office at the beginning or the court if there's a trial. That's what they have to get inside their heads to do. But I say and repeat when part of the intelligence community gives and sees nothing controversial, the Prime Minister sees nothing controversial, that this one behind her gives a binding order to municipal and county courts and that no one is alive, then anything is possible. It's a dangerous procedure, it's an unprecedented procedure. And that's not good if we want to open chapter 23 on justice and human rights as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51010	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51011	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The Rules of Procedure were injured in the part where MP Antičević-Marinović actually did not speak for a period of 7.8 minutes about the six-month-long report under the Swedish presidency, but took advantage of the opportunity of the afternoon silence to hold a lecture that may have indirect links. But that wasn't even the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51012	All right, you're welcome to proceed immediately, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51013	We are alone, as we have heard from the main negotiator in the conclusion of the accession negotiations. It should be said that both the Government and the Parliament have done their job well and should do it again. The fact is that we have adopted more than 472 laws, more than a thousand sublegal acts throughout this four-year period, and during the Swedish Presidency a lot of chapters have also been opened, and most importantly, what has been achieved is a political agreement on dealing with the border issue between Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia and that negotiations have been deblocked by Slovenia. Although there was a blockade in the first part of this reporting period this 6 months last year, our country has made significant technical and substantive progress. So it wasn't a waste of time, no matter what the blockade was, and that ultimately resulted in the greatest color of temporarily closed chapters during one presidency. Three meetings of the Intergovernmental Conference on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union were held at which I will repeat once again negotiations were opened in 6 chapters and 10 chapters were provisionally closed, making up figures of 28 open and 17 closed chapters. All documents relevant for the fulfilment of the closing criteria and the remaining three chapters have also been submitted to the European Union. Unfortunately, not all reserves of some Member States in relation to the formal opening of chapter 23, which represents the biggest problem, the judiciary and fundamental rights, have been removed during the Swedish Presidency and related to meeting the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. In addition to the accession negotiations, the Republic of Croatia and the European Union continued at other levels during this six-month period, which is the continuation of the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, then the political dialogue between the European Union and Croatia was continued within the Stabilisation Council. The implementation of the priorities and recommendations of the European Commission's 2008 and 2009 progress report was also continued. Next, the use of pre-accession assistance to the European Union, etc. Two very important documents were created during this period, and this is the annual progress report and the 2009 Strategy. I also think it is very important that a financial package for Croatia's accession to the European Union has taken place in this period, where we have heard that more than three and a half billion euros are being worked. And what is very important is that an ad hoc working group was established to create a Croatian accession contract. What we haven't heard, and what we've heard from other colleagues at which stage is the work group's work on making an access contract, so it would be good for Mr. Drobnjak to say something final about it. Of course, the Lisbon Agreement, which is of one, should not be left out either. 12. In 2009, and where we are, we hope, 28 Member States. It is not too bad to say that all this is what we're talking about means that these 6 months have been in very difficult conditions not only for Croatia but also for Europe, so there has been a financial crisis that is still under way, then the fight against unemployment that has hit the whole of Europe and our country. But we should not forget here and the current fight against climate change that also runs not only in Europe but throughout the world. What we're all wondering about these days, which is if we can finish the job this year. Of course, dynamics depend not only on the Republic of Croatia, but also on the European Commission as well as on all Member States. So there are many factors affecting the dynamics, as Mrs Pejcinović-Buric said on behalf of the HDZ club. It's about 29 factors and it's not easy to do all that. We know there's still a lot of work to do. I would also like to remind myself that this is a permanent business, so it is not only about opening and closing chapters, but also about making sure that as a Member State we will be obliged to comply with the law with the European Union and that it is a permanent business that we need to coordinate the legislation that we have already changed, that it will be one, I will use the English word, monitoring constantly that speaks of the need to apply new directives and constantly align the laws. I'd just like to ask one rhetorical question. In 2004, we said that quality is more important than speed, today after almost 9 years after we have started negotiations, we can repeat this question as important or quality, but if quality is then it is certain that we will enter the European Union in the way we want to, which is that we are fully prepared and that we have actually met all the criteria, unlike those countries that have entered, the last two countries that I am not talking about right now. I can only say in the end that probably, my thinking, that for the European Union as well, this was important for the process to take a long time, and that perhaps through Croatia it is intended to send a message to others in the region, you can, too, if you do what the Republic of Croatia has done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51014	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51015	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Ambassador, colleagues and colleagues. Regardless of expectations or wishes to join the European Union as soon as possible, I am still satisfied with how things are going, especially with my own testimony on certain occasions, and I think it is to commend the work of the Government and the work of the Parliament, but also above all and the work of the negotiating team, and I would especially like to praise Mr Drobnjak in this regard because I am also a witness to his efforts and the results that he has achieved in communication with others. The period of the Swedish Presidency is certainly in a certain way and not only in a certain way but also in a documented way a single acceleration in the development of negotiations and accession of Croatia to the European Union, opening and closing chapters according to their turn. As a member of the joint parliamentary committee between the Croatian Parliament and the European Parliament, I have been on several occasions since the start of the mandate until today to participate in these talks. I point out this for a simple reason to show how at these meetings on occasion the mood has changed for us and how this mood towards us has been increasingly kind compared to one very restrictive one, I would say this ex-cated behavior, especially some MPs. Today, it is a very kind and acceptable behavior of people who would like us to do all the things that are potentially controversial in all this together. The Joint Parliamentary Committee held the last meeting where I was in Strasbourg and I have the impression that it went very, very well, that not only the members of the European Parliament's delegation, but also the members of the European Commission, as well as observers who expressed great satisfaction with the developments in the accession of the Croatian European Union. I especially remembered one observer speaker who pointed out that in previous times they thought it would be very difficult for us to meet all the criteria of environmental protection and that they thought that in this respect we went very far ahead, and in certain segments even more than some or most European countries in this regard. Of course, as regards environmental protection, the issue of treatment of space and ecological criteria is also related to energy. The media and the public are often pointed out what counterpart Antičević-Marinović said... 23 Indeed, the issue of justice, state and administration is extremely important because of the simple order in a country that will be a member of the European Union, and they have withdrawn because of some who have entered without such results or solutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in addition to corruption as a topic that we have to fight for ourselves, because of my own hygiene, my impression was, my personal impression that the issue of shipbuilding as one of the elements that needs to be solved was very accentuated, because the issue of shipbuilding is the ratio of the budgetary treatment of shipbuilding in Croatia and the attitude towards this general activity very important in seeing the equality of all in the European Union. And the issue of corruption is something that every country must fight for itself and of course we must continue through a solution to corruption, but it is not just corruption. In addition to corruption itself, it is pure crime, which does not necessarily mean corruption. But also in the state of justice and administration it is very important to say that this judiciary must function independently, it means that it is relieved of all the pressures that come from politics, whether from Croatia itself or from abroad, but also from pressures that are placed across the media to work as well as at the level of Europe's most developed countries to which we strive in this regard. Certainly with the period of the Presidency of the Swedish European Union, we can be and we must be very pleased because the assessment of the relationship with Croatia during that time was very positive. On my part, expectations are even higher in Spain. These six months until the end of what will come, knowing Spain from nearer, having these contacts can testify about a very positive mood towards Croatia and the desire to help Croatia to remove all obstacles that stand in its way as soon as possible. I am also convinced, or at least I can say that I have a well-founded hope that by the end of this year we will end all negotiations, all the problems in the area of negotiation, opening and closing chapters, come to an end and that next year we should mark a ratification that allegedly depends on the mood and technology in certain countries may last shorter or longer than expected, what counterpart Maria said up to a year. What convinces me of the foreign diplomats that I have been in contact with and as a member of Parliament, in fact, of this joint parliamentary committee, but also as a member of parliament that he is meeting, that there is really no such thing as the framework of our approach to the European Union as more of the problem of a political orientation or of a position or of a particular mood that practically the only framework for solving everything is the question of the calendar, the number of days available and during which time... There are some things technically I can do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all this question of the mood of certain countries for enlargement or not, Croatia has entered that path and this story can only continue faster or slower, depending on how it will all arrive at individual sessions together. In any case, I hope that this trip to the European Union that can be really called, interpreted or told or metaphorically said the feathers of the adastre feather because indeed that thorn on our path to Europe was, that we will reach those stars at the beginning of 2012 and I would like to say from the end of my presentation that all together sounds very optimistic, very promising that our goal will be achieved relatively quickly. And what this really time is passing in an hour, this term of office is already over half over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51016	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51017	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Drobnjak. When I read this 8th in a row if I'm not mistaken, I asked myself a question and I asked you about the content of the report, the time and the way in which you conduct the negotiations of Croatia's entry into the European Union? On whose behalf will we vote on the acceptance or refusal of this report on Friday? On whose behalf do you say you opened a chapter and someone closed it? Let me just have a few quotes from the apparition. Croatia opened negotiations in chapters 4, 11, 12, 16, 22, 24, and temporarily closed 2nd, 6th, 18th, 21st, 29th, 9th, 15th, 28, 27th, not that date of forgiveness, 3rd and 19th. It also states that during the Swedish Presidency, the reserves of some Member States of the European Union have not been removed with regard to the formal opening of Chapter 23 of the judiciary and with regard to the fulfilment of certain obligations of the Republic of Croatia, etc. The Government of the Republic of Croatia points to the conclusion of the Council of the European Union on 8 December 2009 in which the Council welcomes the establishment of a working group to draw up a draft accession contract for Croatia, which started on 16 December 2009. Croatia will become an EU member in January 2012. Maybe someone from Croatia is taking part in this working group for making and preparing contracts, access contracts, maybe not, I don't know, doesn't write. Then one title of the criteria for opening, Croatia received a total of 23 criteria, and the negotiating positions were found in chapter 31, and the opening criteria say that Croatia has received 82 of them in total so far. What do you think colleagues and colleagues from this debate today and this report will have the opportunity to hear about this content of the report tomorrow or tonight, meaning Chapter 23, 19, 2, 8, some country, some obligations, which means a negotiating position, opening criteria and closing criteria for them. When, if ever, who and how will start communicating with those who make a decision after us to enter Croatia into the European Union? Do you believe that accepting such reports in the Croatian Parliament is the final decision on Croatia's entry into the European Union? It seems to me that in the proposed amendments to the Constitution and by the Government, and that side of the opposition is not cleared from the provision that citizens in the referendum decide on Croatia's entry into the European Union. Croatia will enter the European Union in 2012, the Commissioners of the European Commission voiced confidence, provided that Croatian citizens accept such a decision in the referendum. Based on what? What information in the contents of the closed chapters should they make their decision on how they will vote in the referendum? What do the citizens of Croatia know so far, what did you and your associates negotiate in closed chapters on the negotiating team? You know what the perception of the citizens that you government and all of us are going to call for a referendum and we will ask them to vote for the decision of Croatia's entry. For example. Fishermen. It's all Europe's fault, because everything that's wrong with them, we answer to them that it's a alignment with Europe. Farmers in the continental part of Croatia have learned that they must pay taxes per pot for roasting brandy because it is the adjustment of Europe. Nobody told them that before until the inspections came out on the field and stamped the boilers, because we don't have communication with people. The farmers who were on tractors, no one told them that Croatia in the negotiating positions identified a change in the policy of fostering agricultural production and those who said they would be first on tractors were not the first on tractors because they participated in establishing negotiating positions for the area of agriculture, because we ourselves took over the change in food production policy in politics, and that this model that we have and will not be worth it. Carriers, road haulers, I'm not taking any more examples now so I don't insult anyone. Whenever a problem breaks, whenever a smaller or larger group of citizens, entrepreneurs organised or disorganized are our answers to them we always have to because it is an adjustment to Europe. But before anyone in this country accepts and understands them, the language does not present closed negotiating chapters. We're throwing ourselves around with standards, attitudes, open and closed chapters, and we think we've done a great deal of good. And the preparation and implementation of the referendum and the amount of money it will take to invest in a good campaign to convince people to go out and vote for it will be the cost of no one communicating with citizens now. Is there a strategy in the government, on the negotiating team, anywhere, I ask, maybe you know, I don't know, that in the end citizens will be interpreted as the content of an access contract? As far as I know, it's not a 10-page or 100-page contract. It's a few thousand-page text. Will we then retroactively retaliate to the citizens that it has already been negotiated and that you now take it or leave it? What is also the benefit of such a report as the Report on the work of the National Committee if citizens, therefore those who will make the last decision on it, receive information on a drop-off exclusively bureaucratic, diplomatic dictionary using more foreign words than domestic ones, and we ourselves must mean that they must vote in this referendum for Croatia's entry into the EU? Therefore, it would be good to write the following report, either last or least, in such a way that it is not intended for parliamentary representatives, which we, by our official duty, need to know far more than that. I would like the negotiating committee and you as the head of the negotiating committee to prepare a report for the citizens of this country. Not to me, not to us here in this hall, but to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to all those who have the right to vote and who, in accordance with any constitutional changes, will make the last decision. I also understand the need to use diplomatic language in such reports, but I really expect from you a final report from the nation, the people, the country before the writing of an access contract for Croatia's entry into the EU is completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51018	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51019	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And to talk about something, you should know first of all what they're talking about. That's my brief comment on what I heard in the last presentation. Therefore, the Report on the course of the negotiating process relating to the period under which Sweden chaired the EU Council has indeed brought a significant, positive turn in the overall negotiating process for Croatia. When we discussed the course of the negotiation process that applied to the first six months. for the past year, in 2009, then we pointed out no matter what we were in the blockade at the time, that the business that the Croatian government, the Croatian Parliament and the negotiating team are doing is actually very busy and simply brings all that is needed in order to ultimately when the negotiations are unblocked take place one accelerated course and opening and closing chapters. And fortunately, we were right back then. Because despite the fact that in the first six months of last year there was no progress at all in this second six-month period today and this significant turnaround happened. Because six chapters opened and 10 chapters closed. In the short term, it was the biggest success of the negotiating team, but at the same time it was a great success of the Croatian government that had just done everything to measure the closure of these 10 chapters, i.e. the criteria for opening 6 chapters. Which means that Croatia has done a lot of things both in reforms and in everything that should have been done to make it happen. But a key event in this period from July 1st to December 31st last year was actually an agreement between the two prime ministers. Between Prime Minister Kosor and Prime Minister Pahor. Because the agreement they reached, then the agreement on an arbitration agreement that was ratified in the Croatian Parliament, actually paved the way for the deblocking of negotiations imposed by Slovenia, which did not correspond naturally to Slovenia and neither to Croatia. So, the key event was this fact that with this step forward and actually showing a very clear desire for the Republic of Croatia to deal with open issues in an open bilateral discussion on the well-being of both sides has actually opened up a continuation of negotiations and has actually accelerated the overall course of things. After that, he said everything would go the way we expected, what we expected and expected. And afterwards, the European Commission began, but first and foremost, the European Parliament had frameworks, dates that made it clear to the extent that Croatia could complete the negotiations. And of course you showed up that date, the desired date, and that's during this year. Which is also clearly expressed by the European Commission, but very firmly also by the European Parliament that Croatia can complete its negotiations during 2010 and that it can become a full member of the EU already in January 2012. Of course, if the ratification process is followed by the conclusion of the negotiations and, of course, the decision on a referendum by Croatian citizens on Croatia's entry if the ratification process is completed within a year. So these are all concrete frames. As my colleague Roshin said, that time is passing quickly and quite certainly that we will have opportunities very quickly, I am sure, to participate in all these next moves that should be made after the conclusion of the negotiations themselves. Therefore, the opening of these chapters, or the opening of chapters and closing of chapters, was preceded by our work in the Croatian Parliament, which is why it is a wonder that individual parliamentary deputies are asking the main negotiator what this is about in the negotiations, which is what we have said to the Croatian public every day when we in the Croatian Parliament are discussing legislation that must be adapted to the European Union. So every day on our agenda are the laws in which Croatia adapts to the European Union. In which we clearly state the views of the ministries and governments and, of course, the views of all our clubs on this issue. It's really amazing where these people are sitting then. Do they sit in the Croatian Parliament or elsewhere? Are they even following the meetings of the Croatian Parliament when I can ask such unsolicited questions that I don't say anything else. So, even on today's agenda ahead of us, we also have some laws that concern precisely adapting Croatian legislation and harmonising with European legislation. So it is truly amazing that such questions can be asked today at all, but here is the fact that they are also being asked in the Croatian Parliament. That's why I said in the opening part, that there's something to know first that we could talk about what's on the agenda. Furthermore, of course the Lisbon Agreement has contributed to another climate in terms of enlargement, as a possible non-proliferation of the European Union has been mentioned before. And that is why the Lisbon Agreement, or its adoption, has changed the climate of enlargement and the creation of a new institutional framework for the European Union. And in this regard, we do not think that in Croatia alone we should risk any moves to delay this process. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the latest press conference by SDP President Zoran Milanovic is going in this direction one way I would say "risk", as regards the constitutional changes that are necessary for Croatia to join the referendum at all and that it could join the European Union at all. Today's statements and accusations against HDZ, that HDZ is obstructing constitutional changes, are completely inappropriate and are not based on facts. On the contrary. The necessary changes to join the European Union are just trying to distract SDP President Zoran Milanovic, who changes these changes, i.e. the vote for three changes, condition some interests that come from the SDP and concern Croatian citizens outside Croatia. Such behaviour is unacceptable, by the more the SDP has repeatedly publicly expressed its position to absolutely support everything that is related to Croatia's accession to the European Union. It is, therefore, surprising today's statement that it is trying to transfer the ball to the HDZ's side on constitutional changes. So a completely unfounded and untrue claim by the president of the SDP. I hope that we will not come to the Assembly with a proposal for constitutional change and that the SDP does not vote for constitutional changes that will mean Croatia's future accession to the European Union. So I deeply believe that such a situation will not occur. ... Here we hear from the SDP ranks. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51020	Voting, voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51021	Yes, it's quite clear that it will. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51022	Hold on. I listen to you, I don't listen to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51023	It is therefore totally unacceptable that the talks on constitutional changes that are necessary for Croatia to join the European Union are taking place in this direction. I want to commend here the work of the negotiating team at the head with Mr. Drobnjak, who has done a great deal. We also had several discussions on the National Committee following the negotiations, but we were particularly interested in the discussion of the last in which we discussed with all the negotiators for certain areas, i.e. for certain chapters that are not open, in fact, all that is before us and all that needs to be done in a short period. And I'm really convinced that we can finish this job by the end of this year. Of course, the most difficult question will certainly be chapter 23, but we believe in its opening this year and closing in the fall. And I'm sure that'll happen. And therefore full support to the negotiating team, full support to the government that has done everything to get us into one positive situation for the Republic of Croatia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51024	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51025	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Smally, colleagues and colleagues. I am not going to discuss assumptions like my colleague Frane was saying about how the SDP would vote, but I am going to say purely pragmatically a few things that apply to this report that I read and are about how primarily to close some chapters that I'm going to say something about. Because the fact is that Sweden's presidency is a turning point, a milestone that triggered these negotiations, normally related to the debates and the agreement between our prime minister and the prime minister of the Slovenian government. But the question is, how do you end this and what do you do next? How can this turning point enable a successful conclusion? A successful conclusion is certainly closing these open chapters. At the time of this session, it is visible that the chapters mentioned here are open, but I would look back at only two. This is agriculture and rural development, chapters 11 and 12. - Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary surveillance. We have opened these two chapters, which are also discussed under certain and legal provisions of the law adopted by this Assembly, and, of course, it has resulted in the measures that we have also obtained for the opening of Chapter 11. That is one criterion, says chapter 12.4. It was likely also fulfilled through this parliamentary procedure, or debate, as well as the legislation that we had adopted. And now the question is how and how to close these chapters because they are, as it is said here, also related to the withdrawal of certain funds of these chapters, and Chapter 11 refers to agriculture and about around 700 million euros that agriculture should receive. Or, in fact, how to complete all these chapters, the remaining three open and shut everything down and enter 2012 because we assume that then these 3.5 billion in 2012 and 2013 should be realized and certain that our economy and everything else, as well as the policy that counts on these funds as such, should be achieved. Because what it means is if we don't enter in 2012, how much it's a loss of resources that we can withdraw as a member, how many losses are related to our status, there have been speeches and the introduction of new investments, the safety of one different that we have, the status that we have. Therefore, 2010 and the end of the negotiations are one of the important things. This is no longer a question we will work in quality, so when we are done because we have come to such a stage that 2010 should be the year of the end of these negotiations. Normally, it is something that needs to be realized in the next period and through these constitutional changes, which has been mentioned, but also to meet certain criteria that we need to have in order to close some chapters. I'll go back to chapter 11. Agriculture where we need three criteria or this food chapter 12, also three criteria. However, the question arises, and that is also expressed, that we are for chapter 11. – Agriculture and rural development which represents one of Europe's fundamental policies, which is a fact. Agriculture is one of the fundamental policies that Europe has come into being and is now being united and the question is how to meet those criteria in order to close this chapter. Why does it matter? Well, it's important because I know or see from the programme we've had, one of the sure demands is that we agree our aid law in agriculture and fisheries and rural development with those in Europe. That's what we've been doing here for years. The first such Law on State aid in agriculture, fisheries and forestry was adopted in this House in 23.7.2002. What's been going on ever since? So since then, there have been changes to these laws to pass a new law last year, and before that there have been six amendments, and I guess three regulations or two regulations that have been adopted where certain articles have been exchanged, but none of these changes have led us to that status that these support in agriculture are according to the currents which the European Union has highlighted as such. Why is that necessary? Well, there's a need to coordinate because we probably won't be able to close chapter 11. And I happened to be a witness when statesmen from other countries mentioned exactly the part that we are not in agreement and that we need to agree, and according to what Europe has now at this point, which are three basics of payments, from direct payments, intervention measures and measures to support rural development. This means that we need to change all of what is happening with us today in order for that 686 million-euro envelope to be available to us, which means that 54% can be direct payments, 46% for rural development. Unfortunately, today with our legislation, that is, with this law, we have not yet defined it. I read and I see that the government has arrived and has set up a reform of agricultural policy related to support. I believe that soon she as such will come to this Parliament. Therefore, on this one example, I wanted to say that the closure of the chapter is again about certain standards and that this has one particular meaning in the accession negotiations, or for the closure of these negotiations, and I therefore expect that in the following report, or reports, when we mention the criteria that we still need to close a chapter, that perhaps more emphasis on what activities this Assembly should do and that it should come to a certain chapter and close. Here's a guess I had, let's say I did, and I heard that aid law as one of the key ones, so that this chapter would shut down what normally remained in the others, and they're also giving us some needs to solve in the parliamentary procedure in order to eventually close the whole chapter because today the closure of the whole negotiations is also about the funds that it should be in 2012 and '13. the years to withdraw as such or use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51026	Thank you. One replica. Mr. Representative, Dr. Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bodakoš mentioned the issue of agriculture, it is certainly a very important and important question and how much to do in the legal part, so I think in that part, that we seemed as much as our colleague Matušić did, but it is also very important to say here that there has been a lot at the level of the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture as to the competitiveness of our agriculture that our farmer be competitive as such entering the European Union. So we see in other countries that are already members of the European Union, here I am just reading these days in neighbouring Hungary that they are simply looking for a postponement for a while of agriculture, agriculture is a very specific branch very important and important, I think our ministry and government are leading very well in this direction, but that further efforts must certainly be made to make competitive approaches to that European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51028	Replication response, Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51029	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Milinkovic, well, the fact is that we must have one condition in our agriculture, but precisely because we have adapted our legal provisions to those which are European, then we would, we would not have had these last protests that we had here when it was only mentioned that 40% would be reduced, that 40% of the support would be cut out, why it did not decrease in previous years, or go to one major part to transfer these funds to the rural part, and this direct giving decrease. It's a problem that we're late in that part, and I'm afraid that even now that you've read this reform, you'll see what they're like and how much they reduce the funds in direct giving, and the question of how much we're capable of rural development to withdraw, that is. Otherwise, the Support Act is really specific and Europe is with its support for changing them, changing them at that stage when it became self-sufficient, when it created more, more production than it needed, then it began to change in terms of this transition from directly to the rural part. Until then, she was even charging and paying to, after that, pay for not to sow, and before that, she gave her hand and hat. Now you can't, as we say, have to be adapted to it, and if we don't adapt I don't know, here's Mr. Drobnjak probably knows more about the question of whether Chapter 11 is going to close like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51030	Thank you. Final review, chief negotiator of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, Mr Vladimir Drobnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51031	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin by thanking everyone for the words of support, but also for all the comments and suggestions that have been made, believe that we on the negotiating team listen carefully and carefully to them. I'll try to answer a few questions that's been asked, maybe I won't go straight. At first, I think it is very well pointed out that the institutional crisis that has been burdening the European Union for a long time has not been an incentive atmosphere for our negotiations. This is true, the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty is significantly improved but this shows that every global tectonic disorder of a type of crisis within the European Union is also collateralised to a wider atmosphere. There have been several questions concerning the working group for the construction of accession contracts. So for starters, let me explain that there are two working groups. There is a working group in Brussels consisting of representatives of Member States, 27 of them, and there is a working group established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and operating here in Croatia, and the whole process acts in a way that the draft contract is drawn up at this stage. We are currently in a phase of technical adaptations, i.e. technical adaptations, and the emphasis is on those chapters that are already temporarily closed, where everything is defined and where the Brussels Working Group is installing certain elements of the contract, and then bringing attention to us for verification, we are also in an extensive dialogue with the European Commission on translation of professional terminology into the Croatian language which will be one of the official languages of the European Union, because accession contracts will certainly be in the Croatian version of the signing and this is a process that is also ongoing. I'd say a lot of work was done in technical adaptations. As for the making of the very accession contract in some other parts he is still at the initial stage, but I think the dynamic is good, and we will inform you when you accumulate enough information regarding the contract itself, of course. When it comes to preparations for the use of funds, I would like to point out that this is about chapter 22. Regional policy and structural funds that have 7 closure criteria and these 7 criteria are actually a pattern for our action, for our action, and meeting these 7 criteria will significantly enhance... The administrative capacity of the Republic of Croatia and the compliance criteria for the closure of Chapter 22 are not seen as some penance or imposed obligation, but as a welcome guide to how our structures should be reformed in order to make maximum use of the 3 and a half billion dollars that will be on the table. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to point out once again that we have delivered all the negotiating positions and all the negotiating positions of course passed the National Committee and got its consent and I think it is unusually important here in the Croatian Parliament to underline the fact that for all chapters the National Committee has consensually supported all 33 negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia. I think it's an information that's absolutely worth the attention. As for Chapter 23, we received a call for the submission of the negotiating position on 18 February 18, 18 February, we received that call following the European Union and Member States' assessment that we met all the criteria for opening the chapter. If we hadn't met those standards, we wouldn't have been called. On the next day of February 19th, we handed over our negotiating position, and when the chapter will formally open it is now not just up to us, and I think it is one example, enough has been said that the speed in these negotiations is not only dependent on the Republic of Croatia. We expect criteria for closing Chapter 23, that will be known as soon as possible and as soon as we get the closing criteria we will naturally apply the same time to the job. We know about what it will contain, but it is unusually important to read exactly and detail how the formulations will be and for us the criteria for closing Chapter 23 will be an operational form for handling in 3 basic areas covering Chapter 23, which are judicial reform, the fight against corruption and protection of minority and fundamental rights. It's about, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know about truly one huge job. Perhaps just to mention that from the beginning of the negotiations here in the Croatian Parliament were adopted 472 so-called. The EU law and over 1100 sublegal acts have been adopted, and already these figures speak for themselves. But once again, it should be pointed out that negotiations are taking place in a significantly different atmosphere. As for enlargement policy and global scales as well as the five rounds of enlargement. And in these circumstances, the fact that we are in the final stage has an additional value and special weight. Of course, there are criteria for opening and closing that have made work more difficult. In any case, we on our part will do everything in our power to close all chapters in this year. I repeat, I still think it's possible. I accept the observation that this is difficult, but now it's mid-April, I don't think there's any reason for pessimism. We will, I repeat, make maximum effort, but speed is not exclusively up to us. The issue of agriculture, let me explain. As regards Chapter 12. – Food safety, phytosanitary and veterinary components, this chapter is practically over. It does not have that fiscal dimension as Chapter 11. - Agriculture. We have met all the closing criteria and we are in the final consultations, so today one round of the latest technical consultations in the European Commission has been carried out and I think we will close this chapter in June. I don't see any reason not to. As for agriculture, so the change in the incentive policy does not mean giving up on incentives, it just means creating conditions for obtaining generous EU agricultural funds amounting to over 600m euros annually. What's important is that we create the necessary administrative frameworks for that. In particular, I think of the paying agency that I think is in a more advanced phase of the structure and a whole series of other accompanying mechanisms. For example, the land particles identification system, etc. Yes, I expect the closure of Chapter 11 in the last quarter of this year. Constitutional changes are mentioned, I just want to, given that this is within the competence of the Croatian Parliament, briefly indicate that constitutional changes are necessary to close several chapters that will not be closed without certain constitutional changes. For example, Chapter 24. – Justice, freedom and security or Chapter 32. Financial supervision. Well, as far as constitutional changes are concerned, that speed is not irrelevant. Quality or speed was also a question. So I'd say that quality is condicio act quo non of this process. And it is through the system of criteria for opening and closing set in a way that without the quality of negotiations simply is not possible to complete. No more unprepared entry into the Union, i.e. from another angle, the system of criteria for opening and closing has been set up in Croatian negotiations by Member States and commissions in a way that guarantees Croatia's full readiness. So quality is in itself day by day through a new system and new rules of negotiations. And as for speed, of course, speed is as important as protecting our national and national interests and we try to go in the given circumstances as quickly as possible. Of course, taking care of our vital interests. And perhaps, at the very end, I would like to commend the Spanish Presidency which has installed as an official part of its policy, namely its strategy on Croatian accession negotiations, to open all and close as many chapters as possible during the Spanish Presidency. It's an officially declared Spanish target. Let us hope that Spain will succeed with us, of course, and all others, and we hope that the quarterly report, or half-yearly report on the Spanish presidency, will eventually record equally good figures, i.e. very good figures. As the Swedish Presidency records it. And of course, in our report and in our address on this report, we must primarily take care of the reporting period on which the subject is concerned, which is the other half of last year. I know that we have now touched a lot of current topics from today, but the subject itself defines that we are primarily dealing with the Swedish presidency which, I repeat, was very successful for us. And thank you again for your support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51032	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. I propose a joint debate on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts and the final proposal of the Act amending the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts. Because both proposed final drafts of the law aside from force lay down a provision on the application of a tax rate of 2% of the special salary tax, pensions and other incomes and benefits of independent activity and other receipts of more than 3 thousand kunas and less than or equal to 6 thousand kunas during the month. ... Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. to resume the session. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-14-0.u51033	We move to the Report on the course of the negotiating process of the Republic of Croatia The European Union during the Presidency of the Kingdom of Sweden to the Council of the European Union, from 1 July to 31 December 2009. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the conclusion that: a report on the course of the negotiation process of the Republic of Croatia is being adopted by the European Union during the Presidency of the Kingdom of Sweden to the Council of the European Union, between 1 July and 31 December 2009. Let's please get involved and vote on this proposal for a report. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 109 votes for, 2 abstentions, nothing against.
