ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64864	... or we begin today's session with the announced agenda item. [[Home is not saved.]] This is - The proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peace operation in Afghanistan (ISAF) is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Articles 4 and 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, police, civil protection, civil servants, deputies in peace operations and other activities abroad. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Branko Vukelic, Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64865	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Before you is the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peace operation in Afghanistan where, as you know, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been involved in this action since 2003. The participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in this peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan contributes significantly to the further construction of the high political and military credibility of the Republic of Croatia within the NATO alliance. The peace operations of ISAF are important because participation in this demanding operation profiles the Republic of Croatia as a reliable member of NATO and the International Community that can meet greater security challenges. The ISAF peace operation is currently being attended by forces from 48 countries and NATO members of the alliance and members of the partnership for peace and other partner countries. The total numbered size is approximately 131 thousand Allied forces. The increase of Allied forces on the ground has been implemented in line with the implementation of the new Allied strategy and the transition process, so it is a process in which the institutions of the Afghan state want to be able to assume responsibility for the peace, stability and development of their country, above all when we talk about the forces of the army and the police of Afghanistan. The current service of the security situation is a response of the rebels to intensive activities of the international community and coalition forces aimed at stabilising the situation and creating a stable environment as a prerequisite for the expansion and strengthening of the legitimacy of state and local authorities in order to political, economic and democratic development of Afghanistan. In order to implement that force, the ISAF significantly increased the number of deployed soldiers. The anti-insurgency operations resulted in positive results and intensive efforts made in training and equipment of the Afghan military and police resulted in the rise of overall operational capacity and their involvement in anti-insurgency operations as participating or implementing forces. The development of the Afghan army is a fundamental long-term ISAF strategy for success. Although the development of Afghan and police forces lags behind the development of the Afghan army, further efforts are being made to train, equip and develop the necessary police forces infrastructure. In accordance with the current Croatian Parliament decision of April this year, up to 320 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia may participate in this peace operation. He's currently been deployed on 16th in a peace operation. Croatian National Contingent, consisting of 319 members. Following a new Allied strategy, which includes ensuring the necessary assumptions for the implementation of the transition process, responsibility for Afghanistan's security and stability to the Afghan national institutions, NATO urged all members, thereby the Republic of Croatia, to contribute to NATO's training mission in Afghanistan as part of the ISAF peacekeeping operation of critical importance to its success. The requirements addressed to the members of the Alliance shall be established in accordance with the assessments of the Supreme Command of Allied Forces and shall be related to the contribution to each particular country to the ISAF Peace Operation participant. Those requirements have been set out on several occasions by competent Allied commanders who are required to further engage our Armed Forces by increasing the number of mentors and instructors for the purposes of training Afghanistan's security forces and by taking over the role of the leading state at the Kabul Military Police School. In line with the above, the Defence Council concluded at a session held in October of this year which requested the Ministry of Defence to consider the possibility of additional training instructors in the ISAF peace operation. Following the request made, the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia carried out an analysis of their ability and was positively responsible for the possibility of additional engagement of up to 30 members of the Armed Forces. Based on an analysis of capabilities carried out and in order to contribute to allied efforts in Afghanistan, it is proposed to increase the current approved size of the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the ISAF peacekeeping operation through an increase of 320 members for the new 30 so that in the next two years, in 2011 and 2012, up to 350 members could participate in the peace operation of Afghanistan, clearly with the possibility of rotation. The above-mentioned increase will allow for increased engagement of mentoring and instructorial capabilities of our Armed Forces and the taking over of the role of the leading state at Kabul Military Police School in order to increase the efficiency and visibility of Croatia's overall contribution to the development of the capacity of Afghan military and police forces. At the same time, this additional engagement contributes to the maintenance of optimal territorial deployment and the internal structure of the Croatian contingent in a peace operation and further strengthens the logistics support of our contingent. The financial resources for the implementation of this decision in 2011 are secured in the state budget at the division of the Ministry of Defence and will be provided for in the 2012 projections of the Ministry of Defence’s 2012 financial plan. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision proposed in 2011 and 2012 to refer up to 350 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to a peace operation in Afghanistan, with the possibility of rotation. The decision proposes to authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the duration of rotation, number and organisational structure of members of the Armed Forces for each rotation. The rotation usually takes 6 months, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia is allowed to determine longer or shorter time. For this decision, the previous consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Josipovic, was made clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64866	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The defense committee? No, I don't. Then I open up the debate and the clubs are up first. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Boris Šprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64867	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP club will support the decision to increase the number of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the peace operation in Afghanistan from 320 to 350 of our troops in 2011 and 2012 for known reasons. First for strengthening stability and security in Afghanistan. And secondly for making a concrete contribution to strengthening peace and stability in the world. However, on behalf of the SDP club, I will point out and warn about some issues and problems that can help us to make serious and responsible decisions on the participation of our Armed Forces in the peace mission in Afghanistan as well. I note that the situation in parliament's decision-making has changed, in the way decisions are made. Because in order to decide that the Republic of Croatia is sending its members to a world-wide peacekeeping mission, and thus this peacekeeping mission is needed, it was before it needed 2/3 of the MPs and MPs in the Assembly and now it needed a qualified majority. So in this case, 77 votes are sufficient, provided that the previous consent of the President of the Republic is given. If no prior consent has been given to the President of the Republic as it is in this case, and it is given. So, if the President of the Republic's consent is not given, then a two-thirds majority is required. I would rather remind a small, chronological clean that, let's see how we've been moving in the decision since 2002 when we first made the decision as the Croatian Parliament on 50 members who went on a military mission to Afghanistan in 2003, but the decision was made in 2002. In 2005, 150 soldiers were sent in 2006. 200 soldiers, 2007. 300 soldiers, or up to 300 soldiers, in 2008 to 300 soldiers, in 2009 to 300 soldiers. 2010 in April, so this year 320. So 20 more after three years and now we are considering the proposal to send 350 of our members for 2011 and 2012. With the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, I would like to remind myself that in 2011, a total of peace missions worldwide can be sent from the Republic of Croatia to 700 members. With this decision I believe we will have a consensus of 490 soldiers. So that's 70% of the estimated total number by the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces. But there's an important structure, of course. It's one thing to go to Afghanistan, the other to go to another place where our soldiers are out. So I have a few questions, and I'd like to warn you of some problems. First question to me, the most important question now is the current one. Whether continuing to wage war in Afghanistan leads to a peaceful solution or we are getting closer to the truth spoken by the commander of NATO's troops in Afghanistan, David Petraeus, quote: "There is no military solution for Afghanistan." With this in mind, it notes that the overall new Allied Forces strategy in Afghanistan has already led to the withdrawal of one NATO member from Afghanistan, which is the Netherlands. At least that's how I read it in one medium, and the Canadians soon announced their departure. So of the 48 countries participating in this mission, one retreated, and the other announced a withdrawal. It's interesting that a peace operation in Afghanistan was invented in phase five. The first phase of assessment and preparation. Second phase geographical expansion to the entire country. Third stabilization. Fourth transition. And the fifth retreat from Afghanistan. We are now all together in phase three. It's a phase of stabilisation. We have not yet entered a transition phase that is likely to be very risky and dangerous, and even if the operation is in phase three, some, as you can see, have already come out of that, and one is being prepared. That says something, and in this context I ask the question of what the Croatian government's thoughts are for the future. Second question. Is there sufficient logistics support for members of our mission in Afghanistan and other missions? I ask this question for the reason why the 2010 budget provides for 336 million 763 thousand kuna, and this year by 4% less, which is 324 million kuna. Armed Forces members on peacekeeping missions must have the best and most modern equipment. That's why I'm asking that question. Third question. How are our Armed Forces preparing to participate in a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan? It's a question. Whether they are preparing in the short and long term to adapt to the new strategy of the Allied Forces, which we are a member of. For example, will our forces soon be asked to participate in operations in which our soldiers are exposed to greater dangers. Will the structure of our forces with this change? Now here we are proposed to engage our new 30 members and to be mentors instructors for the purpose of training Afghan security forces. Whether, therefore, this structure of our forces will change in a way that requires us to enter these contingents and soldiers in the front lines. Fourth question. Will the principle of volunteering for the departure of our soldiers to Afghanistan be respected in the future? As far as I know, the principle is that only those members of our armed forces who express their desire to do so are going to Afghanistan and willing to do so. There were questions, we had a recent meeting of representatives of the Committee on Defence and the Committee on National Security, an internal policy of one brigade whether or not to consider abandoning this principle and introducing the principle of choice on the command line. I'm not going to comment here right now, I'm just asking what's going on and what are the answers to that question. Here's a question, we are from the SDP on several occasions discussing various materials concerning the state of security of our armed forces is not a topic. So you'll see it's a theme. So we've proposed several times, and I'm now asking if at least you've considered the proposals that certainly in, every contingent of our forces in Afghanistan will be involved and a psychologist as a professional person who helps our members of the armed forces to manage and act more easily when they're on a mission. And second assignments for participation in peacekeeping missions. And the sixth, will the Croatian Parliament be informed of the status and work of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the peace missions in Afghanistan because the deadline expired on 30.10 this year, because it would be good to have had that report for this decision, because it would be easier for us to decide on it. Here's what I had, I already said at the beginning that the SDP club would support the proposal for this decision, but I would ask the answer to these questions anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64868	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64869	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peace operation in Afghanistan called ISAF. The Croatian Democratic Community club certainly supports an increase in the number of members of the armed forces in the peace operation, as participation in peace operations is the most correct and contributes to strengthening stability and security in the world. The peace operations of ISAF are important because participation in this demanding operation profiles the Republic of Croatia as a reliable member of NATO and an international community that can meet greater security challenges. The participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the peace operation in Afghanistan contributes significantly to the further construction of the high political and military credibility of the Republic of Croatia within the NATO alliance. With NATO membership, the Republic of Croatia strongly contributes to its national security and to the general position in the international community and through membership of the Republic of Croatia recognises its strategic interest, sees the strongest security guarantee, and the best framework for engagement in the preservation and promotion of regional European and international security, as well as transatlantic alliances and partnerships, whose values and interests are fully shared. The Republic of Croatia is carrying out continued defence system reforms to make its Armed Forces interoperable with NATO member states. The cooperation of other NATO members in the peace operation ISAF Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia has gained important experience in the area of planning and carrying out joint operations of multinational forces. The decision of the Croatian Parliament of 11 December 2009 approved the participation of up to 300 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF peacekeeping operation, and in 2010, i.e. the decision of the Croatian Parliament of 30 April 2010, authorised the participation of up to 320 members of the Armed Forces in the ISAF peace operation in 2010 and 2011. Currently in the ISAF peace operation, a 16-Croatian national contingent consisting of 319 members was deployed, and in accordance with the current decision of the Croatian Parliament, which allowed the peace operation to be directed to up to 320 members of the armed forces in 2010. Following a new Allied strategy that includes ensuring the necessary assumptions for the implementation of the process of transition of responsibility for the security and stability of Afghanistan to... NATO's national institutions have called on its members, and thus the Republic of Croatia to contribute to the NATO training mission in Afghanistan, as part of the ISAF peace operation of critical importance to its success. [[You don't understand.]] Based on an analysis of capabilities carried out, and in order to contribute to allied efforts in Afghanistan, it is proposed to increase the current approved size of the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation ISAF through an increase of 320 members for 30 new members of the armed forces, i.e. the possibility of participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan in 2011 and 2012 with up to 350 members, with the possibility of rotation. The proposed increase concerns the contribution to the new Allied initiative aimed at creating a self-sustainable efficient system and implementing the process of transitioning responsibility for the security and stability of Afghanistan to Afghan institutions. The above-mentioned increase will allow for the increased engagement of mentoring and instructorial capabilities of our armed forces, as well as the taking over of the role of the leading state at Kabul military police school. In order to increase the efficiency and visibility of Croatia's overall contribution to the development of the capacity of Afghan military and police forces. At the same time, this additional engagement contributes to the maintenance of optimal territorial deployment and the internal structure of the Croatian contingent in the ISAF peace operation and further strengthens the logistics support of our contingent. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this increase and we want the decision to be made for sure with the support of all MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64870	Thank you. It's up to the IDS club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64871	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I just can't figure out one thing, that even the biggest pacifists when they come to power or when they better come to power then overnight they become the greatest militarists. And most eloquently, it confirms exactly this military deployment to Afghanistan. Intimately everyone, at least I believe it for the withdrawal of Croatian soldiers from that lost mission, but between interest at this time of America and personal convictions I think they choose first. And then they act like offended frays when they read in the paper, I mean this Wikilis affair, what about them or all of us is otherwise favored by American diplomacy. But if I were to go back to the subject now so you wouldn't just laminate about it. This mission in Afghanistan, like the one before it in Iraq, led by Americans or again by those international forces, is actually a lost mission. America's thoughtlessness, so first by attacking Iraq, has destabilized the whole Middle East, and through them, I dare say a good part of the world. In Iraq, they realized I could tear it all down, but that this war down won't win. And it's a good thing Iraq has a death sentence, so that Saddam doesn't already come back to them. Afghanistan remained, Iran remained. Afghanistan is usually a country of size, so I dare say, half of Europe. A country with 40 million inhabitants, with an average age of about 55, which is what, 22 years or more, in a permanent war. It's a country without communication, and NATO this war, whatever anyone thinks, just can't win. I'm glad that before me, Mr. Sprem quoted some American sources as saying that this war would eventually end. The truth is, I was personally there in 2001, that Croatia went to Afghanistan, but after that somewhere since, I don't know, since 2003, 2004, realizing what this mission pretends to be a lost mission, but for six, seven years I've been constantly voting against sending Croatian soldiers into this war. That's how I'm gonna do it this time. These are opportunities we usually have to listen to Croatia defend itself in Afghanistan, these are those for naives. If only their main, I don't know, economic production were destroyed, which is either economics, it's the production of mac and opium, but actually it's not, it's even more stimulating. There are 131,000 soldiers in Afghanistan today. The Americans in Afghanistan have 90,000 soldiers. On today in Afghanistan, Croatia has 319 soldiers and should now send down another 30 soldiers. My proposal, to be cynical, to the president of the state, to the Prime Minister, would be that every six months we don't change this law and provoke the public, to stop increasing the quotas, but to simply pass the law that Croatia sends to Afghanistan, or it can send as many as 20,000 troops as there are at this time. If it's not enough for them to send another 30,000 cops, it means one contingent to 50 grand. But after that, we'll go to Europe. In fact, only EU funds will not be won so soon, and what we get will not be enough to finance the army in Afghanistan either. Clearly, gentlemen, when I suggest that I joke, but this really doesn't make any sense anymore that every year as it is listed here and in this proposal we increase these contingents, first 50 and 150 members and then 200 members, and then 300 members, and then 320. We have now arrived at 350 members of the Croatian army in Afghanistan. Gentlemen, the war in Afghanistan is a lost war for both NATO and Croatian soldiers in Afghanistan. They lost him there in the 1970s, Russians or Soviets, anyway. The war will not be won either by the Americans or by NATO, and so if we want NATO to appreciate us the next day, we simply make a decision on the withdrawal of the army from Afghanistan, as some NATO members have already done or announced. So, with last year's 300 soldiers, Croatia was 14th in the number of members of the lost mission. Now with 350 soldiers we will take 11th place from the countries that are below present in Afghanistan. So, to be cynical, we're making progress year after year. Other countries are thinking, as I said, of withdrawing the army from Afghanistan or working on it, and we are increasing our contingent from month to month. Or, I could put it this way, Greece, Hungary, the Czech Republic, which has incomparably more inhabitants than the Republic of Croatia, give fewer soldiers in that lost mission than the Republic. Croatia, on the other hand, is fortunate to have soldiers in relatively safe, peaceful areas, Kabul, etc., north. Our army, it is to be acknowledged, is highly trained and so far we are fortunate that no one has been killed. But, as we all know, Iraq is no longer dying, now it's dying in Afghanistan, and Barack Obama, if I'm not mistaken, announces the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan in 2014. If the country isn't stabilized by this year 2011, I mean Afghanistan, it's not going to stabilize with any contingents in the next three years. In one word, what we've done, what we've sown, I'm afraid that Europe will reap there somewhere 2,000 or after 2014. That's why I'm gonna let the army back down. No one can convince me that this war in Afghanistan was won. Maybe if we retreated, maybe someone would hold more to the Republic of Croatia. Croatia today, on today, means there are 461 soldiers in INO missions or missions abroad. That's 2.5% of the Croatian army. I agree, Croatia was also a victim of aggression, we had a war. Croatia, as the people would say, defends light weapons and the heart of heroic diplomacy, etc., we must recognise the significant pain in the defence of the Republic of Croatia have given both international forces or their mission UNPROFOR. That should be appreciated. Croatia must absolutely participate in UN missions, but the question is whether we should participate in lost missions. I personally don't think so. Right, in Croatia there in '92, '93, '94, don't take my word for it, there were 8, 9, 10, maybe 11 thousand foreign soldiers. Thank all of them. It is repeatedly said that the UNPROFOR mission on the Croatian soil was one of the UN's most successful missions, we have not repeated. But this mission in Afghanistan, gentlemen, is a lost mission. The war in Afghanistan simply cannot be won with a weapon, it could be obtained if the borders were hermetically closed, when their macaque industry in some way moved away, however, it just won't happen so soon. Iraq was a "kind mother" according to what would happen in Afghanistan for the next few months or years. So forget about my joke that Croatia can pass the law that we have an open contingent to send soldiers to Afghanistan as many as 20,000 soldiers as there are soldiers, but let's think about what I'm talking about and pull the army out of this lost mission. This mission, only in Afghanistan, is costing Croatian budget bonds a million kuna per soldier. So in this year, for those needs almost 30 million kuna, next year 350 million kuna and now we can go back there in 2001 and we will know that we have allocated almost 1 billion kuna for these needs. I'd like to get the exact information from the Secretary of Defense. With that money we could de facto restore the air force, I don't know if we have at this point two aircraft that are operational, two of them have recently collapsed, thank God nothing happened to the pilots. With $2 million, we could restore the good part of our Navy. Whether in this context, using our position in NATO, we exported any weapons, ha and weapons is a normal part of our economy, I guess we're not God knows how much, and NATO is on the other side and a huge market and as if someone is bypassing us or we have nothing to offer. In one word to conclude, I advocate the withdrawal of the army, personally against the further sending of the Croatian army to Afghanistan because as I said, it is a lost mission and thank God that nothing has happened to any of our soldiers so far, and so much needs to be publicly and commended because we ourselves see that it is a top-of-the-line trained troops.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64872	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First is the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64873	So, colleague Cain, let me correct your wrong quote when you said there was a lost war for the Croats in Afghanistan. It also reads that the Croats went to Afghanistan to fight, which is incorrect. Which is quite incorrect, Croatian soldiers went on the basis of "The Security Council Resolution 13.86" and 2001. Croatia is a member of the UN, they went on a peacekeeping mission. We know that there is a risk of every species, and in traffic, however, that peace mission wouldn't even be if it wasn't for that environment that it is. Therefore, it is up to us to accept and take responsibility for their equipment, to support them and to pray to God that they remain healthy and that nothing happens that neither you nor we, etc. So I don't think we can discuss how we're discussing this because we're sending really wrong messages.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64874	Thank you. A second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64875	Mr. Vice President. In fact, it's incorrect that this is a lost mission or a lost war in Afghanistan. As we can see through all the analyses, it is clear that the mission absolutely has a purpose because it is spreading from the west to the east and south and certainly through reconstruction teams contributes to stability and post-Taliban time in Afghanistan. In any case, our soldiers on that mission are not provoking, they are not for no reason, they contribute to the real stability and future of Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64876	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNSU Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64877	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A peacekeeping operation in Afghanistan was approved by the United Nations Security Council resolution of 2001. The ISAF peacekeeping operation tasks include assistance to the government of Afghanistan to ensure and maintain the security environment, develop national security structures, support in training, education, security forces of Afghanistan, restore the country and establish democratic structures, and extend the central government's influence on the entire Afghanistan area. The above-mentioned tasks in 2009 and 2010 are gaining additional momentum through the new strategy of the International Community and NATO allies to establish a functional and self-sustainable Afghan state. The proposal for a new Allied strategy foresees that during the next 4 years, the Afghan National Security Force is being trained to act independently and assume full responsibility for the country's security. Peace operations are conceived in five main phases: Phase 1. Assessment of the situation and preparation. Phase 2 geographical expansion to the entire country. Phase 3 stabilising. Phase 4 transition. Phase 5 retreat from Afghanistan. Peace Operation ISAF is currently in phase 3 and is in preparation for phase 4. The government of Afghanistan and the International Community have committed to providing the necessary resources for the implementation of a transition that implies that the Afghan government gradually assumes full responsibility for the security, functioning of institutions and development. The start of the transition process is foreseen during 2011. In a peacekeeping operation, ISAF is currently particulating forces from 48 countries. The total numbered size is approximately 131 thousand Allied forces. I have to stop here and ask and say that it's not a good thing we didn't get until today and the obligation was 30. 10 A report on a peace operation in Afghanistan could pull some parallels from the report and compose some numerical data. During the past period, the activities of the rebel forces have increased in response to ISAF operations particularly in the operation of major traffic communications and in the vicinity of Afghan military and police bases. I'm going to get chronologically to mention the decisions that were made in this House of Commons. The decision of the Croatian Parliament of 2005 approved the participation of up to 150 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF Peace Operation by the end of 2006. The decision of the 2006 High House approved up to 200 members of the Peace Operation for 2007 and up to 300 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF Peace Operation in 2008. The decision of the Croatian Parliament of 2008 approved the participation of up to 300 members in 2009. The decision of the Croatian Parliament of 2009 approved the participation of up to 300 members in 2010, i.e. the decision of the Croatian Parliament of 30 April 2010 approved the participation of up to 320 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The Defence Council concluded at a session held on 18 October 2010 which requested the Ministry of Defence to consider the possibility of sending additional training instructors to the ISAF Peace Operation. Following the request made, the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia carried out an analysis of the capabilities and was positively responsible for the possibility of additional engagement of up to 30 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. After accepting this today's decision, the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF Peace Operation in 2011 and 2012 would be up to 350 members with the possibility of rotation. The above-mentioned increase will allow for the increased engagement of mentoring and instructorial capabilities of our Armed Forces, as well as the taking over of the role of the leading state in the Kabul Military Police School. That's what the proposal says. And we at the HNS Club, HSU have several objections or questions. First. The Croatian Parliament's decision approved the participation of up to 320 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF Peace Operation in 2010 and 2011. This Decision also provides for financial resources in the national budget for 2010 and 2011. Second. According to the proposal for this decision, we are therefore changing the decision from 30 April 2010 in a way that increases the number of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia by 30 and creating a new two-year commitment that will change the fixed amounts in the state budget foreseen for 2011 and 2012. The 2012 commitment will actually be an obligation for a new government. And thirdly, we at the HNS Club, HSU accept the role of leading state at Kabul Military Police School, but we suggest that existing and approved up to 320 members of the Armed Forces be reduced by the required number of instructors and trainers for the Kabul Military Police School. In the existing and approved number of people we propose a redistribution, secure 30 instructors and remain on 290 members of other duties. We believe that in this way we will fulfil our obligation as a reliable NATO member and will also be responsible for the current moment and recession in which Croatia is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64878	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB club and distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64879	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Here we read in this material the names of cities, the provinces that are mentioned as places where ISAF has its commands, its soldiers, its training centres, etc. So with Kabul as the capital of Afghanistan here as well as in the previous material of 30 April this year we have the names of the provinces of Đalabad, Herat, Farah, Chacharan I have already learned some in mind. How many times does this material come in, and how many times since 2005 are we changing the quota of our forces and our armies in Afghanistan, so many people learn from these materials to move on Ćalehnou, Mazari Shrif, Meimana,... Baggen, etc. And I think a lot of MPs here today, some of these names sound familiar. Unfortunately, if I mentioned some Sikirevci, Caglin, Grizic, Krajaci, etc. Then many would know nothing about them, or in materials related to congregation materials or proposals, statements, reports of either government or anyone else, we will hardly find the names of these Slavonic names to speak of any other. 319 Croatian soldiers are currently determined by the Croatian Parliament's decision of 30 April in Afghanistan. It is clear that this decision was made as my colleague said before me for 2010, 2011 and 2012 and that the budget of the Republic of Croatia provided for the funds for these purposes. By increasing by 30 soldiers, Cain calculated it by every soldier a million kuna. And this pays to be a public clear not NATO pact, not ISAF, not UN, but Croatian taxpayers, so Croatian people. And now that in a financial crisis like this, the Croatian Army is going for coaches, instructors etc., as stated here in the material, to train the Afghan police AMP or APN or the Afghan army ANA, in a situation where it is said that it strengthened precisely to quote, therefore a security ruling that shows that during the past period the activities of the rebel forces have increased. It is interesting that the goal, therefore, is the ISAF goal and the action was to reduce the action of the rebel forces, but we came to the so-called. the third phase or phase of stabilization. Interestingly, the phase of stabilisation and the action of the rebel forces has increased. What a stabilization it is, here in the material itself there is a contradiction between the very phase of stabilisation and increasing the action of the rebel forces. Since 2005, when the Croatian Parliament approved the sending of troops to Afghanistan to 150, later 200 and 250, 300, 320, we arrive at 350 soldiers. Every time the known secret service of the security force announces that terrorist attacks are being prepared in Europe, I am honestly telling you I am not a timid man but I am afraid that Croatia is in Europe, and given the participation and the way these terrorist groups operate, and Croatia stands out by 11th place on the list of 48 countries participating in the ISAF therefore with 350 soldiers, so much more proportionate to the number of inhabitants, the size of the country and the economic power, so I am afraid to say no such thing, so the terrorist attack also happens in our country where the consequences are catastrophic and where they can be catastrophic. So as I have already mentioned in the opening section, citing these known names and seats of ISAF and soldiers in Afghanistan, while there is a war going on and trying to defuse Taliban, Mujahedin, etc. We have much more work to do here on the names of places and activities in those places throughout Croatia, in Slavonia, especially so that they may become famous in the ears of our citizens. We both have Taliban and Mujahedin in action, so there's a war to be waged against all of us. We have more important work to do here in Croatia than to spend our time here today and not just time to discuss it or to review our decisions of the Croatian Parliament twice a year, and who orders us and orders that, I speak in transfer terms, speak directly, and not to talk about secret and diplomatic channels, agreements between our ministry and the ministries of the countries headed by ISAF. So who orders us to send a further increase in the number of soldiers every half year to Afghanistan. Or we're ordered by those who write about us, and we read over Wikileaks how they think about us very well, not us, but those who decide in this country. It's really gone too far once. And Croatia as a country which, I said, relatively to its population, I would say to my number of members of the Armed Forces that someone here has said 20 thousand or about 20 thousand, that no one is holding me by word, to their economic condition, at the stage I would say one of, when we look at the surrounding countries, so the Croatian country that is really in a deep crisis I don't think is necessary and there is no way to increase the number of its members in ISAF. If there were firm views, if there were arguments that I have brought here and if there were some consistency in Croatian politics, foreign policy, the Ministry of Defence then it should be made clear to its partners in the ISAF or NATO, but I would say there is no such thing. There is no such determination; it is more the principle of sloganism in the Croatian government, according to the song, the poor servants of the bad lords, the worse masters. And therefore, the HDSSB club will not be voting in favour of the proposal for this Decision on the participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the peace operation in Afghanistan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64880	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64881	Mr. Vice President. So it is incorrect to quote counterpart Grubisic as saying someone is ordering the Croatian government or the Ministry of Defence that he must send. Namely, the request sent to all NATO members was certainly discussed by the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia carried out an analysis of the capabilities and responded positively to the possibility of an additional engagement of 30 members of the Armed Forces, with prior consent of course of the Supreme Commander and of the President of the Republic of Croatia. So no one orders but a request, a possibility and a willingness is the answer to what we have in front of us today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64882	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64883	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan in 2011 and 2012 increases the number of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been participating in a peace mission in Afghanistan since 28 February 2003 with the decision of the Croatian Parliament. So far, 319 members of the Armed Forces have participated in the operation. The decision will increase the number by another 30 members of the Armed Forces. Peace Operation ISAF is important because participation in this demanding operation defines the Republic of Croatia as a reliable member of the NATO Alliance and the International Community that can meet international challenges. The proposal for a new Allied strategy foresees that, over the next 4 years, Afghan national security forces are being able to act independently and take full responsibility for the country's security. Allied forces need additional capacity in the people to ensure safe training of Afghan and national security forces. In order to implement this strategy, which includes ensuring the necessary assumptions for the implementation of the NATO transition, it urged all its members and Croatia's team and the Republic of Croatia to contribute to NATO's training mission in Afghanistan as part of the ISAF peace operation essential to its success. This increase that the Republic of Croatia will approve of this decision is in a certain way, it is also a recognition of our country, its members of the Armed Forces for the current contribution to the ISAF mission. The above-mentioned increase will allow for increased engagement of mentoring and instructorial powers where members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia assume the role of the leading state in the Kabul military police school with the aim of increasing the efficiency and visibility of Croatia's overall contribution to the development of the capacity of Afghan military and police forces. Through this increase, therefore for an additional 30 members, it contributes to maintaining optimal territorial deployment and the internal structure of the Croatian contingent, and additionally strengthens the logistics support of our forces. What we get through cooperation with other NATO members in the ISAF peace operation. It is that members of our forces acquire important experiences from the field of planning, the implementation of joint operations of multinational forces, the ability and professionality of members of our Armed Forces through previous cooperation have contributed significantly to the very accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO. The participation of our forces in the ISAF peacekeeping mission in Croatia recognises its strategic interest, sees a firm guarantee of security and the best framework for engagement in the preservation of international security, as well as the transatlantic alliance and partnerships whose values and interests we share. All phases of this transition in increasing the strength of the ISAF peacekeeping operation are funded and that is, as so far, every country for its contingent and I hope this funding given the situation, the recession, the crisis we are in will not surprise us. I think the total benefits will be greater than the costs. That's why I'm going to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64884	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64885	Thank you very much. I do not think it is disputed whether or not we should support the participation of Croatian forces in NATO actions. As a NATO member, we have taken on certain obligations that we must fulfil. However, what we might do here or myself personally would like to know in the Croatian Parliament to say or somewhere else, but I think there is a place we can expect. What we can expect in view of the perspective of the operation in Afghanistan. We have the next situation now. Part of the countries announces much larger and stronger NATO members either partially withdraw or withdraw in full. What would be our turn to know if next time we make a decision we're going to talk again about the increase, the increase we're going to talk about, and as far as it goes. So it would be good for some and strategic plans of the ministry itself, and otherwise the country's entire defences to know what is actually waiting for us throughout the peace missions, especially when it comes to the situation in Afghanistan. So, I don't know if it can happen that in a year or two we'll be discussing on the same topic where we're going to talk about 50 or 100 more people we have to send to Afghanistan because I don't know because Americans, Danes or already who's going to pull one of their forces. In that sense, when we talk about these proposals and decisions like this, I think it would be good if we had some projections for perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64886	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64887	Well, colleague Lucin, we get along well, so we all wish there was no need to engage our forces in Afghanistan. So what we're getting is the experience our members of the Armed Forces are gaining in Afghanistan. So what's most important, so it's not some means that we can't guarantee that something important is going to cost us. Most importantly, by participating in the Republic of Croatia, we are profiling as a partner that NATO and its members can rely on. So in this sense, the Republic of Croatia does not have any choice whether to participate or not in these forces. I think it is certainly the interest of the Republic of Croatia to be part of the NATO Pact and to participate in peacekeeping missions around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64888	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is up to Commissioner Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64889	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today, in his presentation of colleague Cain here, he uttered a fine sentence that motivated me to actually begin with a clear political remark on this debate. He said it was interesting how the most trusted pacifists, when they came to power, became convinced militarists. I guess my colleague Cain knows why he said it and who he meant, but I'm still going to make a little distinction here. If we limit that sentence to this Assembly, I don't think there are many convinced militants here, and there have never been any, but there have been in this assembly and there are still the same ones who were from the position of opposition when it was necessary to decide on Croatia's participation in peacekeeping missions, including in this ISAF and other peacekeeping missions, let's say deliberately obstructed the two-thirds majority so that no decisions could be made. It was I remember very well at the time, the short time and the bright time when SDP was in power, and HDZ was in opposition. Today I see that colleagues have made drastic progress, have not become militarists, but have become very loud advocates of Croatia's participation in peacekeeping missions, including in the mission in Afghanistan, and completely uncritical, without asking any further questions on a given explanation. Well, you see, I would not like to repeat what my colleague Šprem said on behalf of the SDP club, those questions that he said on behalf of the SDP club, because these issues actually contain everything or answers to those questions can satisfy everything that we are actually setting as key goals that should be achieved in order for Croatia on the one hand to participate in such missions, which there are indeed a lot of doubts about, but also that Croatia will meet all its security and political objectives. It's not us, nor is this mission some kind of charity that's happening in the world, although it's formally declared we're all fighting for democracy there, for a stable and orderly country, for peace in that part of the world and in the region, for human rights, all of these are great goals, but it's still a military mission, it's something that's very often called war in Afghanistan, and we need to know why and what our goals there are. I do not have any doubts right now and I will raise my hand and support this decision, but I have a lot of doubts and objections in the way that the Croatian authorities approach the mission, as Croatian authorities are serving the information representatives in this assembly, which, by raising their hands, support or refusing to support, are making a rather important political decision. This isn't just a military decision, this isn't just a security decision, this is a very important political decision. There have also been a few words about this here today, we are a NATO member, we have accepted this membership and we cannot now question every one of our participation in some NATO activities. That would be unserious. We are also building a partnership not only with NATO members, but we are building a partnership in a broader context, building our reputation, political reputation, and we need to use all of our references to benefit from it, politically, to strengthen our political influence and reputation, to strengthen our partnership with small and big countries. It is not disputed, even on the contrary, I think that this should be done here and it should be very emphasized that the participants of our contingent in this ISAF mission are extremely well prepared, extremely motivated to participate in this work they are doing. However, it is not too loud to say that they are not extremely or best prepared, i.e. best equipped, i am correct, best equipped for this mission, and they are also not perhaps best paid for this work, because it is about professionals who get paid for it. Well, since that's the case, because it's consistent with our overall possibilities, then it would be good to ask a question that we have political objectives and to what extent we meet our participation in these and other peacekeeping missions. I will concentrate here on only one potential goal, which is related to the key interests and objectives of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. We know that our first goal is to join the European Union, we also know that one of our foreign policy goals is to build good relations with our neighbours, but we also know that one of Croatia's important foreign policy goals is to have good or partner relations with the United States. There's a lot of reasons for that. I think that we have good relations with the United States and that we have always had them good, more or less and that it has always been in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, but I think we still lack a strong partnership in that part. Not a big and small brother's relationship, but a partnership relationship, and this very mission in Afghanistan, our participation in it, the results of the work of our contingent's participants are a strong argument that Croatia must use better to strengthen its partnership with the great United States, in order to strengthen its partnership with all NATO member states. I will take this opportunity, although it may be completely out of context, to note that it is high time for Croatia to declare a little clearer and yet another one of its obligations, or another of its foreign policy objectives, which is our participation in European security policy. I think that we should position ourselves more strongly there, that we should be more active in that part because I think that this is exactly our area of defence and security declared through the ability of our Armed Forces can contribute to the better positioning of Croatia and in that part of the overall defence and security strategy it is building.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64890	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64891	Thank you very much. Well, I think we're actually sitting here, that we can discuss a double situation at least when two of the last meetings of this House came before this topic, and that's one situation that was when we proposed to be a NATO member, and now there's another situation when we're a NATO member. If you ask me which one's better, colleagues, situation, then I say we're in a better situation now. Now, what's this about? You've touched the issue of politics on your own, and I think that's the essence of it. And that's why I insist that we know some perspective. If within a year there is again some interest of the Republic of Croatia which will have to pay NATO forces, in participating in NATO's joint forces, then we should actually have this projection today. Because if you don't have a strategy and you don't have a projection, you can't actually find yourself in a situation that you can plan anything. I note, a good part of the people of the great NATO member withdraws or says they will withdraw them. Does this mean that these great forces, or how large members will withdraw their forces and reduce the number of members that we will have to increase? Now, what I expect to hear here today is that Croatia will no longer increase or, when and how much, participate in NATO's joint forces in Afghanistan. I also do not belong to those who think that Croatia and that Croatian forces are something very ready and organized as they participate in these actions. I'll try to compete with some other country that's participating there. I'll take just one example. So, the forces of some NATO members when they return from Afghanistan are still three months together, working with psychologists, psychiatrists, etc. Not to mention other aspects. It is not enough in the Croatian forces, at least according to my information, as it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64892	Thank you. Replica's reply, distinguished representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64893	Of course, counterpart Lucin that there is a difference between the period during which Croatia participated in the ISAF mission when it was not in NATO alliance and that it exists today. That today is a different position. I agree with you when you say that position is easier today. But I think you're asking too much of this Croatian government when you're looking for a proactive, strategically long-term-based approach. I also talked about it in a slightly different way. I've talked about this by talking about the possibility that we can strengthen our partner position through our participation in this mission. But for a partner position, you need to know what you want and where you're going. Which you accept and which you do not accept. Since I, without the intention of being overcritical, do not recognize this strategic approach from the current government, do not recognize that point at which to say if this is no longer acceptable for Croatia, I can only conclude that there is no strategy but that there is one little one, don't blame me, I mean nothing ugly, but such a courtship relationship with strong members of the NATO alliance. This is not necessary for Croatia, Croatia has good experience, just partnering experiences with these countries. And I think we have a really good opportunity to strengthen our position on the experience of this mission.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64894	Since the President of the Republic has also supported and recommended the adoption of this decision, it also plays a courting role in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64895	Maybe the president's better informed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64896	Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, fellow MPs. Here we heard the debate clubs and we saw for the first time that the two clubs had made themselves clear and said they would not support the decision to send our members to Afghanistan. It's a signal to the Secretary of Defense, it's a signal to all of us. For the first time, it happens that we won't, to say so unanimously, even though it happened several times with a few abstentions, but for the first time we have two clubs that have said clearly we won't support the departure of our soldiers up to Afghanistan. This must be a clear signal to the defence minister, and to the government, as well as to how further action is being made and how it works when it comes to the departure of our forces into various missions around the world. In April of this year, the defence ministry received a request from NATO and NATO sought the equivalent of 50 people, inspectors, officers, officers to strengthen our forces and to strengthen and strengthen security forces to train security forces in Afghanistan. The defence ministry cut it in half and said, at the time they said clearly, this is what Mr. Pierre Simunovic said, we will now give them 20 soldiers, 20 officers, 20 officers, means 20 all together, but different categories, and that will be it. There's no increase for this year. A few months later, we have a requisition for an increase of 30 inspectors to deal with training security forces in Afghanistan. I don't think that's the best way. I will vote this time for the departure of our troops to Afghanistan because I am an ex-military and I believe that only such conditions, the real conditions as Afghanistan, the environment of our forces, the Croatian Army can gain the necessary experience in the event of any activity, and we still have a region that is not the most stable in this area. I think the Ministers should be there, that we should have a different policy. We should have made a decision then, we should have said ok, we need 50 people, we need to talk to all the clubs, and we need to make one right decision and a firm decision, and we shouldn't be dealing with every little debate here in the Assembly about an increase of 10, by 15, for 20 of our troops in Afghanistan. And I think I should definitely say change that. I don't see what our interest is, what we got by sending 30 people up, what we're going to get as Republic of Croatia. We've been in NATO for a long time, our police are very strong and strong and I don't know what we can get by sending these people up. We are in a financial crisis, the Ministry of Defense has lost a lot of funds over the last year and a half, something has been slightly increased but every soldier in Afghanistan costs about a million kunas. So that's 30 million kuna more for this budget that's not exactly the best for the Ministry of Defence and I'm sorry that we came into a position that... the development of the Croatian Army has been well put aside and we can't respect it the way we planned. I think that we could invest these funds in the equipment and modernisation of the Croatian Army, NATO would understand that for sure, NATO should say so that if we had problems of our own, you'd be up there for many years, we've proven ourselves, the Croatian Army has proved themselves up there, our forces are doing a good job up there, and when there's an opportunity, if we show up, we'll still be participating, we'll send our people, but now we have problems. With 30 million we could well solve the coast guard annually, we could order several ships for the Croatian Navy, and I think that at this point is the priority of the Croatian Army. Modernization and equipment absolutely. By the time we're in Afghanistan, no one knows. I talked about it last time that we should have some exit strategy, it could be inspectors, because the coefficient of one instructor is 10-1 soldiers its coefficient is 1.25. it can be a good exit strategy, but the government has to have a clear vision, we need to know what we want up and what we want up and when and how to pull our forces into some foreseeable future. That's what all countries do. Greater countries than us are pulling their forces, Canada some others have indicated they will withdraw their forces from Afghanistan. So I'm not advocating the withdrawal tomorrow but I'm saying that we have a planned strategy, that the Department of Defense knows how and when to do it. This time and this way that every year we increase our contingent twice, I don't think it's good, and I also think that we need to change and make a completely different commitment to our policy towards Afghanistan. We've already said several times that voluntary departure as commander of the Guard brigade is not good. We are now taking soldiers partial from one water, from another water, from one company, from one battle, have little time to train, they get to know each other a few months before or a few weeks ago, we need to change that relationship, and this principle of headquarters must be clear he has to equip, train his forces, ground forces going up, means that the water is being sent up, the company by centipede is much easier and the commanders who run certain units because this is not a good way now. We don't have an army in a way that we can say tomorrow. Okay, we'll send in one battleship, and we'll rotate in six months. It's not a good way, and I don't think that the main headquarters has to lead a different policy and that they have to train, train, prepare and send troops to the unit. We spoke several times, also in the Parliament we mentioned medals, we are the only country that has no distinction for our members, ministers, so we have several missions out, people are very good, so it's not, it's a piece of nobility of a few dozen kunas and it's not hard for those people when they come back from Afghanistan in six months to give that piece of lime or a piece of bald that they deserve up there. What if someone were to die upstairs, which if someone were to hurt us more seriously, we had an example of Captain Pavkovic who, shortly after he arrived, sat in a car that broke down, ran into a lady and broke him. That man would like to stay in the system, and I'm asking the question, the health insurance of our members in Afghanistan. What if someone up there gets killed? We have repeatedly said that we should change the law and make people who are up there in case of severe wounding have the rights of heavy suffering like we defenders from the Homeland War. This can't cost the Croatian state much, because so far we haven't had any deaths, we haven't had a single case of serious injury, except this incident with our officer, the great officer Pavkovic. I think we should do a lot there, that we should make these people have absolute security in that sense up there. I also fully agree, Shime Lucin was talking about it, our members when they get back from Afghanistan they should have one rehabilitation procedure. We talked several times about that we are the only country of these countries that have fought often, from Israel, Russia, America, England, they have a large rehabilitation centre for their members, for former members, for current members who come after certain tasks and have all the help they need from psychologists, psychiatrists, even come with family downstairs. We need to think about building a rehabilitation centre for all defenders, and we have great facilities in the Ministry of Defence, such as Dujlovo, such as several of those facilities located at sea, even NATO can use it to rehabilitate its members, we can charge it well at the end. We can group down our doctors who we have very much experienced and that would be a full hit for defenders who have problems and wait a few months for rehabilitation and for members of our own who come from various missions. That's why I think from our position you have to be absolutely tighter, we saw before Minister Karamarko he got 120 million kunas for equipment and he ordered patrol ships for the MUP you have to be there a little tighter, you have to fight for the position of the Ministry of Defence, because I think it's the Ministry that saved the most in the last 15 years since 2006. WITH 200 thousand soldiers, we have reduced to 18 thousand soldiers, while other ministries are growing, while other ministries are growing, and I don't think they should be too modest and fight for the Ministry of Defense, for their people and for those people who have passed the Homeland War and who will be on other missions tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64898	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, he's a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64899	You told your colleague Kotromanovic that for the first time, we have a situation that two clubs have announced that they will not support the proposal for this Decision. Last time we discussed the same topic, if I would quote Minister Vukelic correctly, he said that NATO is not the Swedish table from which we would take our own choice. These clubs today so critical of increasing the contingent of the number of Croatian soldiers, and in Afghanistan they were not so critical when Croatia's NATO accession decision was made. At the time, no one told them that NATO is not a Swedish table, a decision without citizens, a decision without a referendum, that's what I'm talking about. At that time, they said they were a political elite who must take the burden of making difficult decisions, and now that the obligation is made, and Croatia is a full NATO member who has assumed certain rights and obligations. Now that these obligations are a little bit more awkward, so obviously they don't fit right now they wouldn't be carrying out their commitments, so they don't mind getting wrapped up in cellophane or realizing that the ISAF mission in Afghanistan is becoming an impossible mission, so I'd like to get out of here, now we'd be playing a little bit of the Swedish table. That's why they're not principled, that's why they're not consistent. Without a referendum, Croatia has only introduced NATO and those who have said that it is the exclusive right of the Croatian Parliament alone, regardless of whether the president of the Republic gives positive or any other opinion, must now be put on NATO's side. NATO said Minister Vukelic is not a Swedish table. Obligation and membership are binding.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64900	Thank you. Replica's reply, distinguished representative Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64901	That I agree with my colleague, Lesar, that NATO is not a Swedish table. It is a serious political institution that has its own clear goals, which has its own strategy that each year brings its clear goals and strategy that reduces its vision of action. But I think the Republic of Croatia must behave similarly. We must have our vision, we must have our goal, we must have our interests that we must create. And I think the role of the Croatian Army in Afghanistan and other missions is great. The role of the Croatian Army is absolutely great and that we had to make better use of these interests in a way that negotiated, discussed and firmly defended its position regardless of who liked it and who did not like it. We are an independent state, we have our vision and our army and I think we should know what our interests are. And I agree this way that it's not very good and that the Swedish table can sometimes be interesting and interesting because you can eat fast and in most cases it's not the best food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64902	Thank you. Replica's distinguished representative, Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64903	Thank you very much. I have a replica of something you said. Not as a whole, but I think you were quite inaccurate. In fact, you said the Department of Defense has saved the most from all the users of the state budget over the last few years. And what I want to replicate to you is inaccuracy that can lead to public error. I don't think it saved, for example. in the purchase of the truck, although the purchase is declared as one of the purchases that needs to improve the equipment and preparedness of our contingent in ISAF. I'm not gonna waste my time talking about other supplies and other expenses.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64904	Dear MPs, please. ... I must warn you that this was not the subject of this debate and that you really cannot replicate something that is not the basis of the debate. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Here, stick to the subject. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64905	... I replicated and put my replica and even more clear context of the ISAF mission. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64906	But that's not the topic of the debate today. The topic of the debate is going on a mission, increasing the contingent. You're welcome to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64907	I've heard the discussion here of the equipment, of the training, of the care after the return. I don't know why you can't discuss technical equipment, about getting a truck that can't be well done or done, about our contingent's readiness.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64908	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64909	So I'd like it to be the only one... The Department of Defense was precisely the only interest of the people and the army, when I was talking about how... most saved I thought exclusively of the number of people that in '96. Year or '95. There were about 150,000 people somewhere a little bit more. Today there are 18 thousand 200 or which soldier more or less. It doesn't matter if someone leaves sooner or later, as opposed to other ministries. Of course I wish there were no problems and no trucks... signs at the Department of Defense that such things were happening. And I would like all the funds to be exclusively moral, so professionally directed at how to equip the Croatian Army, how to develop the Croatian Army, how it is to make it a strong, strong, small hand that can strike anywhere and anywhere and react quickly to all the problems we have in the region and in the future in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64910	Thank you. We're continuing the debate individually. It is up to the honourable representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64911	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. Certainly none of us today are happy to send soldiers into any operation or mission. But we live in the world, and we know that wars are what the world is, and unfortunately, they will last. In my humble opinion, and from the experience of the Homeland War, I think it's far better to put out a war fire in someone else's backyard than to wait with us a bouquet, and then suffer as we had the chance before. Namely, the peacekeeping mission is in the training phase, meaning the task of training Afghan police and the military to take responsibility in their country. Today, we have 48 countries that truly have one part of the countries announcing the withdrawal of their armed forces, and a great force like the United States has cca 131 thousand soldiers. In order to take the responsibility of the domestic force, police and military forces should train nearly 400 thousand Afghan police officers and soldiers so that soldiers can take responsibility for the military and police responsibility for the police. It's a big job standing in front of a NATO mission in Afghanistan. We have heard today from those who will support and praise God a smaller number of those who will not support us sending soldiers there. And we don't send classic soldiers with a rifle in a trench hand, we don't send guards to guard hangars, trucks, etc. We send our instructors, send our mentors, send our skills, training, professionalism and equipment. Surely our forces are equipped for the task provided to them in Afghanistan and that they are well-trained and trained and that they are professionals and that they are equipped and that they can do their part of the work to the satisfaction of the command and of all of us who make that decision. There's always a fear that one of our members will get hurt there, boys or girls. That's right. This happened to the captain who was on the mission and returned to Croatia, so he died in traffic. Who knows who, who of us when it comes out and when it snows can get hurt in Mark's square. What encourages is that Croatian members of the Armed Forces, our boys and girls, are not hated by the Afghan people because they are experienced and do not shoot at the first. I have experience from the Homeland War when NATO's forces came to these areas, mainly Bosnia and Herzegovina, where they were well equipped and trained without military experience and unfortunately shot at the first as it happens in Afghanistan and then got that anger of the people to suffer the civilian population. Thank God our boys and girls in that part are good. And what should be done to our forces certainly prepare those medals when they finally return from the peace operation. We saw in Israel today, or yesterday, that the firemen who saved those woods got those medals there, so I think our boys and girls should both get their medals back, and they need all the security to be put in, even from this defense center when they get back. It's just contradictory, once they say we're too much of the 30 million we're supposed to spend, then we say we need to build another center and let these people rest. We should, but then we can't say it's a lot of money. We are a country proud and small and we have a good army, we have boys and girls who have a war experience, we have good instructors, we have a good and main headquarters and land and other tribes so that we can be proud of our boys and girls and be aware that, unfortunately, always while the world is going on, there will always be a hotspot where it will have to work. This time we have to say that we are not a combat team there, but we are like the training unit that we train, so we have a large number of our mentors, our teams of experts who train and prepare that people, and finally takes responsibility into their own hands, and they'll probably be better off when all foreign forces pull out of Afghanistan, that there will be peace there too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64912	Thank you. Before I give you two replicas, I'd like to read one notice. The 46th session of the Economic Committee will take place today on 8 December at 13:30 in the hall of Janko Draskovic 202, second floor. And another announcement, at 12 o'clock we'd have a vote and a brief addition to the agenda. We're moving on with the debate. Two replicas like I said. The first is Honorable representative of Shima Lucin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64913	Thank you very much. Well, I actually got a line from my colleagues, and that's that we're a small and proud country. And just by sticking to it and agreeing with you that we are a small and proud country, I think it's high time we started building a partnership with NATO. About to express myself in public, they won't appreciate you and respect you others if you don't appreciate and respect yourself. So I return to the essence of the matter, the Croatian Army, or the Croatian Government, must have a strategy for participating in international NATO operations. So let's say that in the next five years, we can raise or reduce by so many and so many soldiers, that in one place in operations we can participate in a certain period of time with a maximum and a minimum number of forces. And I think it would be very important to have this proactive component and participation in NATO because as long as we are constantly acting as a small country, but not as a proud country, we will always have to serve as compensation. I have the impression that we're actually making up for someone leaving NATO, some big country, that we have to compensate for it. Now the essential question is that many, and you said so yourself, have announced that the withdrawal from Afghanistan is my question where is the final line to which we will compensate those departures. I think we should know that, that's what we should tell me and tell it where it's supposed to be, so in NATO. And one thing, when it comes to Afghanistan, I think that whether you're an instructor, whether you're an officer or a soldier, you're just a soldier, so you're more or less exposed to the same level of death.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64914	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64915	Yeah, we're certainly a small and proud country, and we showed it through the Homeland War. Whether it's a partnership between the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the NATO forces means NATO's command, whether it's a credit to the government or the military summit, or the Land Army, but certainly exists. So people they invite us, they invite the country that came out of the war yesterday to get there, to send our instructors, our teams, to train people who will take their seats. So these soldiers, these police officers and military and civilian police officers and soldiers there to train, they need to take the place of Great Britain, Spain, Italy, Germany, and the United States. Well, that can't be a bigger confession. They didn't send us to guard some kind of hill there, to give soldiers to guard some kind of warehouse, to guard some sort of passing convoy. Surely there are no soldiers and there is no man who, when he comes to recruiting and when he puts a gun on his hand, there is no man who is not in danger, there is no military exercise that is carried out that, unfortunately, there is no loss in one order. That's right in the military, the soldier has a gun, he's got a weapon, he's got a weapon on him, he's exposed to certain risks, and there's always a chance he can get hurt. But I certainly, from my point of view, am not saying anything but from my point of view of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia that they have built a partnership in NATO forces because we are not ordinary soldiers on foot, but we are instructors there, but we are there people who need to help a people get dressed well and take the place of great forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64916	Thank you. And another replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a proposal for this debate, which Mr. Biljic has made, I would like to say, that taking over the role of the leading state at the Kabul Military Police School is certainly commendable for our Armed Forces, for our instructors who certainly have achieved a great degree of trust. And as well as all those who are in another Afghanistan as far as we can hear and know, all the international factors that come there are looking for the very Croats to be escorted, implemented, guarded and secured because they have confidence, because Croatian soldiers who in the Homeland War have baked their crafts, in creating an army of defence and liberation certainly reach high standards, and so in their personal knowledge and skills as well as in their equipment. We're also talking today about equipment with material and technical stuff, and that's how trucks are mentioned in a controversial announcement, and someone's giving themselves the right to determine how this or what happened in the equipment of our forces in Afghanistan. In fact, it was one of the necessary and necessary tasks to get trucks, because another warning that came from the North Atlantic Alliance that we didn't have adequate equipment and trucks and it was necessary to get them. Whether they are acquired by competition and how they should be or other legal options are used, which are made available to the Armed Forces, should certainly be told with the right, certainly real evidence and arguments, not conjectures.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64918	Thank you. Replicate reply, distinguished representative Mate Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64919	My colleague Djakic, I couldn't agree more. I don't want to tell you this because otherwise it exists with us when it's being replicated between clubs, I totally agree, but I want to support ours. When we say ours, then we should estimate that ours is the best. When we treat our own like this, it's our best. I think our soldiers are the best soldiers in the world. We weren't best trained, but we did great things where today the major military academy in the world is studying our military operations and the Flash and Storm. And certainly, in this part, all the ministers who have so far been as our forces in these peace missions have their merits and their land and commanders of the Armed Forces. They have because we have managed to transfer our intelligence, our ability and our training to NATO alliance and train people who need to say again the taken place of one American. And when you say the army, the equipment is whether it's Americans, English, etc. They're the strongest. So we're here and we're certainly partners with them and we're well equipped for the tasks that we need to do in the world. And does he need more money? Of course you should. But when we're making a budget, then every time we say, we're taking it off the D.O.D. Thank you very much. It's not... It's the opposition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64920	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is up to the honourable representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64921	Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Afghanistan is a painful issue at global level, as well as European security and defence policies. Almost every session of the Western European Union Assembly discusses Afghanistan. There are also documents that the Assembly adopts and these documents are quite, quite clear, quite disturbing. The debates held in the parliamentary assembly after the reports were submitted by parliamentarians who went on a mission to Afghanistan to look at the situation are very, very disturbing. Afghanistan is a huge country. Someone mentioned more than half of Europe. Very, very poor. The level of illiteracy is over 57% among men and over 87% among elderly women, so among the 15-year-old population. Efforts to establish a central government that would rule the entire territory have unfortunately failed even with the help of ISAF, and there are still tribal and ethnic conflicts between the pashtun, tadjih, gambling and other ethnic groups. Police. The Afghan police are in a catastrophic state, so we had to read the following in this report of the Assembly of the Western European Union. The testimony of some NGOs and these representatives who were in Afghanistan. Says the Afghan national police force, so the Afghan national police is the last institution I'd like to cooperate with untrustworthy, dysfunctional, and it's actually the fact that they've committed numerous crimes against their own people. Here in such an environment we send our additional contingent of soldiers to the mission of training the military police. I hope they succeed, but they have a huge task ahead of them. Perhaps it is an honor for our members and members of our armed forces. But the question is why Croatia. For example, Portugal currently has 95 soldiers, Finland has 150 soldiers, the Netherlands has withdrawn its military information, Estonia 142 soldiers, Latvia 189, Lithuania 219. So, everyone far, far less than the Republic of Croatia, and it's about countries where and where they have more economic power than we do. So why Croatia? The moment all other countries withdraw or seek to withdraw their armed forces from Afghanistan, where an honorable solution is sought to also withdraw ISAF. Because let's be honest, NATO loses war there, loses war, and unfortunately as the Western European Parliament document said I quote a military solution becomes the only one or remains the only basis for the reconstruction of government and political negotiations in Afghanistan. So the war should be won. Western forces should win the war in order to establish such a political solution, which is unfortunately not in sight, as is neither the military solution. Moreover, the people's sympathies are increasingly on the Taliban's side, not on the part of the ruling, government and regular armies. Moreover, representatives of the Western European Assembly when they testified in front of the assembly said that direct contacts with Afghan peasants, citizens, had confirmed to the people that those Afghans were in fact simply begging do not come to free us from the Taliban, not the Taliban, not the government, not the ISAF, and if the ISAF comes then and stay to protect us from either Taliban, or the government. Here in such an environment we send our additional contingent, but when you look at the state of human rights in Afghanistan it's also catastrophic, especially according to the female population, it's actually one terrible situation that a certain form of genocide is being carried out there by the Afghan male population towards their own women. Something about it is written in a new number of National Gographs, one who reads an article about Afghanistan without touching it really doesn't have a heart. And the fact is that human dignity and morality require that the happier countries of Western democracy do something in this context, that the situation is stabilised, I personally hope that our Croatian contingent increased in this segment will succeed and do something, but again the question is why NATO countries do not bear the same burden but it seems like we are paying some bills, we are probably paying support to join the European Union. I only hope that the government has done well to get some counterservice for what we are going to do today, and it is also known that because, precisely because of Afghanistan, the government in the Netherlands has fallen, so perhaps even here it would not be the ultimate damage to happen in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64922	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Zeljko Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64923	Comrade Franić, you have testified about your own, testifying here publicly about your knowledge of the situation in Afghanistan as a country, as a space for the situation in which the Afghan people are located, you have added that under such conditions we send our soldiers. That's not the problem. If the situation were better there, then probably no one would ask for military intervention, nor would our soldiers go there. The situation is crisis, serious and problematic. You spoke of open testimony about the situation at various instances, at various international instances, you are a member of a delegation in the Western European Union. I'm a member of a delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. And what I have reported to this replica of yours is precisely the fact that you have pointed out, which I would like to confirm at these levels is much more open and clear, with a lot of facts and serious concern and by looking for a solution to this topic, that NATO Parliament is more open to a public debate on how best to solve the crisis in Afghanistan, and how most effectively help this man than it is in the Croatian Parliament. Without any real bad reasoning, MPs must have all the information, as written in the text, according to the given arguments, MPs in the Croatian Parliament do not receive a tenth of the information that the NATO Alliance or NATO Parliamentary Assembly gives at its level.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64924	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64925	Exactly, counterpart Antunovic, the fact is that in international forums and assemblies of representatives of the national parliaments of the European Union, much more is discussed about these very serious problems, and the way in which the European and national public of individual EU Member States and those countries that contribute to their ISAF contingents are discussed more and more disproportionately than in the Republic of Croatia. The government here has not bothered to give a crumb of catastrophic state and facts and to see what is actually happening in Afghanistan, let alone that someone dares to say publicly that NATO is actually losing the war there. There the candy is not shared, we send our troops into a very complex dangerous mission and the public has to be far more informed, not at such meetings of the Parliament where we only discuss this situation when we need to send 20, 30, 50 or 100 soldiers more because we are a good and obedient member of NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64926	Thank you. And the final application for an individual hearing, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64927	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. For seven years now, we have been more or less unanimous in making decisions about sending our troops to Afghanistan. And I do not agree with those who say that the Croatian state always meets the requirements, so large or larger partners. I'll remind you of two cases when that wasn't the case. First, we didn't send our troops to Iraq even though some of our allies were looking for it. And secondly, we didn't accept the application of the article, I think it's 68. The Statute of the International Court of Justice on the non-delivery of citizens, so that it would also be the pressure of the United States. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia knows as much as it can, as it can and knows where it can. Besides, we're not the only states in Afghanistan. There are 47, 48 states in Afghanistan with 131,000 soldiers. So if the number of soldiers per population of the Republic of Croatia were seen, it would be somewhere in the middle. So, the 20th. And if the average number of soldiers per population were applied then there would be 517 Croatian soldiers present, and as we see today we increase them to 350. If there were to be a stake in GDP in how many soldiers there would be in relation to the country's wealth, then there would be 187 Croatian soldiers there. So, twice as much as we send them for this decision. So looking at these two criteria this 350 number is one kind of compromise. And when counterpart Biljic said he was not happy that our soldiers were going, so in those areas, it's still much better than if NATO soldiers came here as they did back in the '90s. The role of the Ministry of Defence in such decisions should, in fact, be to determine whether or not it can carry out any of the tasks required by the Allies following consultations carried out in the Head of Staff in the Government and with the President of the Republic. So I believe that in the debates that were being held there, no one has accepted any task they can't carry out. I am more interested in this political part of this story, which is that the debate is finally being launched in Croatia, and this needs to be led by someone else not by the military, whether this mission is in line with therefore the foreign interests of the Republic of Croatia. And the SDP can't run from it. During the SDP government, soldiers went to Afghanistan, the SDP voted all the time because it needed a two-thirds majority in the previous assembly of parliament and now, to stay on the mission. The SDP candidate won the presidential election and sent us agreement on this decision. The members of the SDP are also on his team dealing with military issues, and the SDP will vote for this decision despite the fact that for the first time in the new constitution, we do not need our support to make this decision. But we are a responsible party that understands the state's interests, which is ready to lead this country and we will not, for the sake of daily-political reasons, invent the reasons why we should be against this decision. And that should be made clear. I deeply believe that this decision would not come to us if there was no such awareness in the Croatian military that this task could be fulfilled and I believe that there is no political pressure that would force the leadership of the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff to accept something they cannot accomplish. Dear colleagues and colleagues in 2003 have testified, but only one morning, to attempt to manipulate this operation when the then head of the opposition in the morning was against the decision and the afternoon for. Well-versed sources claim he was called by an American ambassador, and according to his testimony, he was called the mothers of soldiers who should go there. I'm more likely to do this first, but it doesn't matter. The fact is also that there may not be such a big public debate in the country about our participation in Afghanistan, and because a large number of soldiers participating in the mission or I think everyone has applied for the mission and so there is still more, so soldiers who want to go on a mission in Afghanistan. It seems to me that when it stops, so when there are no more numbers of people volunteering for the mission, then a big public debate begins. Until then, it is only for us to hope that this, but also some other missions in which we send Croatian soldiers, which we have together all these years raised our hand or pressed this voting button, will not be part of the daily-political bickering and in that sense convinced that there is a decision before us in which all the political factors gave a positive opinion of the peaceful conscience I will vote for this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64928	Thank you. We have one correction and two replicas. The first is the correction of an incorrect quote, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Bauk, I will correct your completely incorrect claim and your claim that you are one responsible party and that you will soon assume power. Neither you are a responsible party, nor you will take over very soon. And you're not responsible because in all the key things for the Republic of Croatia, you've been leaving this House, so just to get back, excuse me, Mr. President, back in the budget, sorry, that's your claim that you're responsible, you're not. Therefore, do not deceive the people. You're going out of the assembly when there's important things to vote for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64930	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64931	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 was violated because Mrs. Sumrak, in correcting incorrect allegations, called for something that is yet to happen, so she certainly doesn't know if we're going to take power, so that can't be an incorrect assumption. That might be your opinion. You could replicate it nicely to me and get an adequate answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64932	Thank you very much, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and please and you personally did not make the same corrections, you were correcting incorrect allegations. Come on, we got two lines. Dear Representative Berislav Roncevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64933	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk is responsible for power, and you say you will be responsible for authority and that you are a responsible party, the only thing he does is indiscriminately inform the public. It is not true that you did not want to send soldiers to Iraq, your government in 2003 in the 6th or 7th month of 2003 at the closed part of the session draws a conclusion that is in charge of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia to prepare troops for Iraq. The only one who opposed this no matter what my opinion of this gentleman is then President Stjepan Mesic, there is a written conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in the term of office of President Ivica Racan on 6 or 7 months 2003, thank God the archives are over-seeable. Do not deceive the public, your memory given the age of life is not so thin that you would not remember it, the truth is that you have reached the conclusion that you are preparing the consumption for Iraq, the only one who opposed it is Mr. Stjepan Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64934	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64935	Dear Mr. Representative, my memory is well, I was then president of the Forum of Youth SDP, and I organized members of the Youth Forum to protest in the "Enough Wars" square against going to Iraq. The SDP never made a decision to support this departure, personally I was against it, politically as much as it was in its political function then I could participate in myself, there are documents about it, and if your memory is better, if there is something I don't know I'm going to check it out and we can discuss it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64936	Thank you. And another replica of the esteemed representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64937	Honored counterpart Bauk, no matter how responsible the Republic of Croatia is a NATO member, and it is, no matter how many Croatian soldiers are in Afghanistan, if you can say so, favorites compared to other soldiers, which are, because they are from these international reports, it is interesting that on the NATO site, or ISAF, there is the wrong information about the number of troops that Croatia has in Afghanistan. Now we're going to increase them, and here's the wrong data. Why is the Ministry of Defence so impotent that it does not wish to warn that it is wrong so that the Urbi et orbi will also be made public to the world and Europe that we are responsible and well doing our duties as a NATO member.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64938	Thank you. Lastly, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Branko Vukelic, defence minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor and gentlemen. Thank you for the debate, thank you to everyone who supports this proposal, I continue to call on everyone to support this Decision, because this decision is not as someone here said compensation for leaving some other partners from Afghanistan, so we're sending another 30 soldiers, it's simply not true, it's not true. This decision, which we are discussing here today, and which I believe you will make, is another indicator of Croatia's determination and responsibility as members of the NATO Alliance, as well as members of the International Community, to participate responsibly in the implementation of that concept, the new concept of the international community and NATO alliance when it comes to Afghanistan which was the same talk and words here, which is the concept that, by training the Afghan police and the military, the creation of security conditions also enables the return of our soldiers and the return of all soldiers involved in the operation, and I would tell concern and concern about the future and security of Afghanistan to be left to the institutions of that state, the military and police. And by this concept of strategic we are now in phase 3 is said here, creating security conditions, about these operations that you all know well enough, are not involved in Croatian armed forces, so they are headed against the rebels, against the terrorists, we are preparing for this transition phase, which is the training of the Afghan army and police, and this is our contribution that our partners expect us to give because they recognize our strength, expertise and quality when it comes to training the Afghan army and police. Therefore, this phase of transition by assessment and plan should end by 2014 and thus create preconditions for returning from Afghanistan and our armed forces. It is a concept adopted by NATO, we strongly support this concept and support it and we support participation in this operation and a common return of all, so when we create these conditions that the people of Afghanistan can live peacefully and that the institutions of Afghanistan are taking care of their citizens about security, peace and order. This is what is the subject of today's debate, not any compensation for the departure of some members and some countries. There has been a lot of talk here about how our troops are prepared, whether they are well prepared to be well equipped with all the resources they need to be, so I want to confirm once again that our soldiers are well-trained, that our soldiers are extremely well equipped, I repeat, Mrs Antunovic, extremely well equipped at the top of the equipment for those tasks they perform, because they do not carry out any military tasks, we know that they are not in the south, on more dangerous zones or in war operations, but therefore they have other tasks and are also well-paid, this is also witnessed by their volunteering departure and constant reporting, so I will say that there have not yet arrived in line for someone who is waiting to go to Afghanistan. The motive is, among other things, financial and we know it well. Therefore, whether they could be better paid anyway, but when we look at the reality that is in Croatia, economic, economic and other then they are well paid for this job, but above all very important, that they are well-trained, equipped, because above all their safety should be our first priority, and I think it is in the first place. In this regard, I would like to say to Mr Kotromanović that when we talk about fighting for the MORH, for financial resources, that I am extremely pleased that the government in the budget for next year recognized both what the MORH and the Armed Forces were doing in the past years and what should be done in the coming years. 4.6% has increased the defence ministry's budget, primarily as a result of important military equipment and modernisation projects. Therefore, the government has clearly recognised, thus saying that someone is not fighting enough for the MORH might sound like someone has the means but someone is not struggling to take the funds. And both the MORH and the Armed Forces, we all have to live in the circumstances in which Croatia lives, and it can't be an island that doesn't see both the difficulty and the economic and economic, therefore, in these circumstances I am particularly pleased that the government has found opportunities and a way to increase the defence ministry's budget by 4.6% next year. And when it comes to voting here, I also want to remind all of us that there was no unanimity in past decisions. I don't think we should know why the signal for me as a minister should be some kind of special signal, if some of the clubs won't support the decision. I think as a minister he'd be quite pleased if all clubs supported the decision, but not everyone had supported it before, so I believe I don't expect unanimity. Everyone has the right to think and think and vote here as they think they should. But I believe that indeed the vast majority here will give support to what is therefore Croatia's policy as members of NATO alliances which they recognise as partners in America as one important strategic partner when it comes to defence issues and military issues as well as other issues. And I can say that Mrs. Antunovic does not recognise the partner position of Croatia, but I will also say that it is not so important. Because it's important that our partners recognize the Americans and other members of the NATO alliance. And recognising us as an important strong partner is this invitation to strengthen our mentoring and instruction forces in Afghanistan in order to improve this process of training the Afghan army and police, so that as soon as possible the Afghan army and police will take over the tasks, and thus the tasks of our soldiers as well as other partners in Afghanistan will not be necessary. That's the meaning of what we're talking about here today, the decision we're talking about. When it comes to whether or not we were discussing this peace operation about ISAF, the material was asked if it was ready. He's ready. The secretary can show it here. So he's moving towards the Parliament and it's going to be for the last two rotations of the situation in Afghanistan and everything our soldiers, officers do, perform their duties, will be presented and can be debated. There are no secrets, no secrets, no information about what our soldiers, our members of the Armed Forces are doing in Afghanistan. Will there be enough resources? Yeah. why the funds in those positions are smaller, you should know that we, above all, have reduced the number of soldiers in the past period. We should also know that we are changing the structure when it comes to the ISAF operation of our members in terms of the tasks they perform. So we from an existing contingent that is now in Afghanistan are actually increasing the number of instructors, mentors of those who will be at school, police, any other schools of artillery, aviation, etc. Therefore, some of the costs related to the presence and participation of our members in the mission are reduced, but in any event during the year if the need for funds is shown, it will certainly be sufficiently and found and secured because so far it will never be in the future that any position related to our members of the Armed Forces in the ISAF Mission or in any other mission has been questioned when it comes to financing. These positions don't touch, they don't reduce rebalancing or any budgeting. Neither when it comes to equipment for soldiers, nor when it comes to other funds needed for peacekeeping missions. And so it has been so far, I repeat, so it will be in the future. I said volunteering was defined by the Law on Participation in Peace Missions, it is the principle on which it has been agreed and will be sent in the future until the law changes. What's also a fact is that our members of the Armed Forces appear voluntarily and that these lists are always and greater than we have the opportunity to send into rotation. So, interest exists and that is exactly what volunteering is an important factor I would say to all of us when we make decisions to send our soldiers on that mission and any other mission. When we talk about medals, the Chief of Staff made a proposal, and he's on the lookout, and I think he's being forwarded to the president of the state as well. So, I support the idea that we also introduce these qualities and that every member of the Armed Forces who goes into peacekeeping missions not only has a medal for this, has one lasting token of his country's gratitude for what he did, worked and presented Croatia. But also clearly implemented the policy of the Croatian state which we have defined when it comes to participating in peacekeeping missions. What was also mentioned here, I mean, we don't have for now in our rotations in the constant composition of psychologists. But psychologists have been and have gone and followed our soldiers in Afghanistan and we are dealing with their condition, so on their return from Afghanistan and also on rehabilitation, on the subject of Hotel Zagreb which we are about to arrange for us to have better facilities for their vacation, rehabilitation after returning from peace missions. So we take care and care of these people who, above all, have one special living conditions, which are not conditions such as those in Croatia. I also want to say once again for a comment, I think it was the HNS club that was talking about the possibility that within 320 members of the Armed Forces, by restructuring, we would give more instructors and mentors, so we did and did. So, plus these 30 new ones we're proposing that are also mentors, we'll practically get to 350 members of the Armed Forces will be half those who mentor any Afghan army of any police. So our work there focuses precisely on training both the army and the police Afghans so that they can carry out their own tasks and worry and ensure security in their own country as soon as possible. It should also be said that if the Parliament makes a decision, which I believe, that the preparations for sending an additional number of troops will take some time. We need to train people and we expect that only in the autumn of next year will we be able to reach 350 in a rotation that would go in the autumn of 2011. So you're not talking about sending right now, it's going to have a clear then, and I'd say a different financial impact, so less for next year's budget. But first of all, we need to prepare people well, and we need to give people all those trainings that are important before going on such a serious and responsible mission and accomplishing the tasks that are set before them. Here, I believe I've been able to answer all those questions that were enough and those dilemmas that were being talked about here. What I finally want to point out again and say, the increase that we are talking about here today is not an increase as a consequence of the departure of some countries from Afghanistan, so we are sending our soldiers, but is our contribution to a new concept, or concept that has a very one phase of transition, which is the stage to train the Afghan army and police to carry out their own tasks by 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64940	Thank you. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. She is the first to be respected representative of Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64941	Answering the debate, the minister misread or incorrectly interpreted two of my allegations from the debate. In fact, Mr. Minister, I didn't say that our soldiers were poorly equipped and poorly paid rather than give great results, and that they were slightly less well-equipped and paid. That's a big difference. Another inaccuracy is that it refers to my alleged lack of understanding of the partner relations of the Republic of Croatia in the context of NATO and the United States. I think that Croatia is a great partner, correcting the alleged, excellent partner in this military part, but I think that it is a very bad partner in the political part or more accurately, I have objections to the political segment on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I think that your partner interests that you are better government could do much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64942	Thank you. A second correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Ante Kotromanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64943	Mr. Minister, you said the government recognized the importance of the MORH and increased the funds. I'd say, and I'll argue that's not the case. In the past year, this same government has seized about a billion kuna in funds when it comes to the MORH. Now they've increased something by an eye, they've brought back about 200 and some million kunas. It's not absolutely good, and we know it's too little resources, given the number of soldiers we have on the number of forces. And we've spoken more than once, and we have to use our capacities. We have abandoned military, abandoned land unspectived. We could've long ago secured ourselves a squadron of free planes or MiGs or Falcons that we had had a little better control over buildings, land and business spaces, for example. There are several thousand in Split, and they are mostly abandoned and empty since '91, '92. A year. I think we have the capacity here, and at that point, I'll see that the government gives more importance to the MORH when it activates that famous phrase of all resources to make our forces much more quality and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64944	Thank you. And the third correction of an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Boris Sprem, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry there can't be a replica because it's said it can only give a correction to an incorrect quote in this case when speaking to the minister on behalf of the promoter. In fact, Mr. Minister said he didn't know why he would be worried if someone wouldn't vote from the MPs, that it was no longer a problem. Namely, I think that if we take that, since 2002, the Croatian Parliament's decision to refer our troops to Afghanistan and elsewhere has been made, everyone has always tried to reach the maximum consensus. I must say, at last session when a decision was made in April to increase from 300 to 320 soldiers in Afghanistan that 123 MPs voted for, 3 were abstentions. Now, two representatives' clubs are announcing they won't vote for this proposal, so I'd still be a little worried...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64946	Thank you very much. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64947	And I thought about why that is, so I think it would be good if...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64948	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64949	The more consensus we reach in this debate in this House and make a decision with as much consensus as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64950	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. This was a mini-replication, no correction to an incorrect quote. Okay. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64951	Second, the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peace mission in a peace operation in Afghanistan. The Proposer is the Government. In accordance with Article 7. The Republic of Croatia's decision-making constitution requires a majority of all MPs, 77 votes. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Please engage, we can vote. The result? 100 votes for, 1 abstention, 2 against the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64952	And we move to the second item of the agenda, which is - The proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union peace operation "EU NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta" is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government has proposed this decision on the basis of Article 4. Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, police, civil protection and civil servants and subsistence officers in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Defence Committee and the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Branko Vukelic, defence minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The involvement of members of the Armed Forces in the peacekeeping mission Atalanta NAVFOR Somalia is in line with the intention of contributing to the development of the operational capabilities of the European Union for action in joint disarmament operations, humanitarian tasks and rescue tasks, conflict prevention and peacekeeping tasks and the task of combat forces in crisis management. By participating in this operation, the Republic of Croatia confirms its strategic goal - membership in the European Union, and thereby contributes to the European Union's ability to manage crises. By contributing to Operation Atalanta, the Republic of Croatia joined the joint effort of EU member states to combat piracy and ensure smooth navigation. The mandate of the operation includes the protection of ships under the flag of the World Food Programme, the protection of merchant ships, the taking of necessary steps including the use of force, deterrence, prevention and intervention to end piracy and armed robbery in the field of operation. The important decision made by this High House a year ago enabled our Armed Forces to participate in this operation in 2010 with up to five members. Currently, the Republic of Croatia is participating in a peace operation with an officer in the Northwood Operation Command in Great Britain and an officer who boarded a warship of the Italian Republic and an officer who is due to board a warship of the Kingdom of Spain these days. Since the Council of the European Union announced on 14 June 2010 an extension of Atalanta's operation for another two years, i.e. up to 12 years. In December 2012 the Republic of Croatia will also during 2011 and '12. to actively contribute to the peace operation through the involvement of its Navy officers on ships of members of the European Union and at the headquarters of the operation up to five members of the Armed Forces. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to make a decision in which five members of the Armed Forces in 2011 and 2012 in order to rotate and empower the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the duration of rotation, number and organisational structure of members of the Armed Forces in the peace operation. Funding for the cost of participation of members in the peace operation is planned in the state budget under the Department of Defence's division and amounts to slightly less than 2 million kuna per year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64954	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The defense committee? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. The first is the HNS-HSU club, the distinguished representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64955	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation "ATALANTA-NAVFOR SOMALIA" is the result of the activities of the Council of the European Union which extended Operation "ATALANTA" until 12 December 2012. The reason for the extension of the peace operation by another two years is the increased pirate action outside the current area of the "ATALANTA" force. The problem is the processing of arrested pirates. In fact, Kenya has cancelled the processing of arrested pirates, so members of the European Union are in search of new countries that would accept and process pirates. Finally, the decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation "ATALANTA-NAVFOR-SOMALIA" is contained in four points. According to point one, the Croatian Parliament is determined to decide on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the "ATALANTA" peace operation. In the peace operation "ATALANTA" in 2011 and 2012, up to 5 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are referred to, therefore, annually and with the possibility of rotation. Point two empowers the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish permanent rotations, number and organisational structure of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation "ATALANTA". Point three obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report to the High House after the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the peacekeeping mission has been completed. Point four shall also specify the date on which the decision takes effect. The HNS Club, HSU will support the motion for this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64956	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64957	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It should be said immediately that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union peace operation "NAVFOR-SOMALIA-ATALANTA". After the Council of the European Union announced on 14 October 2010, the extension of Operation "ATALANTA" for another two years, i.e. until 12 December 2012, the Republic of Croatia will actively contribute to the peace operation by the involvement of its Navy officers on ships of members of the European Union and at the headquarters of the operation. Therefore, up to 5 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in total. By participating in the European Union peace operation, the Republic of Croatia continues to confirm its strategic goal of membership in the European Union and thus contribute to the European Union's crisis management capabilities. By contributing to the peace operation "ATALANTA" the Republic of Croatia joined the joint effort of EU member states aimed at combating piracy and ensuring smooth navigation. The participation of members of the Croatian Navy is useful both in the plan to acquire practical knowledge and experience in terms of further raising interoperability, ability, or coordination in terms of staff work. The complexity of the existing situation in the area, as well as the need to coordinate and find a balance between the operational and legal components of the operation, the extradition and judicial process of the arrested pirates, the successful resolution and these moments further enhance military efficiency, but also the further construction of public support for this operation in the participating countries. Currently, the European Union has signed international extradition agreements with Kenya and Marseilles. Moreover, there is a need to further improve the existing forms of international legal cooperation for the processing of arrested pirates. The forces of the European Union participating in a peace operation consist of 6 ships and three naval patrol aircraft while the human component comprises a contingent of 1200 members. The operation includes ships and aircraft of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain, the Federal Republic of Germany, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Helen Republic, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Kingdom of Sweden. Also, a number of military personnel of this operation are assigned to the operational command of the operation itself, which is located in Northwood Great Britain. In addition to the Republic of Croatia since 2009, the Kingdom of Norway as a non-member country of the European Union has also participated in a peace operation, and Montenegro as well as Ukraine have announced their contribution to the operation "ATALANTA". It should be pointed out that a concrete operation is a form of practical realization of increasingly intensive co-operation and co-ordination on the political agenda between the European Union and the NATO Alliance. Finally, as regards the security situation in the field of European Union peace operation, "ATALANTA" is assessed in the short term by the low-risk mission. Due to the presence of terrorist groups in the region and the announcement of a comprehensive intensification of activities on the plan to jeopardise the smooth development of maritime navigation, i.e. the threat of maritime safety in the medium term could also be expected to result in a continuing deterioration of the existing security situation. However, despite such a limited potential for significant deterioration of overall security opportunities in the operational area, and the basis of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia stemming from our orientation in terms of responsible membership in the Euro-Atlantic associations of the HDZ Club supports the proposal for this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64958	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64959	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the involvement of members of the Armed Forces in the NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta peace operation is in line with the intention of contributing to the development of the operational capabilities of the European Union for action in joint disarmament operations, humanitarian tasks and rescue tasks, conflict prevention and peacekeeping tasks in the task of combat forces in crisis management. By participating in this peace operation, the Republic of Croatia confirms its strategic goal of membership in the European Union and thereby contributes to the European Union's ability to manage crises. By contributing to Operation Atalanta, the Republic of Croatia joined the joint effort of the members of the European Union in... combating pressure and ensuring uninterrupted navigation. [[You don't understand.]] The mandate of the operation includes the protection of ships under the flag of the World Food Programme, the protection of commercial vessels, the taking of necessary steps including the use of the deterrence, prevention and intervention forces to end piracy and armed robbery in the field of operation. In December 2009, the Croatian Parliament decided on the participation of members of our Armed Forces in this operation, according to which up to 5 members can be directed into the operation with the possibility of rotation in 2010. Currently, the Republic of Croatia is participating in a peace operation with an officer in the operation command... in Great Britain, an officer who boarded the Italian Republic warship and an officer who will board the warship of the Kingdom of Spain in December 2010. [[You don't understand.]] As the Council of the European Union announced on 14 June 2010, the extension of the Atalanta operation by two more years, i.e. by 12 December 2012. The Republic of Croatia will actively contribute to the peace operation through the engagement of its... officers on ships of members of the European Union and at the headquarters of the operation of a total of 5 members of the Armed Forces. [[You don't understand.]] It is therefore proposed to the Croatian Parliament to decide on a decision to refer this peace operation in 2011 and 2012 to 5 members of the Armed Forces with the possibility of rotating and empower the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the duration of rotation and number of organisational structures of members of the Armed Forces in the peace operation. The funding for the participation costs of members in the peace operation was planned in the state budget under the development of the Ministry of Defence, amounting to $1.62 million per year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64960	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64961	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's just a few words about that piracy in the Somali waters. We are aware, and we can read or see daily what is happening and what is the reason why this poor woman who was forced into this piracy, and how, when she came to life. In Somalia's waters, the consequences of the 18-year absence of state authorities, when the Islamic Courts' alliance declared piracy a criminal offence in 2006 and imposed a death penalty, then piracy disappeared, or ceased. Soon thereafter, however, the Ethiopian troops overturned the same court, and piracy revived. At that time, over a thousand to a thousand and 500 former soldiers, fishermen, unemployed people, and have begun the abduction of these ships, unfortunately these people who are pirates on the sea are certainly poor and developed soldiers, poor fishermen, while these pirated large millions earn organized gangs within the state, so I hope that there will be some changes to the law in Somalia itself to reduce this piracy by legal means, because we can see that the ships and patrolling of those waters are not the effect we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64962	Thank you. And the last individual, distinguished representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64963	Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. As regards this NAVFOR Atalanta mission, it is important to mention once again that it is a European operation, a joint European operation, related to European security and defence policy. The fact is that many European ships were attacked in the waters, the Somali waters, the Aden Bay, because pirates do not come exclusively from Somalia, but from neighbouring Yemen. The fact is that this is the result of extreme poverty in the republic, in the Islamic Republic of Somalia, where the population remained deprived of any source of income. They were also hit by tsunamis a few years ago, so most of their fishing fleet was destroyed. However, since the truth is not only black white, Somalia has certain rights and it is related to the convention... , and the practice of the European community as well. [[You don't understand.]] They have the right to an economic zone 200km from the coast, which is not respected by many African, any other international fishing fleets, and is estimated to suffer some 300m dollars of damage from unauthorized fishing each year. They use the Somali pirates as an excuse for their activities related to the purpose of defending their economic belt by presenting themselves as the Coast Guard. This is really funny, even in the context of international, not even in the context of international law, because they attack merchant ships not fishing and the fact is that the International Community in this case, the EU, but in cooperation with NATO, had to react. However, the International Community should also work to protect Somalia’s economic interests and, in essence, to combat illegal economic and fishing activities in their waters. We as a very, very small country of course do not have any influence on this, but our 5 officers who participate, or 5 people who participate in this mission defend and brighter cheek for our maritime traditions and also represent the Republic of Croatia in this extremely important mission of the EU. This is the right way to promote European and security defence policies on the ground. Since this is a purely defensive mission, I support this law and the participation of our forces at least symbolically in the NAVFOR-ATALANT mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64964	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64965	Third, a proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation "EU NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta". The Proposer is the Government. It also needs 77 votes. Please engage and we'll vote. The result? With 101 votes for, 2 abstentions made the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64966	We move to point 3., that is - The Final Proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Cooperation Agreement on Atomic Data with the Secret Technical Appendix to the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Data Cooperation and the Classified Security Supplement to the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Cooperation relating to Atomic Data, the Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 662. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Branko Vukelic, defence minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64967	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Croatia's membership in the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, therefore in NATO was its foreign policy security priority, which was achieved by joining NATO. By laying down an access document to the North Atlantic Treaty on 1 April 2009, the Republic of Croatia became a full member of NATO and is expected to become party to certain international agreements that constitute a legal gain of NATO. In this House of Commons last year and this year, we passed a series of laws that make up the legal gain of NATO, and we are facing another such law today. On the basis of the signing authorisation established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of this Agreement with the Supplements of 16 April 2010, the US Ambassador to the United States signed an extraordinary and authorised power. By confirming this agreement, the Republic of Croatia will meet the internal legal requirements for the application of its provisions governing the notification of atomic data between the parties' governments and NATO bodies. This will create a legal framework for interoperability with defence ministries and the Armed Forces of other NATO member states in this legal area. This law confirms the agreement so that its provisions within the meaning of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The agreement regulates cooperation on atomic data in accordance with the US Atomic Energy Act of 1954. The U.S. Government shall notify the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty including its military and civilian elements and Member States of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Union which need atomic data in connection with their activities related to NATO tasks and those atomic data identified by the Government of the United States for the development of defence plans, training staff on the use and defence of atomic weapons and other military uses of atomic energy, assessing the ability of possible enemies to use atomic weapons and other military uses of nuclear energy and the development of transmission systems compatible with atomic weapons. In this respect, this Agreement constitutes the necessary legal framework for the smooth implementation of the tasks of the North Atlantic Treaty organisation and its Member States in connection with their action related to the clear NATO tasks. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts, which both the State and formally express its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract and the fact that amendments or additions to the text of the international contract cannot be made at this stage of the procedure, we propose that you support the proposed law confirming the agreement in question, whose implementation will be in the area of the Ministry of Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64968	Thank you. We're collecting quorum for the vote. We've got 75 MPs in the assembly so far. Please, who else is out there to join in and we'll vote for the supplement. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for a Act confirming the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Cooperation Agreement relating to atomic data with a secret technical addendum to the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Data Cooperation and a confidential security add-on to the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Data Cooperation, was its external and security priority, which was achieved through the accession of the North Atlantic Treaty. By laying down the instruments of accession to the North Atlantic Treaty on 1 April 2009, the Republic of Croatia became a full member of NATO and is expected to become a party to certain international agreements that constitute the legal gains of NATO for which internal legal procedures are required. There is one before us today, before us another such international contract, the Republic of Croatia has given its consent to be tied to this agreement by signing itself, followed by the adoption of a ratification document. The agreement regulates cooperation on atomic data in accordance with the requirements of the United States Atomic Energy Act 1954. Its entry into force regulates the legal framework governing the notification of atomic data between the Governments of the Parties and NATO bodies in order to develop defence plans, training of persons, in the use of defences against atomic weapons, the assessment of the capabilities of possible enemies in the use of atomic weapons, the development of the transfer of nuclear weapons systems, which is an important basis for the continuation of international defence and cooperation of the Republic of Croatia in the new status. This will create a legal framework for the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces in other NATO member states in this area. In order to implement this Act, it is not necessary to provide additional funding from the State budget, and the resources from the State budget intended for the Ministry of Defence will be used to implement the Law. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64970	Thank you, please establish the quorum. 78, I suggest we stop the debate for a moment and complete the agenda, given that some appear to have no keys here, I suggest we vote manually, if that's okay with you? Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. Thank you very much. We are continuing to debate the turn of the HNS HSU Club's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. We move on to an individual debate, the first is the distinguished representative Angelko Mihalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64972	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The membership of the Republic of Croatia in NATO was a... foreign and security priority achieved by joining the North Atlantic Treaty. The adoption of an access document to the North Atlantic Treaty on 1 April 2009 has made the Republic of Croatia a full member of NATO and is expected to become a party to certain international agreements that constitute the legal gains of NATO and for which internal legal procedures need to be implemented. We are facing another such International Treaty today, the Republic of Croatia has given its consent to be bound by this agreement by signing itself, followed by the laying of a ratification document. On the basis of the signing authorisation established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the decision to initiate procedures for the conclusion of the agreement, agreements and additions to the Agreement on 16 April 2010, the United States of America signed an extraordinary and authorised ambassador to the Republic of Croatia. The agreement lays down cooperation regarding atomic data in accordance with the requirements of the United States Atomic Energy Act 1954. Its entry into force establishes a legal framework governing the dissemination of atomic data between the parties' governments and NATO bodies to develop defence plans, training staff on the use and defence of nuclear weapons, assessing the ability of an enemy to use atomic weapons, developing the advantages of a nuclear weapons transmission system, which is an important basis for the continuation of international defence cooperation of the Republic of Croatia in the new status. This will create a legal framework for interoperability with the defence ministries, the Armed Forces in other NATO member states in this legal area. The proposed law confirms the agreement so that its provisions within the meaning of our Constitution become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the nature of the procedures for the confirmation of international contracts, which the state also formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract, this law is adopted by an urgent procedure and I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64973	Thanks a lot, buddy. A prominent colleague, Zdenko Franic, also applied for an individual debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64974	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. In today's time when it became evident that the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction has become a reality and that the international community has no effective response to that fact, this law should certainly be supported. However, the fact is that it indicates in a painful way that the EU is passively following the US doctrine of nuclear and atomic weapons, as well as the fight against non-proliferation or efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The fact is that some countries have become the nuclear forces of India, Pakistan, North Korea, most likely Israel, South Africa is the question probably the moment when it will become Iran, and South Korea has declared itself to step up efforts in this regard because it cannot rely on the defence shield of its Western allies. Atomic data in a broader sense include data relating to seismics, data relating to basic radiation related to environmental contamination, data relating to acoustics that are very important because they indicate the unwanted presence of some nuclear vessels, submarines in the sea and oceans. In addition, it is important to establish the basic forest in certain seas. The Republic of Croatia can indeed offer a great deal in this respect, as it offers the international community. The Republic of Croatia is very active compared to its size in the International Organisation for the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons popularly named after its STBTO. When STBTO's colleagues were on a mission to the Republic of Croatia, they were developed with the level of expertise that the Republic of Croatia could offer. Especially in the area of seismics, geophysicals, the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics, and it is not simply a miracle since Andrija Mohorovčić was one of the leading international seismists, it is also called the Moho layer of the earth's crust. As a result, the Republic of Croatia today is very strong in this segment of seismics, acoustics and indeed has something to offer to the international community, no matter how complicated this law is. He's very subtle and welcome. However, let us hope that the EU will also recognise, within its European security and defence policies, the need to engage more actively in this area, because the US legislation of '54. The year simply doesn't correspond to the reality of the 21st century anymore. But probably because of the very complicated diplomatic mechanisms for the adoption of a new convention, even in the framework of NATO, this legislation still applies. I would warn here and another very, very regrettable fact at the world level, and we are not immune here or in Croatia, namely the level of nuclear knowledge of radiation science as such is rapidly getting worse in the world frameworks. Less and less people, or young students, are enrolling in the science and technical colleges of especially those of nuclear professions. So in a broader context, the question arises, when we sign this law, even if it applies mostly to military structures, but the saying includes civil structures especially in that part of preparation and defence against atomic weapons, assessment of capabilities, etc., development of plans. The question arises who will be able to do so in a few years' time. The collateral sacrifice of reducing the level of nuclear knowledge at global level is also medical physics in Croatia. The fewer and fewer staff are available for work in hospitals, nuclear medicine, treatment with tumour radiation, as well as in the wider context of radiation protection in the Republic of Croatia. Staff are gone, something needs to be done not tomorrow but right now, to stimulate the enrollment of young people in the colleges of that kind. This problem is also aware of the International Atomic Energy Agency, so it should be mentioned that it was recently held in the Republic of Croatia thanks to our scientists and experts and one workshop of the International Atomic Energy Agency just dedicated to the possibility of hiring young people after completing universities related to nuclear and radiological sciences. The Republic of Croatia has made a significant step within the European Union by uniting the State Institute for radiation protection and the State Nuclear Security Office. This is where we have proven to be far-sighted since Racan's government which has advocated this because here the European Union has also adopted a guidelines for countries that have not done so to act in this direction to unite nuclear security and to protect against radiation. Unfortunately, in negotiating Chapter 15. Energy, where one organ inspection formula has been negotiated, is not respected in this process of unifying these two institutions, and here the European Commission has given us certain packages because it is dissatisfied with the independence of an inspection dealing with radiological and nuclear security. And it should be recalled once again that the negotiating chapters are only temporarily closed and that in case of non-compliance they can be reopened and this should be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64975	Thank you very much. There are no other individual applications. We have a final address application. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, dear colleague of Danica Hursa. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. In 2009, the Republic of Croatia became a full member of NATO and is expected to become a party to certain international agreements that make up the legal gain of NATO, for which an agreement was signed between the parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Information Cooperation on 16 April 2010. Confirmation of the agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Cooperation Agreement concerning atomic data with a secret technical supplement and a confidential security supplement, the Republic of Croatia will meet the internal legal requirements for the application of its provisions governing the notification of atomic data between the governments of the parties and the NATO authorities. This will create a legal framework for interoperability with defence ministries and the armed forces of other NATO member states in this legal area. The HNS-HSU club will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64977	Thank you very much. Minister, should we conclude? No, I don't. Then I'm closing this point. We will vote as usual when voting on other laws and when conditions are for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64978	Fourthly, the Final Proposal for a Act confirming the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Cooperation Agreement on Atomic Data with a secret technical add-on to the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Data Cooperation and a confidential security add-on to the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Data Cooperation. The debate is closed. Let's vote, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that, unanimously with 102 votes, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64979	We are moving on to the fourth item of the agenda, and it is - The final draft law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Agreement on financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the multiannual Operational Programme "Transport" to assist the Community in pre-accession assistance instruments under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 657 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an urgent procedure. Amendments as usual and as prescribed by our Rules of Procedure may be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was also carried out by committees, including the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. Reports from the board's session were received in writing. On behalf of the promoter here is Mr. Hrvoje Dolenec, State Secretary. Please, if you'd like an opening explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64980	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen and Madam Representatives, before you is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the Operational Programme "Transport" from the "Regional Development" component of the IPA programme. I'll just say something about it briefly and I'm open to questions if there are any. Therefore, the first IPA project financing agreement was concluded in November 2008 for the 2007-2009 budget period. The Croatian Parliament also confirmed in November 2008. What we are proposing now is that these laws confirm the financial agreements that add two more new allocations, two more annual new allocations for these agreements for an additional period of two years, 2010 and 2011. The agreement was signed on 2 November 2010 and only a few words about the size of this... Agreement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The total value of this Operational Programme Transport is 833.9 million kuna for the 2007-2011 budget period, 708.8 million kuna or 96.7 million euros is secured from the IPA programme. Thus, grants from the EU budget. The state budget must also ensure co-financing of an additional 125.1m kuna or 17m euros, and the implementation of this operational programme works on projects that modernise the rail infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia and prepare capital projects in the internal navigation sector, i.e. inland water navigation. Only from the perspective of the IPA allocation to the 2007/2009 budget period. of 53.5m euros, we add new IPA allocations of 43.5m euros for project implementation. And what's important is to point out as an emergency procedure proposal. Therefore, the confirmation of this Agreement shall ensure that the Republic of Croatia has an advance payment for these additional financial years, for these additional allocations, while at the same time promoting or supporting the acceleration of the implementation of this operational programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64981	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Tomljanovic? Maric? Linic? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished colleague Milivo Škvorc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64982	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme "Transport" for assistance from pre-accession assistance instruments under the regional development component in Croatia. Why? It is an agreement of 2 November 2010 following the negotiations and the successful work of our diplomacy and the Central Office for Development and Strategy and Coordination of the European Union Funds, which would allow Croatia to use pre-accession aid for an additional period of two years, which is 2010 and 2011. When it comes to IPA's resources, our ultimate goal is to use it before the final conclusion of the negotiations as many pre-accession funds as possible. The operational program "Transport" is one of those possibilities. In addition, this is about very important capital projects and investments that are of paramount importance in Croatia right now. Modernisation of rail infrastructure, and we all know how it is right now calling for new serious investment could be the wheel of economic development. This is about serious capital investments, given that the overall value of the operational programme is turnover of 833 million 918 thousand 148.76 kuna or 113 thousand 765 294 euros, and it is important to stress that the European Commission provides 708 thousand 830 428.18 kuna or 96 million 700 000 and 500 euros. For the public, it is necessary to say that the basic part of investment in infrastructure is several projects, which are the modernisation of the railway line on the line Goljak – Skradnik, the modernisation of the railway line on the Križevci line – Koprivnica – the state border. Construction of a freight line bypass on the Zaprešić – Horvati – Turopolje – Dugo Selo line. Modernisation and electrification of the Vinkovci railway – Vukovar, construction of a long track and construction of a double rail on the parts of the railway Long Selo – Novska. Modernization of the railway line on the line Hrvatski Leskovac – Karlovac. Then there is also the second stage of the railway Long Village – Novska. It is also the means to invest in the preparation of capital projects in the internal navigation sector with the necessary modernisation of the projected railways. The successful implementation of this IPA programme, apart from the direct benefit for economic development of Croatia, will also give all participants in the implementation of otherwise very demanding programmes financed by the European Commission and all the necessary experience and knowledge in order to be fully prepared in this sector for the use and far more significant amounts of the European Funds that will be available to us after our entry into full membership. For these reasons, I repeat, the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the Law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64983	Thank you very much, colleague. Now on behalf of the HNS club, HSU counterpart Zlatko Koračević. Here's your colleague, Korakevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64984	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club, the Croatian Party of Pensioners, will support the adoption of this Act and I believe that we will give unanimous support to this bill and it would be good to also discuss the effects resulting from the application of such laws that we are also unanimous. But that's where we get the problem. In fact, the IPA as a financial option of the European Union funds in pre-accession times allows us to prepare for the use of structural and cohesion funds when we join the European Union. In particular, this operational programme gives us the opportunity to prepare ourselves for an operational transport programme which, when we enter the European Union in structural and cohesion funds according to the 2012 and 2013 financial envelope, is at the circus level of 500 million euros, so that we can take advantage of the 500 million euros. And certainly that one of the key preconditions to take advantage of this possibility is quality institutional preparation, the preparation of bodies that manage this operational programme, the preparation of bodies that implement this operational programme, and normally thanks to their quality work and quality projects, quality programmes. When I speak quality projects and quality programmes, programmes, projects and programmes declared for the use of these funds as part of the methodology of the adopted methodology of the European Union, and methodologies in terms of project preparation, methodologies in terms of approval, methodologies in terms of use and methodologies in terms of supervision. That's where we come in. And these problems are already visible in the use of this pre-accession aid. I am now not going to return to the problems we had in 2007, and we know that at one point our funds have been blocked, precisely because of our conditionally said transparent way of spending European money, so we have been reduced even, and specifically in this operational transport programme, we have recently had a report in the Assembly on the use of pre-accession assistance from the European Union, and I have mentioned a few information on this occasion. In particular, I'm only going to be attached here to component 3A traffic, something about which, which is also the subject of a debate on this agenda point. According to the criteria agreed with the European Commission when we signed an agreement on the use of this aid, it was said that we would do certain things in certain elements and certain things within certain deadlines. And among other things, the total amount of tenders announced with 30 September 2010 will be at 80% of the total funding level. But it wasn't 80%, it was 28%. In other words, that we have respected the deadlines that we have taken together with the European Commission and signed and prepared our services to do this job, we would have published tenders with September 30th for 27m euros more. Furthermore, we agreed that by September 30, 2010, we would contract 30% of the total potential, but we agreed not 30%, but agreed 1%, even less than 1%. I repeat until September 30th. After September 30th, I believe a signalling device is being contracted on the Zagreb station, so that number is no longer 1%, but it is not even 30%, it is 12%. In other words, we have missed the opportunity to take advantage of the 15m-euro circus. I believe we'll use it. I hope we use it warmly. I believe that the intelligence and maturity in the Government of the Republic of Croatia has a chance that you are given to take advantage of it, but I am speaking this data purely as an illustration of how effective we are in using something that has been given and something that we are going to approve today, absolutely everyone, and accept, and we have always accepted. Namely, for each operational programme, there are competent authorities who manage this operational programme, specifically for the operational transport programme, the Ministry of the Ministry run by Mr. Kalmeta, with all those services in... Normal HZ infrastructure, in the waterways those in charge of waterways, practically every measure in the operational programme has someone who manages it. [[You don't understand.]] So my question is Minister Calmetti, as a key person, for the effective implementation of this operational program that happened? What happened? Why are we bad at the efficiency of using pre-accession programmes in the operational transport programme? Why and why? I won't mention corruption now. I'm not going to mention those shifts and everything that's going on in HZ, but I'm going to say one thing that's visible, which is that the new HZ infrastructure administration has run the whole system, in a very high-quality way, and every day it faces various problems that the ministry should provide, but it's not ensuring, but among other things, something is happening at this point, and that's that all their designs have failed, all of them have ended up for the commission, to carry out the appeal procedure on public tenders. The board doesn't have enough people, and the whole story now stands. Time goes by, our deadlines pass, our checkpoints tell us how inefficient we are, and what's worst we're not getting ready for what's far more important, because what we're talking about today was in the 2007-2009 programme 53 million euros, I'm talking about European money, what we're talking about today is a new potential of 43 million euros, or a total of 96 million euros. We are talking about the means to be used to prepare for the efficient use of structural cohesion funds in the operational transport programme, and there are over 500 million euros. If we are not able to use 10 times less timely and in an efficient way, with which we can expect that these people in these 3 years from 2007, I will not mention all those teachings through all those other pre-accession programmes since 2006, 2005, will be able to take advantage of that part. Furthermore, something that was not there, a document that we did not have the opportunity to see in the Croatian Parliament as part of the report on the use of operational programmes, but a document that was on one very, very, very, very, very much on one of the Committees of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which monitors the use of funds from EU pre-accession programmes. So specifically in transport, the following is said: regular monthly monitoring of the implementation of the IPA operational program "Transport" has identified problems that significantly affect the effectiveness and timely implementation of the IPARD programme. So he says, among other things, or points to problems in ensuring timely delivery of better quality tender documentation to the previous approval of the EU delegation. The documentation provided so far is not an appropriate level and quality to ensure the rapid processing and quality of the procedure and the arrangements resulting in a high rate of rejected documentation. I will mention once again, the competent authority for the implementation of this operational programme is the Ministry of Transport and Minister Bozidar Kalmeta. So now I ask the question, can representatives in the Croatian Parliament be asked, based on this kind of information, based on good faith and good intentions, because of the future, what is happening to Minister Calmeta, what are the problems? In fact, it is a fact and it is a well-known thing, that at this point we are not ready with the projects either, that we are not ready with people to withdraw money from the European funds that are now at our disposal and that will be available to us. We at the HNS-HSU club keep warning, people, let's secure 100 people for 100 projects, I'm talking colloquial. Let's make it possible for these people, we in every operational program have a third measure called technical assistance. It is precisely these funds designed to stimulate people working on projects and programmes for the use of European money. What have we done here? Nothing. We have one infrastructure of very professional and quality people headed by both the secretary of state and many others, but they are not enough. We are these people, we have made these people simply work to prepare projects from pre-accession funds and work parallelly and to prepare projects for the use of structural... funds when we join the EU. They can't do that. 180 people were proposed, on this particular commission that I read to you, 180 people were to be admitted to the service. No one has been admitted as far as I know, but 180 people have not been admitted. And it's for those 180 people from technical assistance that we have in each operational program, and we have four of them, and we're supposed to have cca million euros on an annual basis. So it's not the money, it's not the money at all. And in conclusion, it is really high time to start preparing ourselves seriously for the use of something that has been given to us, something that is our need, if we want to do so in time in front of us in addition to the obligation to pay the European tax and use the resources at our disposal. Because according to such data, according to this pace of work, according to these results, we are at the moment when we enter the EU absolutely exclusively payment bonds and are not users of the opportunities offered by European funds for a whole series of reasons. Since we are running out of time, and the next item of the agenda is also on the subject, so I will use it for what I still think, on behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, I should say about our readiness to use EU funds we at the HNS-HSU club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64985	Thank you very much. A colleague, Boro Grubisic, on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64986	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs and colleagues. Here we have before us this draft law and operational programme adopted by the Commission by decision 6051 of 7 December 2007. So, today it is either full or completed 3 years since the decision that was taken so far on 7 December 2007, and in connection with the operational programme, to say improvements, modernisation of transport in the Republic of Croatia through the IPA programme or through the assistance it amounts to, let me put it short, 85% in relation to the funds that the Republic invests in the reconstruction, rehabilitation and improvement of transport either by rail, by road or by means of inland waterways from the Danube, Sava and Drava. On the cards that are here in the operational program, I must point out my dissatisfaction because at the borders, on the eastern side where the Danube writes on the page. The 174th writes Serbia-Montenegro as a state bordering the Republic of Croatia, which is not true. So, Vojvodina, a Bačka bordering the Republic of Croatia in the Danube is not Serbia-Montenegro but only officially Serbia. Also, south in Boki Kotorska, so southeasternly it writes Serbia-Montenegro, and it is not true but is Montenegro as a state. Therefore, in such official documents that come to the Croatian Parliament, such things should not happen, but it is now less important. I am more interested in what has been here for 3 years since an operational and adopted operational programme was adopted by the Commission, we have not undertaken or the Republic of Croatia has not undertaken enough that the pre-accession funds, the IPA programmes offered by the European Union as part of the pre-accession of Croatia, could not have been realised and built or started by building these roads sooner. Namely, when it comes to the railroad, it's only 10th pan complexion, or what's called 10th. Pan-European corridor, this complexion from the English hot like the cream used for babies small. It is a corridor that still exists from the former state, which led the two-way line to Novska, and from Novska to Dugi selo to Zagreb was only one track. Why? Well, gentlemen from the east account that they're going to need two colossals to get to Novska, and from Novska they don't have to be, there can be one track in that former state. The justification for this was that there was a parallel railway from Novska via Jasenovac, Sunja, from Sisak to Zagreb and it was the replacement of this two-way railway Novska-Zagreb. We now see, according to the operational plan, that the construction of the railway from the border of Serbia, from Tovarnik to Vinkovec, through ISPA, is that so, Mr. Secretary, and will continue to be built in Sisak-Moslavina County from Novska to the Long Village, reconstruction, although it writes rehabilitation here, although it is a medical concept of the rehabilitation of the railway, but it writes rehabilitation from Long Sela to Novska or vice versa. However, once or as it says here, the railway network in the Republic of Croatia is relatively good in view of the enlarged members of the European Union on the surface of the country. Although I think, not only do I think, but the Chancellor of Germany Bismark said that the state is as strong as the railway and the developed railroad, from every village in Germany you can reach any city through a railway link. At our house half a year ago, the temporary track of Najice-Pletternica was suspended and the line of Sirac-Daruvar was abolished. So there is one tendency with us, the abolitions, the railways say are inconclusive, although the entire HZ system is very questionable, so I got from Mr. Minister a non-formal response that the first rail that will go into reconstruction will just be the Najice-Pletternica railway, but there is probably no promise and joy rhymes so that there is nothing of it. Although priorities from the transport domain are expected, the following results are expected according to this operational programme. And this is to renew the intermodal convention, to improve ties with the European Union, to increase the level of safety on the railways, to reduce traffic jams, to increase efficiency and sustainability. I would add to that by relying on these sentences that I said earlier that it also requires the availability of railways to citizens. When we talk about supporting rail infrastructure, it is precisely enough to ensure greater availability of railways to citizens. From the data that can be found here then we see that corridor 10th or the Pan-European Corridor goes from Austria, through Greece to Turkey, so Salzburg, Villach, Ljubljana, Zagreb, Belgrade, Thessaloniki, in Croatia, so that corridor, Croatia participates in that corridor from 318 km, and we know what the problems and what the speeds are today, why and how it is, I already explained that the two-way track to Novska, and from Novska to Dugi Sela is only one track. Furthermore, Croatia's share of the Pan ten corridor is 317 km, here there is data that during the war, however, I think that only by not wartime action has caused great damage to the railway but also by guessing and encouraging actually road transport, by building road infrastructure there has been a neglect of railways in these 20 years. The conditions in the network leave a lot of room for the railway, only 9% of the Croatian railway is covered by a two-way line, 9%. And only 36% of the total network is electrified, so one third of the total rail network is electrified. When it comes to what would be interesting in operational programme and pre-accession IPA projects, then it is the waterways. Croatia has internal waterways about 800 km, while on the Danube waste is 137,5 km on Sava, on Drava almost 200 km, Kupa almost 6 km, and Una 11 km. So there are 804 km waterways in Croatia, as it says. Since the war sailing can talk about Savi, the Danube is completely floated, somewhere to Brcko it is the 4th category of airworthiness, and here according to Sisak is the 3rd category of airworthiness and it will take a really relatively large procedure to achieve the depth of 2.5 m as prescribed so that ships on internal waterways can come to the port of Sisak, and the development of ports is very important. In doing so, I point out the development of the port of Vukovar and the development of the port of Slavonski Brod, and Sisak, not to forget that my colleague Petir would not be here, so I will not be trodden as the important and most important port on the inland waterways. The other day or last month we talked here about the development of the Sibenik port and adopted the law on the port of Sibenik and on the Gaženica and Dubrovnik port of Gruž, etc. It would be good if these pre-accession funds provided sufficient resources and if the projects were to be such as to withdraw those funds in order to train one of the cheapest modes of transport and transport in the world and then clearly to us, and not to prefer certain other modes of transport mainly roadways, because it is the most expensive, since it is also environmentally questionable, etc. If a further situation on the Sava River is observed, the volume of freight traffic has been destroyed by that prewar when it was reported since 1990 that 7.5 million tonnes have been transported. So it's an impressive number that would be good for certain seaports and overloads in them, when someone has 7.5 million tons of overloads, then it's already a real port. And the Sava River was a turnover of 7.5 million tons, but it could be significantly higher. And not only that, but Slavonia, which is counting on the development of tourism, on the development of continental tourism of all kinds and shapes where, in any case, the airworthiness of the Sava has been gained in this segment of importance and on the possibility of developing its Croatian, Slavonic continental, river, fishing and any other tourism. Therefore, the Sava River, which flows, actually matching the PAN-European 10th Corridor, could now be the transport backbone, so the entire region. But here for these 20 years, all the governments that ruled this country either didn't want to or didn't know or couldn't take advantage of this 10. The PAN-European corridor, which is saddened and why the counties that are located in that part of this beautiful part of ours are actually lagging behind in Slavonia and are, in all economic, economic apart from the number of unemployed, there are strongest, therefore, in the Republic of Croatia. I hope that this operational programme and the legislative proposal will enable good projects to withdraw pre-accession funds so that, with the help of Europe, when our own mother did not want to help us build this part of Croatia that lies on a significant corridor, so 10. PAN-European but also Corridor 5C, which is provided from Kiev to the capital of Ukraine via Budapest, Osijek, Sarajevo to Ploč. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64987	Thank you, fellow Grubisic. We don't have a club application anymore. We're moving on to individual. Dear colleague Ivan Bogovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64988	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, before us is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the multiannual operational Transport Programme. This operational agreement highlights the revitalisation of the railway and internal navigation in Croatia in order to respond to the existing developmental difficulties of the Croatian transport sector and to concentrate limited resources to achieve maximum impact and impact. Furthermore, current energy trends further support the comparative value of railways and inland navigation against road traffic and thus strategic choice in favour of railways and inland navigation. This Agreement covers two measures. The first is the improvement of rail transport in Croatia through measure 1 Upgrade and modernisation of railways and measures 2 Increase the safety and efficiency of railways, while the second priority is to improve the internal navigation system through the measure Modernisation and restoration of river waterways and port infrastructure. By improving the rail system in Croatia, the aim of this priority axis is to break the transport infrastructure in Croatia in particular regarding the interconnection and interoperability of national networks across European networks, the goal is to gradually increase the quality of rail corridor 10 in Croatia in order to increasingly meet EU standards. Corridor 10 passes through Croatia in the length of 317 km and the relationship is Savski Marof-Zagreb-Vinkovci-Tovarnik. We know from the data of the Croatian Railways so the total network in km which in the Republic of Croatia is 2,000 720 km of which 254,3 km of two-way rails, 2 thousand 465.7 km of one-way rail, 977,64 km of track is electrified. With regard to the density of the rail network in the Republic of Croatia, the EU average exceeds 62km per 100,000 inhabitants, while the EU average is 45km per 100,000 inhabitants. Until we can boast about the coverage of the two-way track in Croatia, it's only 9% while 36% of the total network is electrified. We know that the war has further affected the quality and the construction and maintenance of the railway in Croatia and I believe that the modernisation of the rolling stock with the planned... railways will be vital to strengthening the competitiveness of rail transport compared to other modes of transport. And I believe that just signing this agreement will provide for additional resources to be realised. The second priority under this agreement is to improve the internal navigation system in the Republic of Croatia. The aim of this priority is to improve and restore the internal navigation system in Croatia by making it more attractive and competitive compared to other modes of transport. We know that in the Republic of Croatia the total length of the inland waterways is 804.1 km from which the Danube length is 137.5 km, Sava length 447.7 km, Drava 198.06 km, Kupa 5.9 km and Una 11 km. And the river ports within the borders of the Republic of Croatia are, meaning the largest Osijek, Sisak, Slavonski Brod and Vukovar. As part of the IPA programme, only project preparation and implementation through structural funds are foreseen. The planned operations planned to implement this project are the reconstruction of the port of Vukovar, the southern berth of Osijek port, the terminal for dangerous cargo Slavonski Brod, the masterplan for the new port in Sisak. In addition, the implementation of these IPA actions of this operational programme, the operational programme for transport is responsible for monitoring progress in the implementation of the operational programme, consisting of representatives of the above-mentioned operational structures, the European Commission and the delegations of the European Union to the Republic of Croatia, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Central State Office for the Development of the Strategy and the coordination of European Union funds, representatives of civil society, regional and local self-government and socio-economic partners. I believe that the signing of this agreement will speed up the completion of the railway station in the town of Karlovac and we believe that this agreement will provide 96.7m euros in assistance in the rapid development of rail transport and in the arrangement of waterways and ports in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. I therefore support the signing of this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64989	Thank you very much, colleague. Secretary of State. There's no more charges, so the Secretary of State's inference. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64990	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for all your comments and comments. There were not many of them, and I'm sorry that there are no more colleagues to discuss this issue because I think this is the right place to discuss some of these topics. One answer to Mr. Korakevic. Yes, you're right, the new signing of a contract that changes the situation from month to month helps us to delay the deadlines we have, but to finally meet them and catch all the deadlines. Here's the last thing I'm telling you and here in front of you is that 36% of the tender has been announced in the area of traffic, so the amount has been increased by the 10th month, and the agreed rate of funds has already jumped to 17% right after signing a signalling contract at the Zagreb station. Also, since it's big projects, every signing of a new contract dramatically increases the contract rate and I think the next time we see each other, we're going to talk about a high level of bargaining. As for the commentary on the institutional structure, yes, thank you very much. True, behind this structure there are many valuable people to be commended and who work hard. And, of course, many more people need to be introduced into the structure in view of the amount of work behind the EU funds. Someone who doesn't know it from the inside is hard to explain. We certainly need support and certainly the Government is doing this to its decisions and obligations in front of the ministries, i.e. bodies that participate in the employment and that these people because these people have something to do, there is work to do. And as for Mr Grubisic's remarks on the map, just to say that we are bringing amendments to the agreement here, so the cards are from an original operational programme that has not changed in agreement with the European Commission. If we had gone to do this we probably wouldn't have stood here today and asked for confirmation of this law on the validation and signing of the agreement because it would probably have been much longer, so I think given the situation that it is more acceptable to simply adopt such a situation and these operational programmes as they are defined because they are important measures, not details in the agreement itself, which, of course, follows from 2007 or 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64991	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mr. Dolentz. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm taking a break up to 15 hours, and we're continuing on the 5th point of the bill, the government-European Commission agreement in the field of environmental protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64992	Fifthly, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Agreement on financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the multiannual operational programme "Transport" to assist the Community in pre-accession assistance instruments under the "regional development" component in Croatia. Please, let's get involved, let's vote. The result? I find that with 101 votes for and 1 abstention, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64993	We'll continue with the afternoon session. Now we're at point 5. - Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme "Protection of the Environment" to assist the Community in pre-accession assistance instruments under the "regional development" component in Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No.658 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by means of an urgent procedure. In accordance with Rule 159, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Hrvoje Dolenc State Secretary of the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of European Union Funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64994	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Not in large numbers, but a few of the information that I need to share with you on this proposal for a law confirming a financial agreement for a multi-annual operational environmental protection programme under the IPA programme. Once again, a few historical information, the first agreement to finance these projects in this area of environmental protection, was concluded in November 2008, for the 2007-2009 budgetary period. This is important since these confirmed financial agreements have entered into a new period of negotiations and we have conducted this year and agreed on a new financial agreement, i.e. amendments to the Financial Agreement, adding two additional years of the financial year to it, and signing a financial agreement for the period 2007-2011 in the field of environmental protection. A few financial information, this programme is also worth such as the one in the area of turnover of 833.9 million kuna for a five-year budget period or 113.7 million euros, IPA provides 708.8 million kuna, 96.7m euros, while through the state budget, the budget of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, and units, local regional self-government or their municipal company provides an amount of 125.1m kuna or 17m euros for co-financing. So, in other words, two new additional years of alllocations bring this financial agreement to projects in this area, a new 43.2m euros from IPA funds, or from EU budget funds or 316.7m kuna. It is only important to say that projects are funded in this operational programme and important for the standard of citizens and this modernisation in infrastructure and waste management and modernisation in the water supply and disposal system, but these funds are enough for several projects that we can finance from IPA. In particular, two large areas of environmental protection, waste management and four major water supply and sewage projects, and these projects are prepared for much greater opportunities and much more investment from structural funds. And finally, the emergency procedure is proposed for the reason that the financial agreement is already signed, so we don't have much to change, but another important thing is that it doesn't allow the payment of the advance funds for these two years and an additional impulse to accelerate the projects and implement this operational programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64995	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I open the debate, first of all the clubs, on behalf of the HNSH Club, the distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64996	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike the previous point when we discussed the confirmation of the contract and about the operational programme Transport, and the problems that are present in preparation for the use of the funds under the Transport Operational Programme, the situation here is also bad, namely, by September 30, we should have agreed 50% of the 53.5m euros. We made a 1% deal. In other words, we missed the opportunity and the possibility to negotiate 26m euros, we missed. We were supposed to announce tenders by September 30th worth 80% of the amount, we published 54%. Or we missed the opportunity to announce tenders for the 14m-euro circus. For the use of these resources in environmental protection it is also evident that we have not prepared ourselves, it is also evident that we are not effective, with almost certain that unlike the operational programme Transport where it was missed in 2007, 2009, something quality to do as... in terms of the preparation of the necessary documentation for these projects, something has happened which is good, and it has changed the management of HZ Infrastructure, so they have managed to catch something that is good and it is a changed management in HZ infrastructure, and they have managed to catch that lag and have managed to create one dynamic that gives some hope that the planned funds in IPA will be used and related to the operational transport programme. Moreover, there is also one indication that in the Structural and Cohesion Funds the projects envisaged through the Operational Programme "Transport" will catch one dynamic possible effective dynamics of the implementation of these projects. But unlike the operational program "Transport" here, it's almost certainly not going to happen because among other things we have one reason. Namely, since all operational programmes have their own management structure in the operational environmental protection programme divided into two areas, one is waste management and the other areas of waste management water are responsible for the Energy Efficiency Fund and for Croatian water. We have one case that we at this point and we can't exactly report a single project for environmental protection because it's a signer in Remetic. The Director of the Energy Efficiency Fund is in Remetic. The government of the Republic of Croatia has finally made this necessary shift and I hope that the new director will manage to catch or catch the ends. The question of whether these threads exist in terms of creating the possibility of using these funds, but it is almost certain that it needs infrastructure within the Environment Fund, within the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which was necessary and necessary to ensure, and in order to be more effective in preparing projects, it does not exist. And if it does not exist, it is that the documentation that we send to the European Union for prior approval is not an adequate level of quality to ensure rapid processing and quality bargaining procedures and therefore we have a high degree of rejected documentation. In contrast to the operational transport programme, this is about large infrastructure projects, infrastructure projects that require a rather serious time scale and in terms of the preparation of documentation, quality documentation preparation, they require a very high quality dynamic announcement of the competition. And if we consider that rule M+3, then it's really questionable, not that it's questionable, but it's almost certain that these funds will not be fully used, it's almost certain. And the third problem when we talk about the waste that needs to be said clearly and loudly is imposed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Namely, within the framework of the PHARE 2600 programme, options were identified or given primarily for the pee and county centre in Zadar, possible technologies were given. Technology that ultimately gives a clear dimension to how many citizens will pay for waste management technologies. However, our ministry has taken the view that it is MBO technology, mechanical-biological for all, for all dumps has been unified. This attitude has led to changes in projects, and projects must again be sent to the European Commission for approval. The question is whether the European Commission will approve, and almost certainly not, because the European Commission has no reason to approve the technology that ultimately collects such a type of service to citizens when there are far more efficient technologies. What is the motive and why and why the Ministry of Environmental Protection stands firm behind this unified technology is probably known to them. But the fact that this technology slowed down projects, the fact is that slowed projects in both Zadar and Split and Istria have slowed down projects. In the cohesion fund, through the cohesion fund, we are given the opportunity to speak up in 2012, 2013. 363 million. Through the European Regional Development Fund, we are talking about an environment of 286144 million. If we can't use 53 million in three years, we're still at 1%, so what are we gonna do in 2012, 2013. Zero. We at the Croatian People's Party Club want to reiterate the need for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide personnel with the necessary competences to work to prepare the use of European funds, because these people who are doing this now are giving recognition of what they have done in the context of the opportunities they have received because they have no possibility of making a political decision. For every decision, they have to ask someone. The question of whether or not they can catch someone at the moment when they have to ask him, and what kind of answer they get, and obviously bad if we have a total execution like this. We need to ensure that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must ensure an effective system in methodological work to prepare the projects because the level of projects returned is too great for us. An effective and effective partnership with a regional level must be ensured. Regional levels are nowhere to be found. If there is, then there's only because I'm good with it and that minister, because the minister from my neighborhood is certainly not the principle of sound logic. The fact that the data on project preparation seems to be a state secret. I ask you colleagues and colleagues who can tell me or who can give me information on how many projects we have prepared? We in the Committee on Regional Development cannot get that information from our respective ministry. Why is it a state secret? For what? The fact is that our operational programmes are centralised, and the fact that in a questionable way, they included the needs and development potentials of our regions in question. The fact that our counties, cities, municipalities are not allowed to use their own knowledge and their own ideas the development opportunities provided to them by the European funds. And finally, these people who run these and pre-accession funds, these people who are working to prepare structural funds projects, we need to enable them to do so. They need to be able to do it effectively. So there's no reason not to hire new people, there's no reason for these people to stimulate, because money exists, there are funds. In the end, the European Commission and other countries, when they came into such situations, were in such situations, approved the funds through technical assistance precisely to stimulate such people and to enable such people to do the job for which they were given and the obligation. We at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement will support this bill, but at the same time we warn of the necessary seriousness, to take advantage of the possibility given to us because it is exclusively up to us how and in what way and in which value and in which dimension we will take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64997	Thank you. We have an individual one debate, it is the distinguished representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go. Excuse me, one correction to an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Ana Lovrin. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64998	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So counterpart Koracevic incorrectly said that no programme or project can be submitted to the Environmental Protection Fund for the reason that the head of that fund is temporarily deprived of liberty and under investigation. So it's just not true. The Environmental Protection Fund shall be appointed as acting official, the Fund shall conduct its business in order, as well as in any regulated state where the system must function regardless of the current prevention of a particular person. It's just a question of whether these programs and these projects have to be submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u64999	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65000	So very briefly, Article 209, I said very clearly to my colleagues that we had one formal reason and that we have no signatories, because he's a signer in Remetinco. Namely the paperwork that goes. ... No, no, the signer was just one. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65001	Your Honor, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Correction. ... It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think you should abuse it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on, let's go with the individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65002	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is a proposal for a Law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending a financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational environmental protection programme for community assistance from pre-accession assistance instruments under the regional development component in Croatia with the final draft of the law. The aim of the environmental protection operational programme is to invest in projects aimed at preserving the environment through projects to develop waste management infrastructure, and to improve water supply and waste water management systems. This provides assistance to the Republic of Croatia in fulfilling its obligations to implement the legal gain of the European Union in the field of environmental protection that regulates waste treatment and disposal, drinking water supply, collection, treatment, and wastewater discharge, as well as the development of administrative and management capabilities of institutions implementing operational environmental protection programmes. Three priority axes are defined in the operational environmental protection programme, I will mention in my presentation two. The first is the development of waste management infrastructure for the establishment of a complete waste management system in the Republic of Croatia, and the second is the protection of the water resources of Croatia through the improvement of the water supply system and the integrated waste water management system. It is important to note that the operational programme for environmental protection is managed by the following operational structure, headed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, as the body responsible for the operational programme, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy as the body responsible for the priority measure, is responsible for all measures under priority axis two, the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency is the implementing body for all measures under the priority axis one development of waste management infrastructure. Croatian waters are an implementing body through the exercise of duties for all measures within the priority axis of two water protections, water resources of the Republic of Croatia, improvement of the water supply system and the overall waste water management system. The Central Agency for the financing and negotiation of European Union programmes and projects is an implementing body which performs tasks for actions under priority axis three and sectoral surveillance for the operational environmental protection programme responsible for monitoring progress in the implementation of the operational programme, consisting of representatives of the operational structure of the European Commission and of the European Commission delegation in the Republic of Croatia, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Central State Office for Development Strategy and the coordination of EU funds, representatives of civil society, regional and local self-government, and socio-economic partners. The projects, it is important to note that end-users of the projects are public-owned utility companies, county-run waste management centres and utility companies in charge of water supply. The projects selected by the operational structure from the indicative lists notified to the European Commission and so far have been approved by the Commission: the development of waste management infrastructure for the establishment of a complete waste management system in the Republic of Croatia. There are two big projects. The first is the Regional Waste Management Centre, Kastijun. The project aims to introduce a sustainable and integrated waste management system in Istria County. The estimated total project amounts to 72 million 416 thousand 291 euros. The IPA project includes a project phase involving the construction of a dump, the construction of a recycling yard, wastewater treatment plant, the collection system for water, the system for removing the construction of gas treatment devices, the supply of waste transport equipment, technical assistance, promotional measures and the control of works. The agreed value, I said, is about 76m euros. Another major project is the Regional Centre for Waste Management Mariscina. The aim of the project is to introduce a sustainable and integrated waste management system in the Primorje-Gorski County, which includes about 306,000 equivalent inhabitants. The estimated value of all phases of the project is 96 million 457 thousand 484 euros. Another priority option is the protection of Croatia's water and water resources through improvement of the water supply system and an integrated waste water management system. Here I will mention 4 projects: a water supply and disposal system with a wastewater treatment device Slavonski Broda. The next project is the management of a water supply and sewer system with a wastewater treatment device for the city of Drniš. The third, these two projects, therefore, cover all needs for wastewater disposal in these 2 cities. One of the problems that arises in most local and regional self-government units is in preparation for project candidateing. Most often fewer units of local self-government do not have quality own personnel to prepare and write projects, rarely on the market appear different companies that are registered to prepare projects, and their quality and qualifications are ultimately very questionable. I believe that until the opening of new pre-accession and cohesion funds, this situation will improve, that most local self-government units will prepare projects for running and that the overall situation or images of the Republic of Croatia through these operational programmes will be much better and much better. I am giving full support to the signing of this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65003	Thank you. Finally, Secretary of State. The esteemed Hives of the Dolen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, ladies and gentlemen, a few information for the end. Many of the information is listed in the report for the first half of the year. So, in the meantime, progress continues to be made and projects are still under way. So we can say this: 52% of the amount in this operational program was launched and by the start of these competitions, 16% is already agreed. What's important is just saying that, I think I missed maybe the first time to say, so these are the criteria that are set in terms of getting the way to getting the so-called. Without... control of EU delegations in Croatia. Therefore, Croatia itself conducts the tender and approves the tender documentation, i.e. all steps in the negotiation process. This does not mean that, for now, the use of funds is still at stake because there is another rule to be used because this arrangement still comes and will make use of most of all the funds in these programmes. Of course, we don't expect any slowdown because if it slows down then we won't be on that path. As for one important cooperation, there is a lot of cooperation in this specific programme with regional units, local units and municipal companies. And what my message from this place is that there must be really very high cooperation. And I support everyone who supports co-operation between the central and local authorities, especially on these projects that are primarily beneficial to local units. That's not the case sometimes. There is some kind of animosity that unnecessarily extends the procedure and conducts the competitions both in the end and in the implementation of the projects themselves. This should really be avoided and I think that these projects are also of benefit to all of us, and that will be particularly interesting in structural funds when we have a lot more projects and when this cooperation will be much, much stronger. And in that sense, everyone needs to go out more to meet each other. Unfortunately, this doesn't happen some time, and it's one of the problems we have to deal with. And finally, thank you to everyone who supports this agreement and I think it's really important that we support it and support its implementation. And we're open as a system of criticism and help. And I think we can fix it with these steps and, of course, make sure we use these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65005	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65006	Sixthly, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Agreement on financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the multiannual operational programme "Protectation of the Environment" to assist the Community in pre-accession assistance instruments under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia. Please let us vote. The result? Unanimity with 101 votes for the bill has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65007	We move to point 6, that is - Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of State Lawyers, second reading, P.Z. No. 626 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by Agent Zdravko Ronko. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Damir Kontrec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65008	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. The final proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys is before you, establishing the county and municipal state attorney's offices, their areas and their seats in which they will operate. According to the now applicable Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, 55 municipal state-owned lawyers and 21 county state-owned attorneys have been established. Given the rationalisation of the network of county and commercial courts and law adopted in the Assembly a few weeks ago, we now have 15 county courts and 7 commercial courts, so it was necessary to approach the rationalisation of the network of state attorneys in order to bring it into line with the network of county courts. This Final Proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of State Laws differs from the proposal which was in the first reading. As a consequence, objections were adopted, i.e. proposals concerning the merger of the County State Attorney's Office in Zlatar or Koprivnica. It is in this proposal that the County State Attorney's Office in Zlatar joins with the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb and the County's State's Attorney's Office in Koprivnica with the County's State's Attorney's Office in Varazdin. The rationalisation of the network of county state attorneys will also take place as a rationalisation of the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia by 31 December 2019, and in accordance with the decision on the dynamics of merger of state attorneys and ensuring the necessary conditions for work, technical equipment, ensuring spatial conditions for the work of state attorneys.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65009	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. It's the club's turn first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65010	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State Lawyers as one of the further measures in the strategy of judicial reform and action plan with the strategy that envisioned the rationalisation of the network of courts and state attorneys as one of the strategic measures of judicial reform. In fact, we often hear when we also talked about the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, which reduced the number of municipal and county and commercial courts, and then we had one longer period of time, along with these laws as well as this proposal, as a transitional period in which a real merger would be carried out. We have often heard that we pass laws that are only on paper and that change nothing but boards on the facade and at the entrance of the court. Anyone with any knowledge of the judiciary knows that this is simply not true and that the purpose of rationalization is precisely in this administrative merger. The merger of courts is not only a state’s attorney’s office nor is ultimately the sole purpose, it is one but not the most important savings on material assets or employees. So, the first rate of rationalisation is the possibility of a better organisation of trial, judicial affairs and state-of-law affairs. First of all, the possibility of specialising both judges and state lawyers, thus more effectively professional, faster and more independent trial or the conduct of state attorneys. As far as Croatia is concerned, this rationalisation started immediately after the strategy was adopted, some of them were implemented as a pilot of projects that proved inefficient and not good, it was about the project of joining criminal courts with the municipality, it was a European project that proved not to be good, and then rationalisation took place according to a new principle, so the merger of courts of the same kind. A better organisation is made possible because, in one area, it is impossible to predict a multi-annual inflow of cases, given the provisions of the judges, the European provisions on judges, their inability to deploy and relocate, as well as to facilitate this fluctuation in relation to state lawyers. This rationalisation, i.e. the merger of courts into larger and state attorneys into major units, has proved to be extremely good, extremely effective and what we expect from the ministry alone, and I have always seen that the new strategy has been drawn, among other things, and the analysis of the effects of rationalisation to see in the end whether we have all the purposes and objectives that have led us to the rationalisation and the merger of courts whether they are and that we have the exact indicators that have really led to a faster and more effective settlement of court cases. So, as regards this Law that is before us today, it follows the Law on Areas and Courts, we also had one law that we had changed the areas and seats of the State's attorneys in terms of municipal state attorneys, so after the reduction of the number of municipal courts from 108 to 67, it was followed by a reduction in the number of state attorneys then from 81 municipal state attorneys that were established by law but had never actually worked more than 61 state's attorneys, then by law the number of municipal state attorneys was reduced to 55. This law, which is before us, proposes to reduce the number of county state attorneys from 21 legal, but in fact 20 county attorneys who worked at 15. Which makes the number equal to the number of county courts, which means 15 county attorneys for 15 county courts and 7 commercial courts. This Law also addresses matters of jurisdiction of state attorneys in respect of commercial courts, which is particularly important in this light to address the reduction of the number of commercial courts where a commercial court will actually extend to the area in some cases, to the area of two county courts, and then it is important to resolve which state attorney's office will be in that case competent. Here, as I have said since 2008, laws on the merger of courts have started to be passed, first municipal and then countyal, and consequently the laws on areas and offices of the State's attorneys, thus reducing the number of municipal state attorneys first and now proposing to reduce the number of county state attorneys. I also see and read from the 2009 State Attorney's report that the state's attorney himself points to the need to streamline the network because of better organisation of work and, above all, because of better equipment for the purpose of the new Criminal Procedure Act, by way of a degree of 1.9.2011, the new Law on Criminal Procedure against all criminal offences will require additional funds and equipment for the State's Attorney's Office, in which sense we expect this merger. On the basis of the fact that then a united state attorney's office can be better equipped and better equipped for all the jobs that the State's Attorney's office is waiting for. And therefore, the state's attorney is appealing in this case to the ministry that, apart from this administrative merger, there is a real physical merger for a more effective and efficient organisation of work. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65011	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65012	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since this law follows the provisions of the Law on County and Commercial Courts, which we have recently adopted, according to which a total of 15 county courts and 7 commercial courts were established, the Proposer proposes areas and seats of county state attorneys in accordance with the areas and headquarters of county courts as well as areas and seats of municipal state courts. According to this proposal, 15 county state attorneys and 55 municipal state lawyers are established. In my further discussion, I must thank the motionor and personally Mr. Secretary for the positive shifts that took place in this final draft of the law. In fact, it is more logical and more normal to resolve the status of Zagorje and Koprivnica. But in this bill of law, I must express my protest and my regret for losing the county attorney's seat in my Krapina-Zagoria County. Namely, it is clear to everyone what it means to have a seat of the court, of the attorney's office, of the police or of any other state institution in his town in his county. My Zagorje unfortunately loses its seats from month to month, as we have already said to the county court, here is the state's attorney's office today, and I think it'll be my turn and the police. When it is added to this by weak or no investment of state resources in transport infrastructure, then it is no wonder that my and similar counties do not have the same chances of developing an economy that is the starting point of all, the standard of citizens, health, education, immigration or the emigration of the population, and ultimately general satisfaction or dissatisfaction of the population. Zagorje and Zagorje do not accept and seek a fair and well-deserved treatment. Croatia's Zagorje has resources in which it invests as much as possible, but without fair support from the state it cannot be in an equal game of development and progress. In that sense, we are experiencing a shift in the headquarters of the county attorney's office. And since this law is a follower of the Law on County Courts of the HNS and HSU Clubs will be kept against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65013	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Milivo Škvorc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65014	Your Honor, Vice President. A colleague of Hursa made several incorrect allegations. I understand first I don't think it's a county on behalf of which she only spoke hers but is essentially ours. But the incorrect assumption is that in Krapina-Zagorje County she thought the state was investing almost nothing in the infrastructure. It's just not true, but I think we have to be satisfied. The fact that some projects may have slowed down as far as road structures are concerned, that may be true. But I think the government is taking care of the Krapina-Zagorian County and will continue that way. And otherwise you like to say everything that's wrong, I think it was that denominator but I can't accept it as a representative from Krapina-Zagorian County.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65015	Thank you. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65016	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am at the very beginning of my presentation... of course we have before us a proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State's Attorney General who should be supported. Namely, this law regulates three basic and essential things that should be absolutely apostrophe and emphasized at first. So the first of them is the establishment of the county and municipal state attorney's offices, and then their areas are determined, and the third are determined seats in which both county and municipal state's attorneys will act. This law should be supported because it actually follows the logic of the rationalisation of county and commercial courts, i.e. solutions and the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, which are determined by a total of 15 county courts and 7 commercial courts. Therefore, the priority is to further streamline the network of state attorneys, which would be proposedly networked with a network of county courts in the Republic of Croatia. However, it should also be pointed out that the law in question is based not only on the basis of the scheme, but also on the analysis of the following criteria which are relevant for the determination of both the number and the seats of the state's attorneys and I think that should be particularly highlighted, and that is also the particular reason for this law. And most importantly, in any case, these criteria are an analysis of the number of objects, so the number of objects. Also a very important criterion of the annual inflow of cases and of course the number of state lawyers and their deputies. Because only by analysing and applying these criteria in relation to the proposed network can it come. I am convinced that there will be rationalisation in every sense by the state's attorneys themselves regardless of the county or municipal state's attorneys. Also, according to the proposal itself, it is to stress that a total is being established, so we will now have a total of 15 county lawyers and 55 municipal state lawyers. It is important to point out from the other provisions that the Ministry of Justice will provide for all county state attorneys work space and technically equip the county state attorneys at their centres, noting that the Minister of Justice will determine by means of a decision that the conditions are secured and when conditions for the work of the county and state attorneys, which were created by the merger at its headquarters, are ensured. And of course, not to repeat ourselves, this is a second reading, all that argument and everything that went into favor with this law and in the first reading comes to the fullness of this second reading, but whenever we talk about the state's attorneys and the rationalization of the network and the number of state attorneys, we think that their future work should certainly be seen or seen in the light of the adopted Law on Criminal Procedure, therefore, of the CAP, which will, therefore, fully live on September 1st of the following year when they will apply to the overall work of all state attorneys. Therefore, to support all those efforts which will in the coming year, therefore not only rationalise the network of county and municipal state attorneys but also provide the means for their work, for their equipment, that it will necessarily have to be staffed in order to fully apply the new Criminal Procedure Act in its fullness. Accordingly, I believe that this law should also be supported in this respect by its full support and, of course, in the hope and faith that, with those laws that we have already passed, which relate to the purely judicial authority, this law therefore completes one of those judicial images in terms of the network of judicial institutions, both purely judicial and state-level lawyers. In that sense, full of support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65017	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65018	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Tomljanovic, I agree with you in support of the final proposal for a law on the areas and headquarters of the state's attorneys and especially in that segment in which you have pointed out that the government and the State's attorneys will provide jobs in the headquarters of the state's attorneys, which are now being joined by this final proposal of the law. I want to give you an example from practice. I come from Brod-Posavina County and the town of Slavonski Brod in which, according to the final proposal, the law is the headquarters of the County State's Attorney's Office, which connects the Požega State Attorney's Office. In the report we had the opportunity to consider here this month, it was said that in the 2009 report on the work of state lawyers. For a year, it was said that, apart from Zlatar and Varazdin, there were no assumptions and such good work for work, with it standing in brackets and there was no chance that it would be settled. I told the state's attorney then, and I'll tell you the same thing, since then, and the report was written in 2010 in the town of Slavonski Brod, the government has cleared the area for the county state's attorney's office because another state institution has moved out of that space and that space, a very quality space the government has assigned to use the county state's attorney. Therefore, in favour of the credibility of the Croatian Government that this rationalisation and harmonisation of the headquarters of the county courts and the headquarters of the county state's attorneys will be equally so that the Government will continue to work according to the law within the deadline of 2019 that all activities on this will be completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65019	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65020	So if I was able to understand you well, dear colleagues, and I think I am, your remark in terms of replication to my debate was whether in all specific cases, and in your example, in practice, they actually respected these criteria that we find in the light of the law itself. I say they are. I said the criteria. And you know, when it comes to rationalising the network of anything, and we've had the opportunity to listen to debates on areas and courts' seats and both county and municipal, all of us who come from certain environments actually defend all the forces of those positions that necessarily lead to the conclusion that in this environment there must be a seat and that institution. However, this is very difficult to achieve in terms of rationalisation. There will always be certain environments that, in this sense, will be considered, under quotes, let's say abolished. But I will say that this is not about the abolition of institutions but about the merger and implementation of the rationalisation of the network of county attorneys and courts should actually look at the Republic of Croatia as a whole and why we are actually expecting results from all these institutions. If we want every middle, every middle of it to be the headquarters of these institutions, I don't think we're going to be able to move what's said from the beginning, or we won't even be able to access the rationalization of the network of county and municipal state attorneys. So the criteria are there, they are who they are, I said the criteria, so the number of cases, the number of county attorneys. It is not about the abolition of institutions but about the merger, and all in terms of better functioning of the judicial system, so when the system of county courts and systems and the headquarters of county state attorneys is networked. And I'll be honest with you at the very end, when you think about the territory of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the number of counties, perhaps in due course we'll have a chance to discuss some other legal proposals of this type, which will still be with a smaller number of seats of certain states...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65021	Thank you very much. Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65022	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I answered that once again, as I did in the first reading of this legislative proposal, so I would again express my dissatisfaction with the fact that, according to this legislative proposal, I would propose the accession of the County State's Attorney's Office in Chakovec to the County State's Attorney's Office in Varazdin. However, since the essence of this proposed rationalisation of the network of state attorneys represents its alignment with the network of county courts, this development of events in particular in the County of Međimurje was in fact determined by the adoption of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts under which the Municipal Court in Prelog was attached to the Municipal Court in Čakovec. It was then that an argument was actually created to abolish the County Court because there was really no justification for the existence of the County Court for only one Municipal Court. Following this abolition of the County Court, this abolition of the County State Attorney's Office, which I must remind the chief state attorney recently said in this Assembly on the work of the State's attorneys in the previous year for the Međimurje State Attorney's Office a series of commendations, pointed out it as actually an example of real efficiency. However, it is obvious that effective and professional work is too weak a reason for the survival of state institutions. What I would like to say to this occasion and what I am particularly concerned about is that under the cover of this rationalization of the public administration, in fact, Međimurje literally devasts and provinces, because for courts and lawyers it will go through Drava in Varazdin and other state institutions and other public services, and it is particularly not good for the local environment especially for the development of its economy. I must say just as my colleague Hursa said in her debate on the Zagorje case, that the local government has indeed one maternal relationship with Međimurje and a bright example of this is that the state's attorney's office, before that and courts, is the government's catalog of investment projects that the government adopted in September of this year, in which there is no specific project intended for the County of Međimurje. So in the catalogue of investments of 13 billion euros, no project for međimurje is planned. Meanwhile, Međimurje is losing more and more railway ties with Zagreb, although I must say, Croatia had its first relationship with Europe over the railway that went right through Međimurje. I wonder if that's why the Minister of Transport can't even come to Međimurje after a series of calls he received from the current county government. I'm afraid all of this is on the trail of Croatian perception only to Drava, not Mura. And I will conclude that this proposal for rationalisation, the network of the State's attorneys, is not in my opinion the right measure of rationalisation, but represents an additional centralisation and such a pre-centralised state, which will inevitably have consequences for the further lagging of most Croatian counties compared to its metropolis and, of course, further increasing the differences that are already really huge. This government simply doesn't want to be aware of the fact that every system and especially a complex system like the state, is as strong as its weakest link is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65023	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65024	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to correct the incorrect quote, although I don't think it's a good thing that we're breaking up if we're from the same county in such important things, but I have to say, and I'm going to say again that it's not about abolishing, it's about the merger, it's about rationalization compared to the precisely developed criteria. So let's respect that difference. What we need to know is the people of Međimurje that there will continue to be office days in Čakovec, that there will be no layoffs and that the citizens will be able to do the same as before. And it is incorrect and I reject what you colleagues have said that someone avoids coming to Međimurje, it is simply not true, let's not say so, let's not use this pay phone for such qualifications it is true that the arrival and presidents of the Government in Međimurje County and some ministers are agreed, but what you said lastly, excuse yourselves, use the HDZ language which I personally appreciate, because it is obvious that this is how you remember it, it is true that Croatia is as strong as its smallest secession is. So please be correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65025	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate, it's up to the distinguished representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65026	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyerries, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed as a continuation of activities to reform the judicial system, harmonising the rationalisation of state lawyers, we are bringing a rationalisation of the network of courts, particularly of county courts. I would like to remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has yet to conclude in 2007 that the process of rationalising the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia has been launched, and this proposal for the rationalisation of state attorneys is also being tabled. All these activities are judicial reform procedures as a condition for adapting our legislation and achieving the objectives towards entering the European Union. The criteria managed by the applicant in the preparation of this Act were an analysis of the number of cases, the annual inflow of cases, the number of state lawyers and deputy state attorneys in the county state's attorneys. As the new law on areas and seats of courts established 15 county courts has thus far established 15 county attorneys instead of 21 county attorneys. They shall establish their fields of action and determine the seats in which they will operate. I am pleased that the applicant has accepted some of the proposals tabled in the debate which differs from the draft law. On the basis of this, I would like to point out that I will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers, which will be implemented by the end of 2019 in accordance with the necessary conditions for work, technical equipment, as well as the provision of spatial and other conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65027	Thank you. And now it's your turn as the last in an individual debate, the esteemed representative of Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65028	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. So here we are in front of us in the second reading The final draft law on the areas and seats of the State's attorneys, whose adoption I will support and absolutely support. It is an opportunity and I would like to emphasise that the adoption of this Law as well as a series of other laws in the area of justice that we have recently passed. The result of a reform of the judicial system that began in January 2006 by adopting the Justice Reform Strategy with the 2008 Action Plan and was re-audited in May this year, and we heard, that is, here we have today and placed it on the agenda. We also have before us a new Strategy which will therefore apply to the period 2011 to 2015. I think there is no doubt that, from the beginning of the reform of the judiciary, much progress has been made to this day, above all, in creating a legislative and institutional framework for an independent, impartial, professional and effective judiciary, which ultimately contributes to the rule of law and the legal security of citizens, and that is precisely what the quality and speed of judicial protection for citizens is most important. Of course, consistent implementation of the reform is also important for the closure of Chapter 23. The judiciary and fundamental rights of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. As regards the proposed rationalisation of the network of state attorneys, it is, as has been stated, being the result of the rationalisation of the network of courts which, among other things, aimed at strengthening and aimed at strengthening the efficiency of the judiciary. Thus, at the end of last month, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, which established municipal, county, commercial and administrative courts and established their headquarters and area of jurisdiction. The law established a total of 15 county and 7 commercial courts, and 67 municipal courts. In fact, these 67 municipal courts have been established by a new law since July 2008 and I think we can conclude that the positive effects and rationalisation of municipal courts have been seen so far. As the rationalisation of the network of courts was carried out according to precisely established criteria where the burden of individual courts was primarily taken into account, the number of cases received during the year and the number of judges needed to resolve them but also, for example, the geographical position of the courts. Thus, even when rationalising the number of state attorneys proposed by this law, a number of circumstances were taken into account. First of all, an analysis of the annual inflow and the number of cases and the number of state attorneys and deputy state attorneys in the county's state's attorneys has been made. Also, as I mentioned earlier, it was considered that the establishment, or network of courts, was followed in determining the area of municipal and county attorneys. So, according to these criteria, it is proposed to establish 15 county state-owned attorneys, and we already have 55 municipal state-owned lawyers who will now act under the jurisdiction of a particular county state-level attorney's office. As for courts in line with merger dynamics, the rationalisation of the network of state attorneys is foreseen until 31 December 2019. So here's briefly for these reasons, I'm going to support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65029	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65030	Seven, Final Proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of State Attorneys, Second Reading. The amendment was submitted by Agent Zdravko Ronko. I ask Secretary of State Tatjana Vučetic to be shown about the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Proposer cannot accept the amendment for a simple reason because this Assembly adopted the Law on the Areas and Seats of the Courts to which it has attached, or has joined the County Court in Požega County Court in Slavonski Brod. So then the County State Attorney's Office in Požega can't be competent either, that is, for the area of the County Court in Požega which is not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65032	Comrade Ronko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65033	Yes, I have submitted the amendment, here's a little Don Quijotovski, so let me say that before this parliamentary election before 2000, when it felt slowly the smell of change to go to the establishment of county courts and county attorneys. Now, when we feel a little more of that breath of spring again here we're going to abolish certain courts and that's good, I agree with that. However, it is not clear to me why the suspension does not go to the abolition of these newly-compromised courts for which there is no basis and no reason to be already going to the suspension of the County Court and the County Attorney's Office in Pozega with all that history, tradition, with that of its infrastructure from spatial to penalty with all those functional organisational advantages it has. Now we have one nonsens. Here, if that were the case, it would mean that 30 judges and state lawyers, along with their staff from Požega, will travel to Slavonski Brod every day, will pay their way to bring in detainees and defendants from Požega prison to Slavonski Brod. I don't think that makes any sense, and what you're saying is there's no basis because the network of these state's attorneys is set up by the Law on County Courts, the headquarters of county courts, I think you should have said then and that the law was not passed in accordance with Article. 83. The Constitution. And that's why, believing the MPs wouldn't agree to vote against the Constitution, I'd like to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65034	I suggest manually, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. Please, let's get involved, let's vote. The result? With 83 votes in favour and 31 against, the proposed bill was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65035	We move to point seven - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Explosive Substances, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 664 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the interior ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65036	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before you is the proposal to amend and supplement the Explosive Substances Act with the final bill. There were several reasons to initiate the procedure for proposing amendments and supplementing this Law. I'll just say the most important ones. In fact, the social defender for children has repeatedly pointed to the problem of child injury when using pyrotechnic means, so amendments and additions to laws are proposed which, with regard to the possibility of implementing pyrotechnic means, wish to contribute to greater safety of the use of pyrotechnics. This proposal further determines the concepts. It is more precisely defined to whom it can sell explosive substances, it is prescribed that the pyrotechnic means of certain classes of second, third, T1 and P1 can only be sold to persons over the age of 18 and that, during the period from 15 December to 1 January, the area of disposal of the remaining explosive substances is regulated after the legal person or craftsman has ceased to carry out the activity for any reason, the method of withdrawal of the authorisation for the production, i.e. the transport of explosive substances, if the legal person or craftsman no longer fulfils the prescribed conditions and, in order to contribute to the even greater safety of the use of pyrotechnic means, is proposed and the ban on the sale of pyrotechnic assets of the first class in mobile stores. The possibility remains to sell the first class pyrotechnics in all solid facilities, shops, kiosks and the possibility of selling the second, third, T1 and P1 pyrotechnic assets in the premises that received the approval of the Ministry of Interior and met the regulatory conditions. We believe that the adoption of such a law will further raise the level of safety for children who most often and suffer from the use of pyrotechnics in an unsuitable way, that the rise and general security will be more clearly defined by some concepts and clearer obligations of the owners of companies that import products and sell pyrotechnics, and we will certainly continue to change this law in a positive trend which we have back several years that Christmas and New Year's holidays are becoming more peaceful, more secure and that they run in one atmosphere positively without those difficult consequences that have been known to occur in previous years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65037	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. At the very beginning, I will say that the HNS Club, HSU, will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Explosive Substances Act. According to the applicable law, Class 2 pyrotechnics may be sold to persons over 16 years of age and Class Three pyrotechnic assets to persons over 18 years of age. According to the applicable law, Class Three pyrotechnics may also be used by persons under the supervision of parents or guardians under the supervision of a person under 18 years of age. These amendments and additions suggest that such an option be abolished. Furthermore, in the application of the applicable law, certain shortcomings and indeterminations in the definition of individual expressions have been observed, especially when defining the concept of a manual storage facility, and this is regulated by this law. It is also prescribed to withdraw approval for the production of explosive substances. The harmonisation of the concepts in the area of fire protection against European standards has also been announced, and it is precisely defined who and whom can sell explosive substances to entities dealing with the traffic of explosive substances. In the law further, the secretary of state mentioned the activities of the Ombudsman for children, Mrs Mile Jelavic, who, on several occasions, sent letters to the Ministry of the Interior, and also her 2009 report in favour of this proposal in the changes. The safety of children represents the task of the first order and we will soon agree on that. I must admit that I am concerned, and I cannot understand why the legislator of the law needed several interventions from the Ombudsman for the children of Ms. Mile Jelavic, and her report here for 2009 in order to find the evident shortcomings of the existing law after a long year in the proposal for an amendment and addition. Only 13 articles amending and supplementing the law were to wait 12 months. Today it is 8.12. and I ask whether this law will come into force by 15.12.? Mr. Secretary of State, I would ask you to answer that, because I don't see any reason why we've been waiting so long for a proposal to supplement and amend this law, because if the amendment and supplementation proposal doesn't come into force until 15.12. we allow the implementation of Article 30 to apply. Who will be responsible for any accidents that will occur between January 15th and January 1st when they are sold pyrotechnic assets? We will support the law from the HNS Club, the HSU, but I hope that the proposed law will come into force when the sale of pyrotechnics begins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65039	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65040	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. This area related to transport and storage, testing, conformity assessment, use, recycling, neutralisation, destruction, handling and control of explosive substances is governed by the Explosive Substances Act. It's good to remind you that they're explosive substances. Explosives are economic explosives, means of initiating explosive substances, pyrotechnics, ammunition, powders, products filled with explosive substances, and raw materials of explosive properties for the production of explosive substances. As stated in the proposal for this law, the Ministry of Interior proposes to amend this law at the initiative of Advocate General Mile Jelavic to amend the Law on Explosive Substances in such a way as to limit the sale and use of pyrotechnic assets to children in order to protect and protect them. The law proposes that the pyrotechnic means of class two, three, and one and P1 can only be sold to persons over the age of 18, ranging from 15 December to 1 January. According to the current law, second class pyrotechnics could be sold to persons over 16 years of age, while third - grade funds could be used with the presence of parents or guardians, including those under 18 years of age. These amendments and additions propose to abolish such opportunities in order to achieve an even greater security of use of pyrotechnic means in these amendments to the law, a ban on the sale of Class One pyrotechnic assets is also proposed in mobile stores, i.e. at the stands, at the markets, at the fairs, or on the street. This is due to an increase in the amount of pyrotechnic assets sold illegally, and evidence of this has also been seized from various illicit pyrotechnic means in mobile shops. In addition, the notion of a manual warehouse is defined in accordance with the provisions of the applicable rules, which prescribe conditions for pyrotechnics stores, and with the way in which the security measures for the storage of explosive substances are implemented. The concept of the transport of explosive substances is also regulated in such a way as not to be considered by transport to be sold to small pyrotechnic means of the first, second, third and third and T1 and P1 classes which pose a low risk of ship equipment for sea rescue purposes used in agriculture and aviation. Under the terms of handling explosive substances, it will not be considered to sell small ammunition and pyrotechnic means of class one. The appointment of responsible persons in other technical trainings shall be given. The law in force requires that the responsible persons in the production of explosive substances may only be persons who have at least the highest professional equipment of the chemical, machinery or mining profession and have passed the expert examination according to the relevant profession. This enables the employment of a person of other technical training. The conditions of passing an expert examination according to the relevant profession shall be deleted because one of the technical references, which shall not be passed by such an examination for one of the technical purposes. It is more specifically defined who and whom may be sold explosive substances, i.e. legal persons and craftsmen who are authorised by the Ministry of Interior and/or the Ministry of Defence for Use. For the production and transport of explosive substances and the production of weapons, the area of disposal of the remaining explosive substances shall be regulated after the legal person or craftsman ceases to operate for any reason. So, the closure of the company, the bankruptcy, the termination of work, and so on. In such a way that the remaining substances are destroyed or sold to another legal person or craftsman who has the approval of the ministry. Provisional storage of explosive substances, e.g. missile defense missiles on the ground except in portable tanks and in buildings that meet the conditions for safe storage of explosive substances. This enables defence action against fighting to take place in more favourable legal frameworks. It has also been done to bring the concepts in the area of fire protection against European standards. It shall be prescribed to withdraw the authorisation for the production, i.e. the transport of explosive substances if the legal person or craftsman no longer fulfils the prescribed conditions. Here, a few more notes regarding the records of pyrotechnics. Pyrotechnic means which form an integral part of sea-saving equipment may be sold to legal and/or natural persons who possess vessels for which a special regulation has established that they must be equipped with pyrotechnic rescue equipment at sea. Pirotechnic means used in rail, air and road transport and rocket modelling, agricultural and similar activities should only be sold to legal and natural persons carrying out that activity. Legal persons and craftsmen engaged in the retailing of pyrotechnics are obliged to keep registers on legal and natural persons sold to the above-mentioned pyrotechnic means. In addition to those registers, legal persons or craftsmen shall also be obliged to keep a register on the sold pyrotechnic assets of the third class. Among other things, the information that leads is the date of sale, the code and the amount of pyrotechnic means, the name and last name, the number of the buyer's identity, the customer's own signature that he has received detailed instructions from those pyrotechnic means and that they will be followed. Finally, the HDZ club will support changes to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65041	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first and only turn is the esteemed Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65042	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Before us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Explosive Substances to be adopted by emergency procedure precisely for the reason that the majority of its amendments could be applied during Christmas holidays because I firmly believe that it will be published and enter into force by that time. On several occasions, the Ombudsman pointed to the problem of child injury when using pyrotechnics and proposed amendments to the Explosive Substances Act which would contribute to greater safety of the use of pyrotechnics in terms of the possibility of selling pyrotechnics. In the 2009 report on the work of the Ombudsman, as well as in the letter of the Ombudsman for children addressed to the Ministry of the Interior, it was proposed to amend the Law on Explosive Substances in order to limit the sale and use of pyrotechnic assets to children for their protection and safety. Often and severely injured children pointed to the importance of responsible thinking about child safety as well as the importance of their comprehensive protection. The Ministry of the Interior as a Proposer of Amendment to the Law adopted this proposal and approached the draft amendments and additions of the Explosive Substances Act in such a way that the pyrotechnic means of Class 2, 3 and 1 and 1 and P1 can only be sold to persons over 18 years of age and from 15 December to 1 January. It is also proposed to repeal the applicable provisions of the law under which Class 2 pyrotechnics can be sold to persons over 16 years of age and Class 3 pyrotechnics to persons over 18 years of age. It also eliminates the possibility that Class 3 pyrotechnics may be used by persons under the supervision of parents or guardians under the supervision of their parents and guardians as they have been so far. In order to contribute to an even greater security of use of pyrotechnic assets with these changes and additions, a ban on the sale of Class 1 pyrotechnics in mobile shops is also proposed, so they are market stands, fairs or similar, and there remains the possibility of selling first class pyrotechnics by all solid facilities such as shops and kiosks and the possibility of selling pyrotechnic assets to the second, third and 1st and P1 classes in the premises that have received the approval of the MUP and have met the prescribed conditions for holding and storing pyrotechnic assets, weapons and ammunition. Finally, I believe that these amendments to the Explosive Substances Act will make a significant contribution to the safety of citizens in the holidays, especially the most vulnerable groups of children, and that is why I will accept its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65043	Thank you. Final review, esteemed Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65044	Here, thank you very much. I'd just like to explain to Mrs. Hursi about her question. The reason was not a proposal to amend the law just because of the prosecutor's request for children, there were other requirements. However, this concrete answer to your question is – much more important is the use, or period of allowed use of pyrotechnics than sales. In fact, we are all aware that we adults often buy pyrotechnics, so we give them to children. But these changes and additions are prescribed precisely in which period the second, third-class pyrotechnics should be used, which is from 26 December to 1 January. So make sure that by the time the pyrotechnics can begin and apply the law, they can enter into force. By the 15th is not realistic, we are sorry that we may not have already been able to sell it, but for some other technical reasons here we have not directed it early enough to be accepted before 15 January, but it will certainly be published and will be applied before 26 January since pyrotechnics can be used. Which I think is the most important thing. It means to disable the abuse of pyrotechnics, not sell. Here, just so much clarification. I think we could've done it sooner, we could've done it faster, but we didn't come to the final teat either, so we didn't make the ultimate goal that we wanted together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65045	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65046	I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Explosive Substances. Please, let's get involved, let's vote. With 102 votes in favour, 2 abstentions were passed by the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65047	We'll skip point 8 because we don't have the conditions for her raps. So we move on to point nine, and we're gonna end up with that point today. - Report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2009 Proposer of the Agency for Electronic Media. The electronic media council has submitted a work report pursuant to Article 58(3) and Article 58(9). The law on electronic media. The proposal for an act has been entered into the boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdenko Levak, director of the agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65048	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the Assembly Committee. In short, just a report that contains about 40 and some pages. I'd do one symbiosis in five minutes and just remind you of what it was about and what we were dealing with in 2009. Since the Council monitors the implementation of the Law on Electronic Media by means of sub-legislative acts, controls the directive on audiovisual services, the European Convention on Transboundary Television, and other rules relating to electronic media. And our work in 2009 is also actually written in the report, consisting of two parts. And on the other six months, the council was working, and I would say in the back of the system because it wasn't completed, so it worked at one point in technical support. At 6 months, the council has been filled and has been working full steam since 6 months in terms of its function. I would like to divide the entire work in 2009 into several segments that are very important. In fact, a few segments that point to us what we must and can do under the Law on Electronic Media. During 2009, the Council was subject to two-way supervision, implementation of programme principles and obligations. In one way, it is to directly monitor and monitor radio and television programs. And another way is direct surveillance. In 2009, 19 publishers were directly monitored in their premises and three television publishers. By implementing the former Law on Electronic Media, the Council has an obligation to do so and to implement the provisions and to establish infringements of the Law on Electronic Media, so that in 2009, it has made 3 requests for a misdemeanour procedure, 3 warnings, 10 warnings and a few other instructions in which the law should be implemented and all within the framework of regular procedures and respecting the procedure laid down by law thoroughly. The Council actively participates in the digitalisation of television activity process, so that this success that has been achieved among the first countries in 2010 is fully digitised by television. I think we have the right and we attribute it to our activities and our success along with all the other institutions that have worked on it. One of me would say harder and longer-term jobs is in segments that the council is actively opening a tender on the Pluralism Fund and through that part of the allocation provided for by the HRTV Act to be allocated immediately 3%, it has distributed 30 million 302 000 and 810 kuna in such a way that 50% of the laws are passed on to 50% of television. I must inform you that a thousand 329 radio and 279 television shows have applied for the competition. What does that mean? All the shows that come are actually mandatory council members get this material and council members are mandatory and have done so neatly to review and listen to all these shows. And on the basis of this offer and these programmes, it makes a decision as much as it will and in what way will support it for certain emissions. So it's resolved by our sublegal acts as well as by how this procedure is conducted. In 2009, the Council launched 4 concessions where it awarded 72 radio and 2 TV concessions. Let me remind you again that, in the same way, in the invitation to tender of emissions and all that is required by law, tender documentation is submitted by members of the council to review and, on the basis of their personal views, make a decision on the award or not award of concessions. In 2009, the Council also had to lead the obvious publishers of electronic publications, by adding this new law where we were further bound and set up certain tasks. It's an extensive job and it's a simple job that's being set up today and puts into line direct communication between the council and the public. The international co-operation was attended by members of the Council at 6 international meetings, conferences and workshops. The work of the council has also been recognised in a way that an American agency has proposed precisely to the Council for Electronic Media in the Republic of Croatia to mentor a new state that was recognised in 2010, which is the Republic of Kosovo. We have actually received a task and have done it very correctly and have done it in some way monitoring or education of members who should work by our example in their own country. As regards the professional activities of the Council under the law, there is also a obligation to carry out professional activities, and there she organised round tables, and among other things she participates and she is a co-organizer of major actions or a large programme that organizes together with the Croatian Radio Publisherses Association, so that in these lectures and on these panel discussions we actually resolve and in some ways agree with the Strategy for the Development of Electronic Media. In 2009, the agency that was a professional service council worked with five employees, so now you can imagine how much work was done for these employees, but at the end of the year we strengthened that service, that actually the logistics of the council and today the agency is working with 10 people and 11 people, and I think it's working very successfully and this second part that has already set up for us and established a new law passed at the end of 2009. That's very short and shura information, that's one symbiosis report actually, and in the debate and the questions you're going to ask me I'm going to answer you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65049	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Nenad Stazić, Information, Information and Media Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65050	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee considered this report as a parent working body, and in the debate we praised the report and pointed out that it was transparent, transparent and content-written, and several proposals were also made. First, the distribution of funds of the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media should also indicate the headquarters of the company. Furthermore, cooperation should also include cooperation with our committee because this cooperation is very good. The question has also been asked how many commercial televisions perform public functions and, if they do not meet it, do they bear any sanctions. In this regard, a surveillance issue has also been raised, and it is responsible that all the information related to the award of concessions and programme bases will be published on the website of the Electronic Media Council and will thus be made available to the public. As regards non-intentional consumption from the Fund for the Protection of pluralism and diversity of electronic media, there is an obligation for all publishers to submit reports on the spending of funds by 31 December. After the discussion, the committee decided unanimously with 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the conclusion to accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65051	Thank you. The Committee on Gender Equality, the Honorable Representative of Gordana Sobol and the chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65052	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, at its 40th session, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for the period from 41 January to 31 December 2009. Introductoryly, the President of the Electronic Media Council met the members and members of the Committee with the work of the Electronic Media Council and the Electronic Media Agency. In the following debate, it was warned that this year's report contained a deficiency compared to the previous one. Namely, data have been left out for which the programmes have been allocated to individual publishers by the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media. It is expressed dissatisfaction with the minimum resources allocated to achieve programmes that promote awareness of gender equality. Only 1.96% of the funding in television and 1.7% of radio publishers of the total funds of the fund that amounted to more than 30 million kuna per year. It has also been requested to clarify whether there have been cases where not those programmes have been broadcast by publishers who have been allocated to the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media for the achievement of awareness-raising programmes on gender equality and how the Council for Electronic Media is overseeing publishers. It is also pointed out the need to find the possibility of further stimulating publishers in the production of programmes that encourage the development of awareness of gender equality. There are also negative examples of advertisements showing women and men in a discriminatory and stereotype way, contrary to the Law on Gender Equality. The applicant’s representative explained the procedure for the implementation of the public tender for the allocation of funds and found that there were no cases that the selected publishers had not broadcast the programmes for which they had been allocated and that, for the sake of quality control of the council, they had recently invested in software that enables the 24-hour recording of each TV programme. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion adopting the 2009 report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65053	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative of the Sunana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Director. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the proposed report and we consider it detailed enough, especially if we talk about a period of one year earlier. The report was equally positive by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In 2009, as stated in the report, the Council awarded 52 concessions and 50 radio and 2 TV concessions. Since June 2009, the Council is obliged to carry out preparatory actions to grant concessions under the Law on concessions. The Council also actively participated in the drafting of the Law on Electronic Media. I will commend transparency in the conduct of a public tender for concessions, which is also witnessed by the fact that no appeal has been made. One of the activities was to participate in the digitalisation process of television broadcasters, and all regional or local publishers confirmed a unique switch to digital broadcasting. So here's how we can say that locally we've become available everywhere in this way, so that they can be to us and when we're not in our homes or in our counties, available and such news that we're naturally interested in. By 31 January of each year, the publishers are obliged to submit data on ownership and changes in the ownership structure, so we can commend that from the initial problems, or if you want to, serious compliance with law enforcement and compliance, because according to the report only one television publisher has not submitted a report, and of 157 radio publishers, 11 of them have not done so, which is why, of course, they have been given warnings. As for the violation of the Law on Electronic Media, the Council has initiated a misdemeanour against four publishers, six warnings, 14 warnings. So, monitoring is being conducted. However, I will immediately warn of the need to strengthen the human resources of the Council and the Agency in view of the increased tasks that have arisen since this year, which is that, in accordance with the law, the Council must also work on monitoring and on electronic publications. I'm sure we'll hear more about it by the year. A little more than 30 million kuna is distributed from the Pluralism and diversity Fund of electronic media in almost equal proportions to just over 15 million kunas for radio operators and just as much for broadcasters. 141 radio publishers and 21 televisions applied for the competition. I will repeat what is in the provisions of the law, which is that the funds of the Fund must encourage the production and publication of software content of electronic media at local and regional level, which are of public interest, and particularly important for the exercise of the rights of citizens to public information, national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, the promotion of specific programmes in areas of special state concern, the promotion of cultural creation, the development of education, science and art. It also states in the law that funds will encourage and employ highly educated professionals in electronic media at local and regional level. I mention this for reasons because for education and change of education structure I will dare say not to see much progress and it is almost incredible that all publishers still do not have any software content intended for public information. The minimum number of reported emissions to the area of special state care is also one of the provisions of the law, and to promote gender equality, which we believe needs to be changed as quickly as possible. Although the Report contains publishers, the Fund's users note that there are no specific emissions as well as details of their content from which we could read something in more detail what is actually from these funds and paid. Quality monitoring is necessary to monitor spent resources that will certainly help, i.e. already help investment in new software that is running indirect monitoring along with, as we have heard from Mr. Leviaq, a direct stalker to ensure supervision of the implementation of provisions on programming principles and obligations. As regards the financial report, the Agency for Electronic Media made revenue of 0.5% of the total gross income achieved in the previous year by the broadcasters of the television or radio programme. The revenues of the Agency for Electronic Media in 2009 amounted to 13 million 766 thousand kuna, and we must say that they are 1j0% higher than the year before. Given the new legal obligation to monitor again, it will be interesting to see and hear the report that we will discuss, and this will be for 2010 what will be found there and I hope that these remarks will be appreciated, too. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65055	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65056	Thank you very much, Vice President. The SDP Club will accept this Report because we think it was made quality, professionally, transparently and reflects actually one good work of the Electronic Media Council. This Council indeed acts as an independent, independent body. It is funded by the publishers themselves, which is an excellent solution and fulfils their three most important functions, which are awarded concessions for radio and television publishers, which is the distribution of funds of the Media Pluralism Fund and that is supervision under the Law on Electronic Media. When it comes to concessions, we also warned at a meeting of the Media Committee. Here I am now warning on behalf of the SDP Club. We believe that it is necessary to check, constantly control how many commercial publishers comply with the provisions of the concession contract, especially when it comes to their public function. Because commercial publishers didn't come to this country, nor was the law passed in order for them to earn money exclusively than to fulfill some public function, to enable one pluralism, to bring that pluralism, to enable the viewer, to give the citizen more sources of information, so that these sources of information must always be as objective and as quality as possible. Not information is the only public function. It is only one in a series of public functions that these commercial publishers should meet according to the provisions of their concession contracts. We therefore encourage the Council to keep an eye on this and keep us informed in the future. The agency has few employees, and we here may be somewhat irresponsible with every new law imposing all new and new obligations. They have also received new obligations now that we have changed the Law on Croatian Radio Television. It is not good no matter how valuable and high - quality people are on their shoulders to get more and more jobs together so that we do not lead to the fall of the quality of their work now at a truly envious level. Once a year, here are three years in a row, publishers gather on the days of the electronic media, and it is nice to always stay at the meeting. My colleague and I were there this year. This brings together all the publishers, and watch when it comes to the allocation of funds to promote pluralism of the media, indeed not a single publisher, ever but never objected to the Agency's deployment of those funds which mean that they are deployed transparently, according to certain rules that are known in advance, to be deployed fairly and to be deployed for the purpose to which they should be deployed. You know, when you have over 150 radio publishers, it's really unlikely that you're going to get into a situation where no one's objecting to you, and it's the money that's at stake. Here's the agency managed to do it so, the Council of Electronic Media or the Agency, they managed to do it so that there really was no objection, and there they needed to take off their hat and give the confession. A lot has been done to protect a minor. The Council and the Media Committee worked together on this issue, we held a joint meeting, we saw what can be done, how these measures are stepped up, how to introduce better control, and after a series of warnings, cooperation with the publishers themselves has made enviable progress. They are marked by the number of age groups, all of these emissions, are not broadcast at an inappropriate time, the council controls it, monitors it, and I think that in this respect we can all be satisfied because it is a very important segment, a very important segment, perhaps the most important, minors, children must be on our minds when it comes to the media, because they are the weakest link in society and they are the easiest, and the most sensitive and the easiest to hurt them, the easiest thing to do is to turn them away from the roses and endanger them in any other way. There's still a show, unfortunately I have to say, there are shows that should be fun character and where their leaders live on those kids, they yell at them that they can't sing when, they don't have hearing, that they're holding on, that they're dressed. We as a society must look after these minors, even when their parents agree to such harassment, because parents may be irresponsible, if they are already irresponsible, we as a society must not be irresponsible. So when their parents won't protect them, we have to protect them. And such shows should be removed from the screen, I say progress has been made, I am convinced that with such a quality council we will come to full success, to full success and to raise those standards, that no one will ever think that because of their earnings, because of ratings, they will live on minors and children. The Council has great powers when it comes to publishers. He can file criminal charges, and he can issue warnings. Violent reports are, I'd dare say weaker means. Why? It goes, it goes to the Criminal Court, so until the debate is scheduled, so until the debate is held, so it is inadmissible, so this one complains, but we know how our judiciary works slowly, so the years pass, no one even knows why some punishment has been imposed which is then financially or is once again a warning by the court, all of this is worth nothing. But the Council's remarks are very, very effective, because after three such Council warnings can take away the concession, it can take away the concession for one hour, for one day, for a month, it can take away permanently. That's what the publishers are most afraid of. And that's the most effective measure. The most effective measure of the threat will take your concession if you don't do business under the law and break the rules of the Electronic Media Act. It's a good thing there are examples here, too, to see what kind of misdemeanors this is all about. This guy from the radio Jaska kind of disgusted me, it was some kind of donation to the book library in Jaska, and now it's radio Jaska d.o.o. he reported it, and there he was surprised that out of those 600 books that local HDZ donated to the library there were books in Serbian. And then radio Jaska says that they weren't even supposed to be in that donation, but that he hopes that when they found themselves, no one in the library policy would take them and not read them. That saying on one radio is scandalous. It's scandalous, it's been filed in that case criminal charges, I think they're like this, I didn't know that someone could think of it talking in a public service, that he deserved it and a stricter punishment and confiscation of concessions, and at least for one day, to learn that these things can't be. I'm not going to list all these others here now, you could see it all, but also through these warnings, and through warnings, and through the initiation of a misdemeanor procedure you can see a clear effort of the Council on Electronic Media to do a little bit more order here. What we as a society should still do, it's better to regulate the portals. It means everything you see on the Internet. Here we are the other day discussing the Law on HRT, not just us, the whole society, the whole of Croatia has been discussing about 4 or 6 minutes for HRT marketing, there are as many marketing portals as you want, it's one wild west, it's none of us looking, it's not even controlling, there's no tax being paid, the state is losing, and these other publishers are losing the publishers because that marketing cake is running through their portals and it's losing control. Of course it can't be done by the Council for Electronic Media just to do it, there is also a need to adopt regulation, it is necessary to pass laws, instruments, tools, in order to get strong weapons or at least tools if it isn't a weapon to be buried a little bit and in that segment, we shouldn't pretend that this problem doesn't exist for much longer, just because it's a newer date, because it's in expansion, it's going to spread and it's going to continue, and therefore it also needs to fit into some legal frameworks. I have to say we're not here, we don't need to overshut the government, we're not the exception, there's no Germany, and I'm the law on tracking the portal, the way the portal is monitored, they don't have any other countries, but it still doesn't free us from the obligation to stick to it, to stick to it a little bit. Here's to these words of praise, and the other one I can't say but commendation, once again I repeat the SDP club will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65057	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. The second is Karolina Leakovic. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Then he's the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone, and he's losing his right to debate. So she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone, and she's losing her right to debate. And there is a distinguished representative, Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65058	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Council for Electronic Media and the Director of the Agency, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry of Culture. So I will join in this very short debate because both the HDZ Club and the SDP club supported this 2009 Report of the Council on Electronic Media. I would just like to stress briefly that this year we have an exceptional opportunity to discuss reports twice in one year at the plenary sessions of the Croatian Parliament. I would remind my colleagues and colleagues that this year we also adopted a report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media and for 2008. It is clear for objective reasons that we hope will no longer be repeated. Since I am also a member of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament and we have heard the position of this home working body which unanimously supported this report let me express my satisfaction with this report for a few reasons. We have already heard that the report is quality, transparent and methodological from year to year is getting better and better, content, very transparent. It testifies to the quality of legislation in the field of electronic media in the Republic of Croatia, which is in line with the EU acquis. It also testifies to the quality work of the Electronic Media Council to monitor the implementation of the Electronic Media Act. But it also testifies to the increasing respect for legal provisions by television and radio publishers. Testify that too, colleagues and colleagues, that nothing overnight can change, but here we also seem to be able to be satisfied and at the speed of change. In fact, any change causes additional effort and effort. And I think that in the field of electronic media from the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Resorving Ministry of Culture in the Parliament that we have adopted through this time all the amendments and additions of the Law on Electronic Media and, at the end of 2009, adopted a new Law on Electronic Media to the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency, and then all radio and television publishers and even the publisher of electronic publications will do a good job and wish me to show, with certain steps, so what is good can always be better, that in this direction and continue, and I hope that the Law on Electronic Media which is being handled during this year 2010 will show and testify, therefore, the Agency's report for this year, that it will testify on progress and on this plan. What I'd like to say about the quality of the agency's work, about her professional teamwork. I see both 2008 and 2009 that the team worked in the same number. So the same number of members, clearly he's given, but the same number of workers. So then I especially commend that the council, compared to 2008 when only 6 direct monitors were carried out, increased the number in 2009 to 21, while indirect surveillance in 2009 was performed by 5 radio publishers and four televisions. When we talk about the violation, so on the surveillance, and it will never be that someone will not violate the legal provisions, I agree with the chairman of the Information Committee, that these 6 warnings that were made during 2009, carried out 4 infringement proceedings and 14 warnings to television and radio publishers not to respect, better said to violate the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media, I don't know whether it should be more rigorous, but, let's say, in the infringement procedure, I compared the 2008 and 2009 Report. – one commercial television that has a concession at national level repeated infringements during both 2008 and 2009 and finally brought a misdemeanour procedure to the Council of Electronic Media. As we are aware that our misdemeanor courts, or these proceedings, are taking too long to take the real effect of this year, here is when the report is submitted, and we are considering it in December 2010, we do not yet have the right information, but perhaps more stringently to go with the warning because the publishers know very well what it means when the council makes 3 warnings. And since I was alone on the days of the electronic media, I would take advantage of this opportunity, and in this I would make that remark that was heard, which the publishers of local and regional television and radio houses delivered, it is here in this report contained on the page. 17, and it's a commitment, a legal obligation. This provision is also contained in the new Law on Electronic Media, which is an obligation for the authorities of the State Administration and other users of the state budget to spend 15% of the annual amount intended to promote their services or activities on advertising in programmes of regional and local electronic media. Radio and television operators are normally obliged to report to the Council by 31 March of each calendar year on the advertising carried out. On this occasion, I would like to commend them for 2009 that they have fulfilled their obligation and have shown this, and here I want to convey the dissatisfaction that they have said to remind them in a certain way, and also as a member of the Media Committee, and then I would like to ask the present president of the Council for Electronic Media to make sure here to remind the authorities of compliance with the provisions of this article, then it was 19a, now I do not know exactly what is in this new law but that the authorities of the state administration take care of compliance with this provision. 2010 may be too late, but the time is ahead. I hope that in such good cooperation as we are as the Committee on Electronic Media and the Agency that good cooperation will continue and that many things in the field of television and radio activities will improve. And I don't want to repeat the situation that I, as Parliament's representative from Brod-Posavina County, had to present here and ask what's going on with radio publishers at the level of local self-government where some mayors want to take over the management of the media. This will probably also be in the 2010 report. I would like to stress once again that I support this report and I want a lot of success in working on implementing the Law on Electronic Media Council for Electronic Media and the Electronic Media Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65059	Thank you. And last known representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Sir at the head of the Electronic Media Agency. In the last debate that was on HRT, I spoke about the importance of public television in relation to commercial television, the difference between the market and what is not marketable. Because if we were to speak only in the context of what can be market, then we would stay for a lot of things denied in our daily life, because maybe history isn't so market-based, art is not so market-based, it's not so market-based at the school we read, mathematics is not so market-based, but we know at a mature age how much it really takes to perform on the market. Therefore, the responsibility of public television is very great for the culture of one nation, for one state, it is public and important in its educational respect, because no one else has an obligation other than public television to say it. Is public television doing as God commands? Is she working professionally? Does it work well? Is it fair? Is she a cheerleader? We can discuss this and conflict whose side weighs more or less, but what is its function is extremely important. So I would actually use the debate on your report to discuss a possible new report, a future report, or I don't know which report in advance in the event of concessions at national level. For reasons as much as the market is so that we should compete fairly on it and by some criteria come, but also as we know there must be public television for some reasons and not only marketable, and so I think that in this valorisation I do not want to get to the bottom of it, but I do need to talk to those I represent to say some thoughts that I think may be important, perhaps irrelevant, but it's important to mention. So there are a lot of local radio stations, there are a lot of local TV, in Split 4 in Rijeka 2 I don't know in Osijek, Zadar, so there are some local initiatives to make some production less good or worse. But in this market environment in which no one of the local interests at the point of view of state importance is concerned, because we have enough money for anything that is recognized directly, that does not care about what is happening at the local level. Local programs can represent locally interesting news, locally interesting programs, but local programs can represent something that is relevant at national level and relevant to sound as a viewing example, as a boost, as a warning and any reason. For the same reason, both public and commercial televisions go conditionally to the provinces to go regions and collect that building that is interesting to the general population. In order for local television and radio stations to have their importance at national level, they must have the possibility of funding to produce such programmes. In order to get the money these programs will produce, they must be marketingly interesting. Let's just say I don't mention the name of any of the producers now, that it's interested that in Split, that in Rijeka, there's advertising in Osijek, because it knows if it's advertised through some local station that it won't just stay at the local level but also at the state level. So it seems to me that in the interest of Croatia's integrity, rather than breaking Croatia into regions, because regions exist when they are isolated, when they do not live with the rest. So, in the interest of the integrity of the state and with regional presence in terms of the problems and interestingness and the rest, it would be good if you were out of the market frameworks, so beyond just how much I pay you, how much I give or how much I give you, but with certain quality guarantees, if you knew, by this as in skating, the assessment of technical solutions and the artistic impression. If in this category of artistic impression or state interest options were discussed in the competition for national concessions and those coming from Osijek, and those coming from Rijeka, and those coming from Split, of course I am not talking about Makarska, Dubrovnik, Šibenik, Zadar because I would vulgarize the topic. But for something that is today recognized as three some regional centres of great power. If there were this possibility I think that the profitability of these national concessions would be much higher, so that they could be at national level present topics that cannot be expressed today and that as much as possible pay some particular attention to it, of course always working by conscience, fair and by the rules of the game that exist. But that this dimension, which is in some way not marketable but political, national, culturally, is also very important to take into account in defining. Because then perhaps we would see in the report by one year that we have benefited from it all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65061	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative finally want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Zdenko Levak, director of the agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65062	Here, for a little while. First of all, I thank you for supporting the report to all the members who discussed it here on stage. However, I will tell you a few things, and they may have little connection and impact on the work that will take place in 2010. We're talking about 2009 when the old law was still in force and we worked on it. However, these questions were raised similar to those raised in this booth to me on the parliamentary committees, so I would like for those who did not want to repeat themselves on the parliamentary committees. In the award of the concession, one of the basic conditions, in fact, depends on the concession, one of the basic conditions is always the programme. It's always about local programmes, except we have national ones, we have literally defined how many national concessions, and that's what I'm talking about in 2009 and with the basic programme, the council is actually studying the programme, and then analysing the programme is going to decide whether or not it will give a concession. There are rightly objections in public, and even here in the Croatian Parliament, in fact, the question arises whether, apart from public television, all other televisions, what their obligations are. In order to oppose relations, the Council has made a decision and is already filling our website in order to put into context the programming base of television on the national concession, but also on local and other concessions, both on television and radio. In one relatively short time, a month or two days, we will have all those who want to be informed about what local radio or national television and local television will be able to enter on a programme basis and together with the programme council to monitor whether they are fulfilling their obligations. This one interaction that the Council wants to establish between citizenship, audience and listeners and publishers who have their own obligations thinks they will give a quality, universal control of whether and how the concession obligation is actually carried out. I have to tell you that we, and within, until this is done, we monitor and monitor for 24 hours, software is actually monitored for television programs, and based on these programs is the Council, I'm not going to name a reporter, but a big TV reporter with a national concession has given him three warnings this year. You know what three warnings mean? That means another mistake, a misdemeanor on a sublegal basis for which we must have arguments is a confiscation of concession. It is not, it may seem a little strict, but we are the position that only in such a way can we form and commit those publishers who have received trust through the law, through the Croatian Parliament that you chose us to have the confidence to function on the market, in fact to carry out their obligations. Here you will see, according to this report, the 2010 report will be much, much stricter because the new law has given us even more real powers, you will see that it is actually one of the results of why we are less asking a question or less we have problems, so if you want to protect children and so on. We haven't entered the second segment thoroughly yet, we're getting ready, we're going in, they're all new things on this market and how we actually use marketing minutes. And this is what the Council will actually be for the 2010 report, it will inform you about where and in what way and how we have reacted with the right to have all the gains that go beyond that have the right by law longer and will also be taken away and put into some other funds. No one's actually going to make money where they can't do it and where the law forbids it. It's our function. Among other things, I assure you that the council will continue to work very, very thoroughly on this. As regards the meeting or association of a very thorough and good programme on electronic media that took place in Rovinj this year, it was an objection with law and we saw it, the remark that the state administration did not fulfil its obligations under the 2010 law. We have instructed, after that we have sent letters and I assure you when we receive, therefore there is a procedure, we have sent letters to state administrations, when we receive answers, then we will direct it both to the Government and to the Parliament who performs the obligations under the Law on Electronic Media. We do not recognize anyone other than those who carry out or who does not comply with the obligation, and then other institutions, in fact, who already have no authority, will have to do something that needs to be done to simply agree to respect and act according to the law as ordered by the law. As for the grant of funds, it was there, I will repeat, I am glad to hear what Mr. Stazic said and Mrs. Bilic, it is the fact that we have no objections. They'll try to keep the council working so much further, because there's actually one right approach and a good intention that there are no privileged ones, that there are actually good and bad programs or better programs, and we're going through these programs, what we were just told about, actually favouring programs that concern local administrations. So local interests, I don't mean local political administration, I mean local interests. We have sublegal acts that the council brings that determine exactly how the funds are allocated and then favoured actually those emissions that we think are of local interest. However, the digitalisation itself that was adopted this year gives great opportunity, there will be a lot of programmes. We're going to, in fact, bring two new concessions, assign, in five days we're going to have three more, whether we're going to assign them or not, but we have a real allocation. So we will, the Croatian citizens will have 8 and 11 channels on the national concession next year, and that is already one big competition in the programme, but also a big commitment, in fact, to fulfil the obligations under concessions. I will end up with the fact that, by digitising television itself, I think our citizens will actually come to their own, that they will have the opportunity to choose what they want to see and, in fact, in such a way as to interact with both the Council and with all other bodies involved in this work, to help us have a better programme in the Republic of Croatia. That's it, thank you very much. I think there were a few answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65063	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met. This concludes with today's session, and tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. on the 11th agenda, which is the report on the work of the 2009 Presentation and Appeals Committee, the applicant of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-08-0.u65064	The report on the work of the Electronic Media Council and the Electronic Media Agency for the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2009, is a proposal from the Council. In accordance with the proposal of the Parliamentary Working Authorities and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: The above report is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. WITH 102 votes for and 3 abstentions reached the proposed conclusion.
