ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53967	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. The report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality is the 7th annual report, which I submit to the Croatian Assembly in my term of office, detailing all activities of the Ombudsman's Office during the reporting year, in accordance with the powers and the part-time work of a particular Law on Gender Equality. First of all, something about the office's work indicators, during 2009, was a total of 919 items, of which 885 cases opened in 2009, and 34 cases were transferred from work years. Of these, 308 cases were received following complaints from citizens and citizens, of which 274 new cases were received in 2009 and 34 from earlier periods. 9 new cases open to the Ombudsman's initiative and 600 new cases opened to the Ombudsman's initiative to monitor the application of the Gender Equality Act. The Law on Gender Equality has a lot of provisions whose implementation each year is being examined and in this sense we ask for information from all those factors in charge of law enforcement. This report is very, very extensive, but according to the new Law on Gender Equality, the Ombudsman has an urgent obligation to do analysis and research, which I think is seen from this report. What we did depends, of course, on what happens in the reporting year, and last year it was primarily local elections, and we did the analysis according to the parameters that we identified in 2005 in the last elections. Viewed by areas, these are represented by complaints and cases of all areas of action, meaning both employment and work and advertising and parental care and education and the media and political parties, state bodies, civil society and statistics. I remind you that statistics are one provision in the law specifically refers to statistics and we question it every year. In the process... We had 1.7% less complaints compared to 2008, but if there were 5% more, I think it can be concluded that there was one stagnation and I think in this report we gave our vision quite comprehensively, which is why. [[You don't understand.]] In one part of the report, we did an analysis of the work of the State Inspectorate, which also receives complaints about discrimination and the protection of dignity related to the Labour Act, and is seen in relation to 2008 and in them a drastic decline actually reported. Therefore, the conclusion of this report, which has been elaborated, I hope clearly enough, is that other than institutions, other than the law, there are some things that need to be further worked on in order for people to really seek the protection that belongs to them under the law and the Constitution, and since there are institutions that involve, first of all, the courts that can give them that protection. In fact, the ultimate goal is to provide judicial protection but we still do not have the information on how many cases in the courts are Croatian related to discrimination, but will soon be published because under the new Law on Discrimination, the Ombudsman will soon publish these data in his special report. So of course I can't even talk about the number of court cases, but what you see from some media shows seems to be gone... As far as the complaints are concerned, they came primarily from the city of Zagreb 37.4% and everything else is from the county, and the basis of discrimination in 88.7% was sex, and I remind you that we work, our responsibility is for gender discrimination, marriage, family status and sexual orientation. [[You don't understand.]] Compared to 2008, the number of complaints and gender-based discrimination was reduced, and the number of complaints based on sexual orientation, marital or family status and sexual orientation was increased, as I said last year. Looking at isolated cases relating to the field of employment and work is the most complaints about harassment and sexual harassment. Here I remind you that according to the legal provision and harassment is gender-based harassment, and there is still sexual harassment that is otherwise defined. So it's a relatively large number of complaints, but we also have violations of the right to protect motherhood. After we worked on our complaints, we sent 31 written warnings, 33 recommendations, and 19 suggestions, so what we can do according to the law. My assessment is that the reduced number of these warnings and recommendations are the result of progress in the work and conduct of police and welfare centres, as we have had much more in previous years, however, an analysis of complaints in the investigation process has shown that they are largely unfounded when it comes to police or welfare centres. So that resulted in a smaller number of recommendations. I remind you that we are doing this report primarily based on what we learn from the complaints, so our grades are about it. Otherwise, we sent 217 written warnings, 33 recommendations and 19 proposals related to the rest of the work. I think it is particularly important that this section of the report relating to the field of work, and here I return to that assessment that institutions and laws clearly do not show efficiency in protection because very little protection is required. We have therefore also made remarks to the Labour Act and we have elaborated it, but from only one point of view and this is a matter of protection against discrimination. The labour law like any other law can be considered from another perspective but our only perspective was whether such a law and its application create an environment where people feel secure, have safe employment and are sure that if they seek protection they will keep a job. From that point on, we evaluated the Labour Act and made some remarks because we thought that some different provisions would be more favourable to persons whose rights were violated. Here, above all, concerns the Institute of Labour for a certain time, I must remind myself, regardless of what the Law is very clear that the contract on working indefinitely is a fundamental contract under the Labour Act, according to the Croatian Employment Service last year, so registered employment was a total of 1118 newly employed of which, indefinitely, only 14.5 persons were employed. Everything else is employed for a certain time. So it's something that doesn't just change the legal concept in practice, but obviously it's a good reason why people don't ask for protection. Why do I say that? Because we, on a daily basis, talk to people and prosecutors and, of course, introduce them to our powers, they bring us to their problem, and unfortunately, in too many cases, they don't decide to seek protection in the sense that an examination procedure is being conducted, so we both have written and signed statements saying they don't want further proceedings even when we start to seek an end of proceedings because they're afraid that they'll lose their jobs and I see it as a big problem. What is very good is that I think we should say if we are talking about respecting certain provisions of the Law on Gender Equality in Employment Advertising and this provision aims at abolishing employment discrimination, we are following from year to year more progress we gave comparative analyses in September 2009, according to our analysis 88% of the advertisements were in line with the Law. Of course, as in earlier years, complaints in the field of employment and work were filed by most women, however, at this stage when sought, men are actually complaining at the stage of employment, and this is related to the tender for employment or employment procedure. Although in these complaints made by men, we have not in concrete cases found that gender discrimination was involved, and that was not possible from what we received as documentation because there was no way to claim that one man had not received the job because he was a man. It is obvious and it is particularly worrying to me, the absence of men in educational institutions supports stereotypes of male and female employment and violates the basic constitutional principle of gender equality. I don't think it's good for children to start with preschools and teach and educate only women. As for the equal sharing of parental responsibility, regardless of the right to parental leave that belongs to both men and parental support, statistics are clear that this benefit in practice only women. Prolonged maternity leave for a pre-born child was used by 1.1% of fathers. Another important thing about the labour market and yet related to the Law on Gender Equality, it's collective agreements. There is a provision in the Law that says that when collective bargaining and collective agreements of all levels, social partners are obliged to comply with the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality and the measures to establish gender equality. We thought it was time to start questioning the implementation of this provision and we did it by collecting and analysing 120 collective agreements. In the report that is also extensive in this regard, it is obvious that there is relatively little consideration and that much can be done when more attention is paid to these provisions. We of course did not question how the course of collective bargaining was, so who put what on the table, but we looked at the result, but what we gave as our recommendations I think all the social partners would have in mind. This is particularly about further development of the protection of the dignity of workers and workers, and let's say we found that in relation to the employment process, so already when you're not employed, there are very few provisions relating to discrimination itself. I remind you that we have encountered contracts that, when it comes to working for a certain period of time, regulate so that it does not expire, that deadline does not begin to run if a woman is pregnant. I think it's one of the good ways to get rid of these things through collective agreements. I particularly stress that as regards the provisions on pay equality, that such a provision has appeared in only 7 collective agreements, and that fact itself indicates the need for change, and in particular that a wage monitoring mechanism should be defined and how they are determined and in which period the salary analysis should be carried out. And there's no mechanism for whether the salaries of women and men are the same as those that would determine it. Of course, this applies to other things including overtime, work at home and all. There is another provision of legislation that is new under the new Law on Gender Equality, which is the implementation of anti-discrimination legal provisions and measures to establish gender equality through the general acts of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. That provision was laid down in law, we tried to ask if it was applicable. Of course, we have found no matter what the law has already been in place since 2008, but we have taken a step further because we think that there may be problems in understanding how to implement it so that this large part of the analysis actually gives to all those who are obliged to enter it and recommendations in order to do so locally. I just have to say, as far as all other areas are concerned, that I actually think that the provisions of the Gender Equality Act permitting specific measures should finally be applied in the field of work. We have special measures, for example, in the law itself regarding quotas and political participation, but that provision itself is almost nowhere to be changed. I don't know how we're going to implement the law without taking these special measures in different spheres of life. As for violence, unfortunately, instead of continuing the trend we observed last year of falling complaints or reporting to the police. The number of applications last year increased, but since we are dealing primarily with police work checks, the Social Care Centre in line with documents adopted by the government and the parliament, starting with the Protocol on the Treatment of Family Violence, is a large part of the complaints unfounded and is more based on informing people what should have been done to complain about the final outcome of these proceedings and those reports, and less on the fact that the police did not act in accordance with the regulations. And that's why the assessment of police work and welfare centres is positive. All points out, starting from an increase in the number of reports large to the number of women killed as victims of domestic violence, that no matter what happens at that previous stage of prevention is actually not effective enough, regardless of how many public policy measures have been adopted. What is done at the state level is a matter of psychosocial treatment as a good form of prevention and indeed, every year, there is an increasing number of experts and experts involved. However, it is not enough to get a licence and pay for the work of these experts and experts, and I think more funds should be allocated to continue. I also point here to the application of the Law on Free Legal Assistance because all our knowledge and conversations with our parties say they are not informed about the Law on Free Legal Assistance. Therefore, and this is already one of the reasons why protection is not also sought, and I think that there is something to be done, because the vast majority of parties first hears about the Law on Free Legal Assistance when they contact us for help. One part applies to education, of course. These indicators, of course, say that more women are enrolled in colleges than men and women graduate more often than men. However, the segregation in the area of education to educate women in certain areas, while men in others remain and should consider, in my opinion, possible specific measures in this area as well. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has in one document but not only in one document indicated that there is a proportionality between the needs of the labour market and the way people are educated and what interests and I think it is possible to do something about women by adopting certain specific measures. We also studied the ethical codes and statutes of universities in the Republic of Croatia and provided an analysis of the education of the Roma minority. I wouldn't particularly talk about the media because it's a comprehensive part of our report that we're following again because it's been given to us as an obligation under the law, and this Parliament has had opportunities through the HRT's work reports to see what the situation is like on public television. In any case, the shortest term sexism is still part of media content, and sex stereotypes and sexism as previously are used as the position of power or influence on which women are higher. And that is why I am warning in public statements that I respond to individual cases or warnings directly referred to editors or editors. These, of course, stereotypes are mostly discriminated against by women. There's also a part of the analysis of women in sports. Regarding women and health, it is very interesting that the topic last year in the media related to the Law on Medical Insemination broke out in a very high place, looking at gender equality issues. For women's health, I think it is also important to implement national policy measures to promote gender equality: a standardised protocol will be adopted on the treatment of medical staff in cases of violence against women, or the sexual one, as it was not implemented in 2009. As far as political participation is concerned, which also takes up a large part of this report, we worked on the principles as we did in 2005 so that today we can combine two electoral cycles and by comparing the results obtained with the 2005 results, we have concluded that women's representation in representative bodies has increased at all levels. The proportion of women on the candidate lists increased from 19% to 24.4, the proportion of women among the first 10 people on the list from 6.4 to 22% and the proportion of the holder of the list from 6.8 to 9.1 and the proportion of selected women increased from 10.7 to 15.5%. Of course, it is still a very small number of women elected in the local elections, but the average of selected women among all candidates and candidates for all representative bodies rose from 10.7 to 15.5%. But it reduces the number of women from the county congregations to the bottom, through city to municipal councils, and so there are 21.4% of them far the most in the county congregations. Looking at women's problems in positions of power, we analyzed the structure of state secretaries and secretaries in government bodies, and it turned out that out of 60 state secretaries and secretaries of the 13 female sex, it was 21.7%. We have also analysed the proportion of women and men in the management bodies of the majority state-owned enterprises and the situation is also not good. Men make most of it in 88.46% of the governing bodies. The judicial authority is naturally different. It's not particularly elaborated here, but all statistics suggest that women in the judiciary take far more positions than before. In conclusion, I would only say in principle that I find it very important that we finally start dealing with gender-sensitive budgets because they are actually mandatory to the international documents signed by the Republic of Croatia. The budget is mistakenly considered to be sexually neutral because the appropriations allocated to certain items of the budget have a different effect on men and women. So I think that if the next period were to take account of this, we might also have public policies and possibly specific measures that should look different.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53968	Thank you, Attorney General, for gender equality. Does the government's representative want to explain the government's position? Yeah. Mr. Stjepan Adanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family Affairs, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53969	Your Honor, Mr. President, Ms. Attorney General, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of the Republic of Croatia carefully examined the Ombudsman's report on gender equality, took note and indicated the following. In Chapter 2-Analysis by field of work relative to point 1.6-Discrimination by sex at... The need for employment in case 162 pages 75, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that, when preparing a Regulation on the classification of posts in local and regional and regional self-government units, care was taken of the gender neutrality of the term. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's very important for the prominent. In point 2.1. The domestic violence stated that the adoption of the Law on protection against domestic violence did not accept the lawyer's request for Article 4. The law concepts in a way that would allow a specific form of violence to be reported precisely in the process of reporting violence. In this respect, the Government of the Republic of Croatia indicates that the mentioned Article 4 of the Law is divided by the items which allow violence to be reported according to a specific paragraph, i.e. allow statistical monitoring. Also, under point 2.1, in relation to the part in which the importance of conducting the psychosocial treatment of the perpetrators of domestic violence is stated, this is page 86, it is necessary to point out that the Ministry of Justice has so far issued 31 approvals for the treatment of persons who are authorised and who are treated by the perpetrators of violence in the family outside health institutions are located in the area of several cities in the Republic of Croatia, for example in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek, Zadar, Dubrovnik, Varazdin, Slavonski Brod, Novska and Mali Losinj. In point 8-Research of local elections in 2009 compared to promoting the principle of gender equality under the heading Analysis of women's total representation in local elections, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points to the fact that instead of the words of the President, the words of the municipal chief/capital, mayor/ mayor, mayor/capital and mayor/ mayor of the City of Zagreb or the words of the holder/holder of executive powers, followed by changes resulting from the introduction of systems of direct elections and the termination of the existence of headship with executive bodies. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53970	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Committee on Gender Equality, Honorary Representative Gordana Sobol, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53971	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney General, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So at its 33rd session, held on 28 April, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the 2009 report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality. In the opening statement, the Ombudsman made a brief review of the office's work. There were 919 cases in total, 885 cases opened in 2009 and 34 from earlier years. The number of gender-based complaints has been reduced and the number of complaints based on sexual orientation, marital or family status has increased. There are also a large number of unfounded complaints and those unclear content. The position of women in the labour market has not changed significantly, the high proportion of women among the unemployed, the work of women in the underpaid sectors, the pay gap, the number of women employed on a fixed basis suggest the continued existence of an unequal relationship on the labour market, and significantly... It is only visible in respect of the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality in Employment Advertising, whose aim is also to eliminate discrimination in employment, it has been observed that a very small number of fathers use the rights conferred on the Law on maternity and parental support. [[You don't understand.]] As far as the State Inspectorate is concerned, the Ombudsman noted that the number of complaints about abuse of dignity in the workplace was significantly reduced compared to 2008, which explains the insecurity of the workplace, the fear of losing a job and the huge number of contracts at a certain time. In the field of education, the need for education programmes to be brought into line with labour market needs is highlighted, but insufficient activities to reduce the differences of definitions for so-called. men's and women's professions. Compared to domestic violence, a legislative framework has been strengthened by the adoption of a new Law on Protection against Family Violence, improved co-operation between police and social care centres, but prevention has not yielded the desired results, as the number of reported violence is higher than in 2008, especially when it comes to the increase in the number of victims of domestic violence. The problem is an insufficient number of experts and experts who would conduct the psychosocial treatment of the perpetrators from domestic violence, she recalled that when the law was passed, she proposed to separate the types of violence, which would allow precise statistical monitoring, but the request was not accepted, and there is no knowledge of the details and types of domestic violence, such as the Law on Free Legal Assistance is not used enough and further information is needed. There is also a way of showing men and women and the media, i.e. how much media implements the legal obligation to develop awareness of gender equality. Gender equality is not a media topic, and sex stereotype and sexism remain largely present in the media, while the problem and lack of only regulatory acts in the media. Statistics are an area where constant progress is seen which allows for comparative analysis related to certain areas of gender equality promotion and the Ombudsman has also warned that there are no gender-sensitive budgets. In the following debate, it was warned that because of the insecurity and fear of losing their jobs, citizens rarely decide to file a complaint for discrimination at the workplace, which is why the complaints are limited. Concerned about the fact that domestic violence last year increased by more than 12% compared to 2008. It has been stressed that prevention of domestic violence has been neglected, a warning repeated year after year. Several board members pointed out the media as a very problematic area. The way women and men are shown proved to be a very important factor in creating a picture of their position, roles, competences in society, and in this area the media do not adhere to the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality. It has been pointed out that after last year's local elections, there has been a certain increase in the number of women in the presidential bodies, but there is a huge difference between the counties. The need for upcoming parliamentary elections has been highlighted, to organise actions at all levels in co-operation with NGOs, to influence women's involvement in politics and to further sensitise the public. The head of the Office for Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia informed the Committee that the working group within the office had drafted a draft proposal for a protocol on the treatment of victims of sexual abuse to be referred to the procedure. The debate highlighted the problems of transsexual persons in Croatia, since they are provided with purely psychiatric help in Croatia. The D.A. pointed out that those individuals had never addressed her for help before, but that she was open to all kinds of initiatives. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach its conclusion: a report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53972	Thank you. I'm opening up. Do the other committees want it? Yeah. The Committee on Human Rights and the National Minority, the Honorable Representative of Denesh Soja, a member of the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53973	Mr. Vice President, Attorney General, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2009, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. The Committee considered that report as an interested working body. The Committee supported the report under consideration, with the conclusion that full insight into the work of the Ombudsman and its office is neat. It is also requested that the future reporting should take into account the provision of Article 178. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, according to which, in addition to the most extensive reports, this report also provides the Advocate General with a summary of the material to contribute to the wider interest in getting acquainted with the most significant observations and recommendations made by the Advocate General. In the debate, the focus was on key observations, proposals and recommendations made by the Ombudsman, in particular those relating to domestic violence and prevention, the position of women in the labour market, and in the field of education and representation of women in representative bodies and other public authorities. It was noted that the prevention of violence did not produce the expected results despite measures envisaged both by the Law on the Protection of Family Violence and by the Strategy on Protection against Family Violence, which is referred to in the report, according to which the number of cases of violence reported is greater than in 2008, even with the most tragic outcome. All this points to the need for the protection system to be reviewed and hastily effective measures taken to stop this extremely unacceptable trend. It has also been warned that women in the labour market are still in an unequal position, their high share among unemployed and underpaid sectors, pay differences and, in particular, their extremely high representation among employees under contract for a certain time, which makes them existentially more insecure and prevents them from becoming more involved in protecting their rights. It is therefore pointed out that these issues must also take into account the announced legislative reform. As regards the representation of women in representative bodies and other public authorities, it has been estimated that, despite certain shifts, the situation remains far from satisfying. It is pointed out that this assessment applies almost equally to both state-level bodies and local and regional bodies. It was pointed out that the Law on Gender Equality in the Assembly was adopted by procedure for organic laws, therefore as one of the laws for which the greatest support was sought but that no such case was observed in its application. Since the Law does not provide for sanctions, it is rarely participated as a declarative commitment, not as a norm to be executed as any other legal obligation. In order to change that position in the debate, it was pointed out that the bodies of the highest level, including the Parliament, should place a special emphasis on respecting this Law in order to influence the change of behaviour at all other levels in their case. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the following conclusion: First, a report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2009. Second, the opinions, observations and proposals presented in the debate presented in the Report as well as the proposals and recommendations of the Advocate General for Gender Equality in the Report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent state authorities more effective, and bodies with public authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53974	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53975	Thank you. Here, on behalf of the SDP Club, I can first say, in fact, that we only heard this morning that the government is receiving the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality, as the Secretary of State said. We have heard so far that two committees, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Human Rights have adopted the Report for the past year. Otherwise, the opinion of the Government, which has arrived at the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality, does not conclude, does not say anywhere to be accepted, does not accept or receive knowledge, has so far been written, accepted or accepted by the Government, and then makes some remarks. Secondly, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say, or perhaps ask, it is interesting this year that all reports that have arrived at the Croatian Assembly have received very extensive answers, comments by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, except for the Ombudsman for gender equality, her report like this on one paper, and all other opinions I believe you have received, that you have looked at them have over 10, 15 pages. Since the Ombudsman in her report pointed out and pointed to the problems that exist in the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality, it indicates where these are the hotspots where there is much more to be done, we in the SDP are actually surprised that certain findings that are not critical in the past require certain things to be made, there are no reactions. And what we've got is actually a warning of certain language deficiencies in this report when it's done, here's the D.A.'s attorney wrote by the president didn't write the mayor. So, we don't understand why this happened or maybe it's clear, is this the Attorney General's Report least important? It is difficult to talk about the importance, I think that all the lawyers in Croatia are equally important and that all the defenders deserve equal attention from the government, the competent ministries, the individual state bodies, the agencies, as we will call them, as this report refers to. This report refers to the entire state structure, to a good part of what should have been done from the state level by individual ministries, services or as we will call it. That's why it's true, this is the 7th Advocate's report already, and it's an accurate finding of a colleague and a colleague, that in Croatia, the Law on Gender Equality is very declarative. From opportunity to occasion, we will all talk about the Law on Gender Equality or we will refer to certain provisions when it comes to domestic violence, when it comes to women participation, the number of women in politics, when it comes to labour market discrimination. But then when certain measures are to be taken, when it may be necessary to review the measures that we have so far had through national policy, through different strategies, etc., when someone should have done an analysis of the effects of some measures, and then we stop, and obviously there is not enough will, I will not say strength, there is not enough will to change in this area. I will remind you here in the Croatian Parliament, we are discussing in Parliament a series of laws that are equally relevant to both women and men, who may perhaps not by most and unintentionally, cause further discrimination. Or when we have to show as a legislative body how we can respect the Law on Gender Equality, then we ourselves do not do so here. I will remind you that x times we have had certain appointments, recently two days ago we discussed the National Sports Council, we have not yet adopted it, when individual advocates and MPs indicate that we are obliged here, who have passed the Law to comply with the provisions of the Law and to ask the Government to adopt certain measures that will allow respect for the law. Then we don't accept it first, we don't say anything, and we kind of think someone else is going to do it for us. In Croatia there is no consistent application of the Law on Gender Equality, neither the National Gender Equality Policy nor all the strategies that we have brought, and I would like it to be as a warning somewhere because in a year we will bring the most new National Policy to promote gender equality, we will bring some new strategies, and I think it is time to stop kicking and just go over the fact that with a series of measures, it may be too late or that a series of measures that are not even implemented at all. It's kind of the attitude of us at the SDP club because it's been too many years now. Somewhere since 2000, we've opened up space for such initiatives, we've opened up space for different laws in these 10 years, fundamental laws like the Law on Gender Equality to bring basic strategies and national policies, and in fact we're somewhat too slow to realize what we wrote in them. The SDP Club accepts a report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for the past year. And on behalf of the club, I'm just going to look back at some of the observations the D.A. made in this report. I repeat by who knows which times again and again, especially when it comes to those key areas, which are the labour market, which is violence against women, which is women's participation in decision-making at all levels. These three areas are where women in Croatia are in an unequal position today. It is not clear to us that certain findings and indicators cited by the Ombudsman in the labour market, employment and work have not been shown from the Government. I would like to warn you that the largest number of unemployed women today and in recent years are in the age group of 50 to 54. The most difficult working group of age groups over the age of 50. In the total number of unemployed women, the figure is 15.3% according to end-2009 data. In the last year of 118 thousand 286 people were employed indefinitely only 17 thousand 186 and at a certain time 101 thousand 100 persons or over 85%. Well, isn't that an alarming piece of information that at least someone from the government should be manifested? Whether, among other things, these measures to be taken or taken already these days will in any way affect the reduction of this figure. And it is true that such figures show that the provisions of the Labour Act are directly violated, and not now for the past year and before, but several years ago, because employment is an indefinitely basic form of employment to say so, and for a certain time only in exceptional cases. Now we see that these exceptional cases for last year we have 85%, and a little less than 60% of that number are women. And of course, it also causes uncertainty at the workplace, of course it also causes the loss of a job, of course it also causes the fear of whether or not we are going to start a family or not, whether we are going to increase our family or not, and of course when in such a position they are in a general environment of crisis and general uncertainty in the whole of society that it is, in a way, reducing and deciding if there are certain discrimination during the working process, so it makes it impossible or significant to reduce a person's decision to go to regret at all, whether the lawyer should go to some sort of trial. And this year as well as all the years so far, the conclusion remains that we do not actually have court practice in Croatia. We have no complaints, we have no basis for making certain conclusions, indicators, etc., and the easiest thing to say is, well, there is certainly no discrimination when there is no court practice. Women are still underpaid, women are still in sectors that are less paid, women are still employed in a number of employees at a certain time still have pay gaps, these are now all statistics and when it comes to state-level, or state-owned enterprises and when it comes to the private sector and the only thing that has been said is a lot, much less discrimination in that first part of the job announcement, or in those ads when it comes to employment. We in the SDP expected that even these findings would be manifested, I suppose, at least by someone from the Ministry of Economy. When we talk about violence, we have passed a new Law on protection against domestic violence, all of us have found that this is a certain shift, not a certain but a major step forward of doing based on what has been the practice until then. And the secretary of state has been quoted in that article of the law as to what the article says, so the lines of violence involved are economic, psychological, physical violence, etc. but it should work on co-ordination with the Ministry of Police that when the police come to their senses and when they write the record from the insight that then they write that it's an article about both this and that it's about that and that kind of violence. As far as I know they don't do it and we won't have a year or two of any indicators when it comes to what types of violence in Croatia are the most pronounced when it comes to women, and that is then one of the basics of how and in which way and where to go to prevention. In this area when it comes to violence, an increased number of violent behavior happened, one woman was killed every 17 days last year. I think these findings deserve much more attention and much greater and broader comments from the government when it comes to the prosecutor's report. And finally, I'm going to say something because it's been quite current lately on behalf of the club about the media. Recently there was one round table, it might be in the next report. I think we still ignore that the media is obliged to reflect social realities on the one hand, but do not forget that other fact, that they, by their actions and create this same reality, and that if they produce stereotypes that are visible and that it causes between the other and the further production of stereotypes. In the past two years, the attorney general has, like, 12 thousand articles to be analyzed, advertised, and I don't know what not all of them are from public texts, but also from these others, and then we've been found to be present as women in over 80% of the commercials. And this is what I'm going to say, I guess because, as one of the last commercials says, I guess because we're the best for every position, please, last mattress commercial or maybe because someone wants to see us on the table, remember the sausage commercial or maybe because we know how to clean the stains best.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53976	Bring the end. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53977	I think that's something, here's a sentence, so I think it's something that we should talk about in this House and not just about the reports that Croatian public television will be delivering to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53978	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53979	Thank you. So if colleague Sobol was talking about the bribery of women in certain sectors, she said women were paid both in state or local self-government. I believe that's not true because the head has the same salary, whether it's male or female in both state and local self-government. They have coefficients, so you can't talk about bribery, you can say there's not enough numbers against men, but there's no way of paying them off. So in the state sector and local self-government, women are not underpaid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53980	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53981	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Attorney General, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club has been very interested in studying this very extensive report by the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2009. I can say that we consider the recommendations made by the D.A.'s attorney, and it comes out of this report extremely seriously. When we talk about gender equality, then reality and statistics point to the conclusion that women are more vulnerable groups, i.e. that they are often in an unequal position. And what does the daily day look like for women in Croatia? In the field of work, women are more unemployed, as much as 56.7% and work in the underpaid sectors, progress less than their male colleagues, more women work under contract for a certain time, make up the majority of gender-based harassed, horizontal and vertical segregation between men and women and are further burdened with family work. The obvious is a strong division into the so-called so-called. male and female professions at the level of secondary and higher education. Although we seem to live in a decent environment in reality, that's not the case. The highest percentage of complaints, according to the report, as well as previous years, refers to harassment and sexual harassment as much as 56.5%. Competitions and procedures follow in hiring pay gaps, moving to less paid or qualifications inadequate jobs, disabling progress, illegally signing work contracts and shorting out the right to perfect. The complaints in the field of employment and work were filed by most women. Men complain of gender discrimination mainly related to competitions for employment or procedure. The stereotype that only women should take care of children and households affects their discrimination on the labour market and is recognised as one of the main reasons for their limited social and political involvement. A more equal takeover of household duties and childcare will also contribute to better synchronising both employees and family obligations and allow women to return to work faster. The analysis of the implementation of anti-discrimination legal provisions and measures to establish gender equality through the general acts of units of local and regional or regional self-government carried out by the Advocate's Office shows that legal provisions are not implemented and that these units are also employers who have not introduced any measures to establish gender equality in employment. We have recently discussed the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information, and we can say that unfortunately the same county, cities and municipalities ignore their obligations and in implementing the Law on Gender Equality, and in that frontline unfortunately, the county that only has a mayor at its head. The results of the implementation of the 2009-2010 National Employment Promotion Plan show that men have always been involved in all the measures implemented and women have not been involved in certain measures by fewer women than men who have explained that they have been less registered. In 2008, according to the Croatian Employment Institute, more than 81% of newly signed contracts were contracts for a certain time. This affects the difficult situation of women, especially pregnant women and mothers to protect against the abuse of work contracts for a certain period of time. Additional insurance should be introduced to ensure that work on indefinite times is indeed a fundamental form of employment. When we analyse the implementation of the National Employment Promotion Plan from 2009 to 2010, data show that, through certain measures, fewer women than men are involved, but the percentage of women reported is close to the percentage of those measures. This was the case in 2008 which concluded that women in a significantly smaller number are applying to the Croatian Employment Service and other operators in the programme and are concerned that women in certain counties are not being registered at all. It also concerns the fact that during 2009, police proposed a total of 11000 752 safeguard measures, which is 19.5% higher than in 2008 when the proposing of 9833 safeguard measures was proposed, and more complaints about court decisions than in earlier years are being made. It really scares the M.O.P.'s data that the number of women killed by members of their families has increased dramatically. In 2008, 11 women were killed, while in 2009, as many as 21 women were killed. The number of all murders in 2009 was 49, down from the year 2008 when it was 67, but the fact that 21 victims of the murder were women killed by a member of the family, or 43% of all killings caused extreme concern. This shows that women are most exposed to the dangers of killings within their own home, in the environment of those who should respect, love, and protect them. This should again guide us to take greater action to prevent domestic violence. Domestic violence is a serious problem that generates further problems. This is a serious social problem because it is witnessed by children who can significantly damage it in the development, and there can also be intergenerational transmission of our own. Research shows that violence in partnership in the next generation is more related to the presence of violence among parents than to the direct abuse of a child by parents. In 2009, 28.3% of the complaints were against domestic violence, and most of them by women who were abused by married and extramarital spouses, but also by other family members, such as brother, father, father or son. And here, as with similar misdemeanors, the number of reports smaller than those that no one will ever report, let alone process because of the victim's intimidation and infrequentness of the environment, which is often ready to close its eyes in front of the bruises and scars on the woman's face and body. Those in the soul can't be seen, but it doesn't mean they hurt any less. During 2009, police received 18 thousand 951 requests for intervention to protect against domestic violence, which is 12.2% higher than the previous year when 16 thousand 885 interventions were requested. Part of the measures provided for in the national strategy for protection against domestic violence in the family for the period 2008 to 2010, were implemented in 2009, but also a large part of the measures are still in the implementation phase. When we analyse media publications, the largest number of articles published in 2009, related to gender equality, has been published in the policy area. Sexual stereotypes and stereotype divisions are present. Commenting on clothes, using metaphors in speech, hairstyle, and maintaining general attitude towards women as objects of judgment and criticism exclusively or primarily at the level of their appearance. Sexual stereotype and sexism, as before, are more used as the position of power or influence on which a woman is higher. Different media are treating the same events depending on whether women or men are involved in them. Women in public life, particularly politicians, are more often referred to in a trivial and demeaning context than their male colleagues, and women do not even get enough serious media space, which is thematic of their profession in relation to men. Compared to the 2008 prosecutor's report, there are no positive developments in the treatment of athletes in the media. Athletics only with exceptional top results manage to fight the media space, and their body is still more at the centre of interest when it comes to women in sports. Instead of sports results, more interesting physical appearance and willingness to take pictures with or without scarce clothes and even without it, the article about an athlete points out that the games are only due to her naked photos, consistent appearance and physical attributes. There have been positive examples, but these negative ones only support sexism and prejudice that a woman can be successful if she is beautiful, and this sends a bad message, especially to young people who, as she warns, are already too much attention to appearance, which is why they are exposed to the risk of eating disorders. The media is not interested in women in rural areas, they are not interested in the position of defenders, nor women in dangerous occupations, but for comfort and what little has been published about them is very affirmative. There's hardly a single theme about women in the Homeland War at all. Analysis of 381 interviews, and 103 headlines published in two of the most investigative national weeklys showed that of the 225 people whose photos were posted on the cover, 80% of the male sex, but therefore on the cover of the TV guides in both weeks in 100% of the cases are women, actresses, singers, guides, models. Of the 381 people interviewed, 78% are men. Women are showing this analysis far less visible in the areas in which they operate. Other articles in these weeks reveal that women are written more if their actions are related, or suggest prostitution, sexuality, appearance, or controversial behavior. In 2009, local elections were held for the selection of members and members of municipal and city councils, as well as the county congregations and city halls of Zagreb, as well as mayors and mayors, mayors and mayors and municipal mayors and mayors. An analysis of the candidate lists of election results according to the gender of candidates and candidates showed that women's representation was significantly lower than 40%, and the list promoters did not take into account gender equality, i.e. equal representation of women and men on the lists. Thus, the sub-representation of women among elected members and members of representative bodies, selected holders and holders of executive authorities is the consequence of the unfair representation of women on the lists. Progress compared to 2005 is visible but it is evident that when drawing up the list, the applicants did not pay attention to the equal representation of women and men on the lists. The picture of gender equality that we have received in this report does not differ from the trends faced by other European countries. According to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development report, discrimination against women during the transition has increased as the pay gap between men and women is higher, in the private sector women with children are harder to hire, while social services are less. It all affected women’s health and reduced their well - being. In some transition countries, women also have difficulty accessing finance, as local banks tend to or do not approve loans to women entrepreneurs at all. In view of the above, the HSS Club agrees with the Ombudsman's recommendations and must take effective measures related to the position of women, especially in the labour market, as well as the prevention of domestic violence, including psychosocial treatment of perpetrators, and systematic education for human rights and non-violent communication, as well as strengthening the position of co-ordinators and co-ordinators in state administration bodies and at local and regional level, i.e. regional self-government, with a view to more systematic and effective implementation of legal provisions on promoting gender equality and strategies on protection against domestic violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53982	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the distinguished representative of Danica Hurs, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53983	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam Attorney, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of my debate on the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality, I would like to say that gender equality is the principle to be adopted as a fundamental principle of conduct in all activities. THE report shows that such adoption has progress but is more than insufficient, so we still have to say that it remains largely practical and formal. The report is detailed, that a number of examples from which good solutions should be used as a pattern, for future times, and negative solutions and consequences as an area of intensive preventive work. I'll just look back on some areas of the report. First, and an extremely important area is employment and work. Statistics show that at the end of December there were 291 thousand 545 unemployed, 56.6% of whom are women, which is 10.2% more than in December 2008. The highest percentage of unemployed women is located in a age group of 50 to 54 years, or that is 15.3% of what we really hold with one alarming data and a great difficulty. In 2009, a total of 118 thousand 286 persons were employed, of which for an indefinite period of time only 17 thousand 186 persons, or 14.5% and at a certain time 101 thousand 100 persons or 85.5%. The share of women in the number of unspecified employees is 55.4%, and for a certain time slightly less than 60%. The report found that a greater share of women among unemployed and underpaid sectors remains. More rarely progress at work, more women work on a contract for a certain time, women are mostly harassed at the workplace based on sex, there is a clear horizontal and vertical segregation between men and women. Women are still double burdened with their work outside the house and within the family. A significant improvement in the labour market has already been mentioned and is visible in respect of the provisions of the Labour Advertising Act aimed at eliminating discrimination in employment but still a strong division of male and female occupations at the level of secondary and higher education is reflected in the labour market. Discrimination in the field of employment and labour is present in the private sector, in the public sector including state bodies. A few words about the draft labour law. I remind you that the draft labour law was on our benches at the 15th regular session of this House of Commons. The Ombudsman addressed its amendments to this law aimed at achieving real protection against discrimination and reducing the discriminatory effect of the contract on work for a certain period, especially on women, and even more specifically on those amendments to pregnant women. I'm going to highlight the attorney general's closing statement from that part because we at HSU really support this. Therefore, the Advocate-General, who says that her remarks to the Labour Act have not been adopted and that new amendments and additions to the Law on the work of the Ombudsman are possible, recommends that these observations be taken into account in the adoption of these amendments and additions, in particular because, under the Law on the protection of pregnant women and women who are breast-feeding, it is not sufficiently ensured when it comes to the safety of their return to the relevant jobs after the application of their rights. As well as since it considers it necessary to introduce additional insurance in respect of provisions relating to the Treaty of employment for a certain period of time, that work on indefinitely would indeed become a fundamental form of employment in our country. The report further discusses the analysis of the implementation of anti-discrimination legal provisions and measures to establish gender equality through the general acts of the unit of local self-government. The current situation is not satisfactory, so recommendations have been made in terms of improving the situation in this area, and we in HNS are also in favour of this recommendation. I also mention the area of the family, so I'll say a few words and sentences about domestic violence. We've heard today, but it's so awful it's worth it again. Croatia records a dramatic rise in violence against women with the most severe consequences, death, abused women. Over the 12 months of the past year, the hands of violent family members most often suffered as many as 21 women, which means that every 17 days, colleagues and colleagues, this information brought me astoundingly, so I will repeat it. So every 17 days someone's wife, mother, daughter, lost their lives because society and the system didn't stop a family bully in time, so he, with their blessing, turned into a murderer. If compared to the year before, the number of victims was almost doubled, 11 women were killed in 2008. In addition to 21 women in the family last year, 7 male subjects were killed, which means that the total number of victims of family murders climbed to 28. In only two of these 28 murders, the perpetrators were women, one wife, one daughter, and 26 times the perpetrators were men, in 13 cases husbands, in 3 cases father, in 4 cases son, and in 6 cases other close male relatives. How alarming the increase in the death toll due to domestic violence that the system failed to prevent or stop, it shows that in 2009 there were 49 murders in Croatia, which means that the women killed by the thugs in their family account for 43% of all the victims of last year's murders. Therefore, effective action on the prevention of domestic violence is necessary, necessary and must indeed be a continuous process to which we are bound by a national strategy which has not received the expected results in the last year of application. In the field of education, I will only mention some elements or trends. The highest balance in the number of students and students is in the areas of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, veterinary and personal services. The trend of constant women's growth in the total number of graduate students can be seen in the area of agriculture, forestry and fisheries. The biggest change over 4 years is seen in the field of services, social care for 9.6% more men record, social sciences where 7.6% more women, agriculture, forestry and fisheries are 6.5% more women, 5% more men's transport services, and engineering and engineering crafts are 4.9% more women. Significant growth in social care services, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, and engineering and engineering crafts can be marked by a positive trend given the deficited number of women in these areas. The difference that occurred during the four-year period further deepened the gap in the areas of social science and transport services. The difference mentioned can be characterised as a negative trend, given that the percentage of the deficit sex continues to decrease, thus deepening the gap in both genders' representation in the fields of studies both in higher universities and in the field of employment. A few words about the media. Despite the fact that the media played an important role in the awareness of the public that violence against women is morally, ethically and finally legally inadmissible, it is clear that much has not yet been done. It is the media that is a public place that has great opportunities to prevent violence, and these opportunities still need to be encouraged and exploited. It is still underrecognizable that prejudices about men and women as well as sexists who constantly appear in the media are mostly discriminated against by women. Given the strength and impact of the media in promoting social values and creating a position, the way media content shows women and men can be one of the key factors in promoting and strengthening social awareness of gender equality, and preventing and eliminating gender-based discrimination, including violence against women. The media is obliged to respect national and international laws and regulations that regulate their obligation to promote gender equality and remove stereotypes, sexisms and offensive and humiliating ways of showing women and men in the media regardless of their social status. It is important again and again that the promotion of awareness of the equality of men and women is a legal obligation of the media based on the Constitution and the Law on electronic media. It's like a reminder of how our public public television works. Namely, the Croatian Radio and Television Programme Council submitted a report in 2009. This report by all parliamentary committees assessed the lack of work of our national television in this regard. A few words about women's representation in local elections. Here's the lawyer who told us that there were still a small number of selected women in the local elections on the candidate lists and later on in the selected section. Although the overall average of selected women among all candidates and candidates for all representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government has increased from 10.7% to 15.5%, and after these local elections, compared to men and women are not equally present in public life. I will conclude that we from the HNS Club, HSU, will support all the proposals made by the lawyer in terms of improving the situation in this area. And allow just one more personal thought at the end. So it's very simple thinking where I say, how many times and do we even wonder what the world would look like and what would happen if all people like me or any of you were colleagues and colleagues. Whether or not we want to be aware of the fact that our personal diversity is wealth, wealth in every sense. That diversity of days is like a gift to me, to you. How do we treat that gift? I think and hold, if we do, we'll reduce discrimination on the part of this knowledge and discrimination is on the move. Finally, MPs and representatives of the Croatian People's Party Club and Retirement Party will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53984	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative, Carmela Caparin, on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53985	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected lawyers for gender equality, state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the prosecutor's report on gender equality, and it is indeed a very extensive report on very extensive analyses, on extensive recommendations, relying on gender equality laws, as well as on national gender equality policy, or strategy. A number of cases have been processed and their subjects processed in the report relate to a material violation of the principle of gender equality or discrimination based on sex, marital or family status and sexual orientation and gender identity and expression. 919 cases were processed, 34 of which were transferred from earlier years. A number of cases were also received following complaints from citizens and citizens, of which 195 in relation to women 68.9%, men 20.5%, groups of women 6.7, groups of men 0.7, one and other 3.2%. Lawyers appear from all over Croatia, and most of all from Zagreb 37.4% which tells us the same thing. Citizens and citizens' complaints in 2009 damaged 56.2% of women in 2009 and 20.1% of men in the initiative of the damaged party. The field of discrimination on labour and employment suggests forms of discrimination against harassment 37.7%, sexual harassment almost 20%, violation of the right to the protection of motherhood 10% and the rest of 30.3% and come from public administration and defence, compulsory social security, education, health care, social care, processing industry, retail trade, hotels, restaurants still as you remember in the list. In 2009, indeed 291 thousand 545 unemployed persons were registered, 56.65% of whom are women. The largest number of women are located in a age group of 50 to 54 years or 15.3% when in today's times of crisis, in this global recession, work is hard to find in the world, let alone in our transition country. It is further reiterated that women in the oppressed sector are less advanced in work, more women work under contract for a certain time, are mostly disturbed at the workplace based on sex, are twice burdened with their work outside the house and within the family, move to a less paid job or in a qualification of inadequate employment, make it impossible to advance compared to the male sex, etc. The report shows that there is still poor information and sensitisation of workers and workers for the problem of protection of dignity. There are still stereotypes of male and female jobs in kindergartens and schools, despite a warning in the National Policy to promote gender equality since 2006d on 2010. They're different structures in education. In the field of medicine and health from year to year, there is an increase in the share of women's sex and we can almost say that medicine is feminized. Science doctors in technical professions are men 66 to 80%, in natural sciences women are 58 to 73%. Looking back on maternity leave, it is evident that the maternity leave of the 43rd day of the child’s life was used only 0.6% of fathers and 146 fathers compared to 26 thousand 997 mothers who used that leave. The extended maternity leave for a pre-born child was used by only 1.1% of fathers and 9 fathers, respectively, compared to the 838 mothers who used it. It is necessary to work on raising public awareness of the importance of sharing family tasks and obligations between men and women in order to avoid discrimination against women on the labour market and to avoid involvement in political and social activities, which is very pronounced with us, especially in smaller rural areas. In an analysis of the general acts of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, the introduction of anti-discrimination legal provisions and measures to establish gender equality, it is clear that further efforts should be made to see the real role of the local community in the conduct of gender equality in all activities, with the further education of all gender equality workers. The lawyer's report refers to domestic violence and police work based on complaints. In 2009, police proposed a total of 11 thousand 752 safeguard measures, which is 19.5% higher than in 2008. Indeed, it commends the work of the police in its report, after all that has been done to combat domestic violence, from protocol to action and everything else. There's been an increase in the number of female murder victims killed by members of their family. In 2008, there were 11 such cases, and in 2009, as many as 21 women were killed by family members. 43% of all murder victims are women killed by family members. We still have a large number of undeclared domestic thugs because a woman fears for her safety, especially in smaller rural areas. According to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, victims of domestic violence are not provided with free legal assistance in criminal or criminal proceedings because the perpetrators are being prosecuted under official duty, and criminal prosecution is being taken over by the State Attorney's Office or the Police and women feel unprotected and truly insecure because of their appearance without lawyers. In the period from 1 January to 31 December 2009, a total of 49 murders and 153 attempted murders were recorded at the level of the Croatian Ministry of Interior. 28 crimes were committed among family members. In 13 cases, the unsub is the victim's husband, in four cases, the unsub is a son, and in three cases, the perpetrator is the father. In one case, the perpetrators were the wife and daughter, while in six cases the perpetrator was someone from a rope family, either an uncle or an uncle or someone else. The Family Protection Act allowed statistical monitoring of a certain form of violence, which should indeed be analysed in the following reports and a better picture would be given. On 15 September 2005, the government adopted a protocol on the conduct of domestic violence and the obligations of competent authorities involved in detecting and combating violence and providing assistance and protection to persons exposed to domestic violence. So, legal regulations, protocol, absolutely all right. There's always a problem with implementation on the ground. Reports related to domestic violence agree with data collected from police, from welfare centres and judicial authorities, and almost never from education and gender equality committees that we have at the level of all counties. Clearly, these commissions must work more and better. The co-ordinators and co-ordinators in the offices of the state administration react unfortunately only after the attorney's inquiry and after long-term insistence, as in many cases, the same case, is seen in the report from the commission, where on several occasions a report cannot be obtained, particularly regrettable of this activity in the county headed by the woman. We believe that at local level, there is still not enough work to raise awareness of the problem of domestic violence, as a community problem, despite all the laws and national strategies adopted against domestic violence in the family from 2008 to 2010. Analysis of women and men's representation in the field of education suggests that in secondary schools there is a disproportionateness in the sexual structure, industrial and crafts schools, in the highest number of 65% of students in art schools, in high school there are a large majority of students, 70-75% of colleges are enrolled in women, more than men and they end it more often and more, as you heard and previously completed a PhD of science in the field of natural science again more women, doctors of science, men of many in technical sciences. In the media that we've looked forward to here today, unfortunately there are still forms of sexism, the HRT report shows us the same thing. The HRT provides ads that have messages of truly socially unacceptable behaviour towards women, women are treated sexually as part of the transfer from individual sports events in HTV programmes, etc. Unfortunately, the Croatian Radio-Television Educational Centre organised a workshop, unfortunately, because the workshop was not attended by employees of Croatian Radio-Television, and the lecturers were Mrs. Attorney-General from the Government's Office for Gender Equality. And now we expect the needy people to carry out imbalances and laws on public television. On public television, mostly on the subject of the economy are men, while women experts are very, very rarely on such shows, you won't find them. When it comes to defenders, someone show the show when it comes to lawyers in the Homeland War. Did the Homeland War defender ever mention that she had post-traumatic stress disorder, did her family get sick? There's nothing on Croatian television about it. The media often showed that a successful politician must be iron, there must be a man's voice, it's usually analyzed as she's dressed, whether she's wearing a brooch, what kind of bag that politician is wearing, and I haven't seen a single time to criticize a man or to talk about what kind of tie a man has, what kind of suit, whether he's ironed, whether he has a line or not, or whether his pants are dragged down the road, whether he has an adequate shirt. Unfortunately, in 2009, there is no movement related to equal treatment or sportswoman in the media, the top results are not in the essence of interest, but still the female body is at the centre of interest, sexism is still present, describing the appearance of a athlete, whether she is wearing a high heel, whether she has a miniscule, long legs, and not her superior results. A survey of local elections in 2009 in this report in relation to gender equality principles and representation of women selected among all candidates points again to a lack of women at local level, although we do have an increase from 10.7 to 15.5, but unfortunately the number of women from the county councils, through city to municipal councils, has been reduced to 21.4% in the county councils of the city councils 20.7 and at least in the municipal councils of 12.2%. All this tells us how little women are involved in political and even social life, especially women in smaller environments, and I think we should really work harder to involve women in our rural areas of the Republic of Croatia. These women have been neglected by us in some way, and little is said that women are, in a smaller case, owners of agricultural land, owners of other properties. Many of the activities of the attorney general have indeed been in the past, it is seen from the report that she has walked in the field, throughout our country, outside the country at conventions, that she has tried to re-activate the commissions, and that is really good, since everything has other legal powers, perhaps in a smaller form, but that is why they have other institutions. However, here is the Croatian Democratic Community club that will accept your report. As a club, we got a letter that's here with a little dysgression about the situation in your office,... It points to some mobbing, so I'm asking you to tell us about it, and explain, namely, it's a letter about the lack of personnel, about a number of lawyers who have been on sick leave for a long time and haven't come to work. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53986	Thank you. That concludes the club debate, we move on to an individual debate. And she is the first respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. And I'm taking the opportunity to say that at 11 o'clock and 16 minutes, the time of the ten-minute hearing has ended. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53987	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed lawyers for gender equality, colleagues and colleagues. Where we are today at the end of the first decade of the 21st century with equality, not just gender, but equality at all. Croatia brought to the brink of a deep crisis has serious problems with the equality of each species. The report, which has one conclusion, says that the measures that were to be implemented were obviously not largely implemented, were not implemented until the end, it is hoped that they will be implemented by the end of this year. Gender equality when we see this report is a worrying, or level of this equality. What is the role of the ruling in this? So the lawyer does what she can, which is her job, which we have given her powers, can they be bigger about it, too, seriously, but what is the message of the authorities regarding gender equality? When a minister, please, and this Minister of Health goes to a representative with a variety of illusions, what kind of message is that to the citizens? What kind of message is that to a small craftsman who then says women should be beaten like I'm not quoting what he said, what did the lawyer find, and why are we surprised by this report, these bizarre and horrible things that happen, women of ordinary women, when the minister sends such a message to the opposition. And why does she do it, because she wasn't obedient, because she dared to criticize him. Because that's the answer. What we're going to talk about when the power of the woman's body really treats as a polygon to demonstrate its power. When it adopts a Law which is directly opposed to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. This law is in direct contrast with the Law on Medical Insemination of the International Convention, which has a special provision that says that the Member States are signatories, and we are thank God, in this predicate, and then we boast that we have signed something, but that any of our obligations are in the implementation, not only the adoption of the Law but also the principle of implementation comes to us as an obligation, it is not on our mind. So, it's that hypocrisy of government and society, we'll sign it but who cares. So, in this law, women are subjected to painful treatment, in direct contrast to this mentioned convention, which prohibits such forms, while imposing on each member state signatories, that, in particular, on the reproductive rights of a man, especially on his own when it comes to women, all modern technological achievements that are least burdensome for a woman, but our minister chose the most difficult way for a woman. Modern European countries often have these issues because they are particularly sensual and should be observed in such a way, include more women and experts and politicians themselves, while men stand on the sidelines while these are the problems. But he's a macho minister. The main problem of all the troubles that women in the Republic of Croatia are experiencing here today are some of them who have petrified them as vulnerable groups. They are very resilient given the beatings and blows of every species they experience. How come a woman doesn't have a job and there's no end to a woman's work? What she was going to do was hit the most by women themselves, abolish the provisions of the Labour Act and abolish the collective contract, because she can't agree with the unions, then fine collective agreements will put her out of effect. You can imagine what will then happen in general to our employment that will be absolutely left at the mercy of employers, and in what position women workers will be in it is not difficult to imagine at all. So, the economic exploitation of the Croatian worker and, above all, the woman, is something that raises the question of the achievement of any other right, any rights guaranteed by our law, the European international conventions remain a mere letter on paper. What kind of state is it when she can't ensure child restraint leaves a child left to care for herself, whether she's got a job, what the employer of that woman is doing, and that's where the state finds itself powerless. And when a child can't protect her, so who can she even protect and whom she provides help and protection. It's obvious to those who send shameless ads to large companies that insult women's dignity, generally and men, man's dignity. But they're still on our highway, still adorning the panorama of our cities, what she was talking about on behalf of the SDP Club, our colleague Gordana Sobol. It's horrible things, but the state is weak to them, but you see where she's strong. What is the solution to all this and all the troubles that this dramatic increase in violence is taking place against women, because all the members of the men's families have come upon women, even brothers. So far it's been standard for her partners, whether married or out of wedlock, even for younger women, so when it comes to their adolescent relationships. Why is that? Women who were exploited, not just women working in chains, but equally in college, we see this one defeating picture. What men do to scientists so they don't get past them and it's just a delusion and a stereotype that they're more exposed to the violence of every kind of less educated woman. We see that women become a more educated part of our society but still cannot fight not only for their position, but to preserve first and foremost their honor and their dignity. And that's all because of the worse economic position. And what the state could do here is, all these measures are good, and those that were proposed by the attorney and something that we all agreed on, which we passed, that everyone here has criticised why the law is not fully respected. But until women are economically strengthened, while the government doesn't really have a figurines in the pocket partner relationship in the family, which means that men must be more privately engaged but that must be done in a legal obligation. Men have to participate in raising children, not today. And that's what experts tell us, not just from the mere equality and for the welfare of children, but that in such families where a man participates in household affairs, where a man participates in raising children from the earliest age, there are no extreme situations in such a family. And the simple state must prescribe binding norms in which a man must go on maternity leave, must participate in family life, in raising a child, because it is good for the family, for the life of a child for the life of a nation as a whole. And one more thing Norway has regulations that now the pilot program will out of the register, so from the court register, delete those companies that don't have 50% of the leading women in the management structures. And with us, we're content to complain here about the fate of women because one says, "I'm sorry, employer, I only hire students." So it's an obligation state she has mechanisms to end it. But it's obvious she's not answering that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53988	Thank you. We have a few corrections of incorrect allegations, the first is the distinguished representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53989	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In a series of incorrect allegations, I would correct one that would cover all of this. She says that gender equality levels are alarming, stressing that. So don't speak to us arguing. If it compares with all other European countries, except Scandinavian countries, other than Norway, which really cannot be compared economically and in that part with the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is not going anywhere. We have a legislative framework, like all Western European countries, of the Law on Equality, of the National Strategy, of the Anti-discrimination Law, and it is all up to us to implement the maximum support of the Government, by the Office for Gender Equality from the Advocate General for Gender Equality. And besides, in this report, the D.A.'s office has not stated anywhere that it is a worrying situation in relation to gender equality. In fact, she spoke about the positive results of all the ministries that work and what should be done further, given the national strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53990	Thank you. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here is Agent Antičević stating some facts that are not true, for example. Our minister has chosen the most difficult model for women. Furthermore, it is the hypocrisy of government and state, which we are surprised at this report. This is all incorrect, Mrs Antičević, precisely because the Government of the Republic of Croatia is aware of the facts of the existence and violence in the family and behavioural disturbances in children and young people, and according to such situations, it has brought a particularly difficult form of violence amongst children and young people, according to the preventive programmes of the national strategy. However, I must also tell you that you point out that women need to be strengthened, but I will also say this during the time that you were a minister and you didn't set up a gender equality office unlike us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53992	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53993	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague of Antičević-Marinović's made several incorrect allegations. I'll look back at two. One of those that Croatia was brought to the edge of the break-in. That's not true. Croatia has been brought to the European Union threshold. And the second you said that the power of the woman's body treats her as a polygon to demonstrate her power, and that's not that I wouldn't have used her incorrectly, even a more difficult word. But in some ways, I'm really thinking about the kind of professional issues you're talking about with which you're not qualified. Well, we heard two days ago what the profession said about these issues of medical insemination. But you're also talking about hypocrites, so please let's give it a nice try when we speak so openly when you've abolished the birth benefits that this has contributed to women. But then out of that voice the sense was not, and 10 grand was less pregnant in that period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53994	And we have one replica, the distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53995	Thank you very much. My colleague Anticevic, I agree that women are discriminated against. Not only in Croatia, but throughout the world. If evil was measured in total, then statistics show that more than 90% of the evil done in the world was done by men and only 10% by women. In only four days once in America, 150 banks failed, and no woman was at the head of the bank. 13 banks collapsed in Croatia and no women were at the head of the bank. It's just that I've been known to investigate these cases of financial fraud and malfeasance, only one case is known in Germany when an actress ended up in a long-term prison in 1860. But I would not agree that the state is looking helplessly at all this, because it is discrimination and abuse of women that even shows up on the case of the Prime Minister. It's very rude and primitive to call anyone except by name and last name. And I haven't heard a reaction from a woman's association or a club's association or any institution. The government can't react to jumbo posters where the woman is shown for the ad car tire and writes "Agreable to all the bases". It is the shame of the whole state, but the shame of those who do so first and who invent and create such decisions, and then those who publish. The government can't react to the jamo poster "Best in bed" you drive along the highway, so look at every mile of that one discriminatory message, there's a sad message we have to watch every day and tourists coming. The government cannot react when the directors of Croatia have to come from lunch drunk about 7.8 p.m. to the company, the women of the sector have to wait for them until they arrive. The government can't react when they call at 10:00 p.m. that you have to prepare something in the morning at 6:00 p.m. and that's why they're not paid. But what you can react to can make the judiciary more effective, that no man can happen, no man pays child support because those who don't pay child support is the place in prison. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53996	Thank you very much. Please stick to all the time so I don't have to warn. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53997	Well, I'm glad my colleague Maric basically apostrophe something that scandals every normal man. However, I disagree that the state and government cannot react. Sure, but it won't. There are ways to contain such persons. After all, we have brought about just when we were able to unfortunately our colleague Klaric has no idea about it, that we have passed the Law on the Protection of Family Violence, the Law on Gender Equality, introduced institutions and a whole series, because until then even in the Penal Code, women were not protected from beatings but in one indirect way if husband beats, or partner, and most often he beats children or beats her in front of children. So it was then that the children were protected. She wasn't protected at all. So we had some monster stuff, which your colleague Klaric doesn't know about, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53998	My colleagues, please stay in line for a while. You can't talk to MPs and MPs like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u53999	You didn't hear what happened before.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54000	You can't stick to order. ... [[Speakers speaking in the same voice do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54001	I can use the right to self-help that you're on your own. .../Speakers speak in the same voice, not understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54002	You can't. ... Peace. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ms. Representative Karolina Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54003	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Attorneys, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to look back at two parts of the attorney general's report on gender equality that I find extremely important. I don't have enough time to look at the entire content of the report that's extensive and well structured. Here I have chosen two areas that I consider extremely important. It's work and employment and media. Why do I think that work and employment and the media are extremely important areas, I will try to point out some of the examples and arguments that you have just done in your report. I believe that women's labour rights are certainly the most endangered today, and I don't really know if they are harder for women who are not employed, so those who are not economically independent and emancipated, are therefore harder for young women who will soon graduate this year and if they don't continue schooling, if, for example, they went to vocational schools, find themselves on the labour market, and they probably won't have a chance to find a job because we know that in Croatia the very high percentage of young people who have finished high school can't, unfortunately, find a job fast after schooling. So it is certain that young women who come to the labour market and who are not familiar with their rights are not informed about how to address whom to exercise their rights is extremely difficult. It's just as difficult for women who have lost their jobs in years when they're very hard to employ, so if they're more than 45, 50, if they're working for example. in the textile industry or even in the store, it's very difficult to actually requalify, it's very difficult to isolate the means to perfecte and be able to find work on in this ruthless environment that is very competitive and that actually requires constant improvement and constant work on itself. And unfortunately, in Croatia, there are not enough programs for these categories and women and men who are no longer, as this neoliberal dictionary says, competitive on the labour market. Nothing is less difficult or less difficult, however, nor is it easier for women who work, which is precisely what it warns in many parts of the report and the Ombudsman, and in this context, I would like to say that it would be interesting to see that the economic measures proposed by the prime minister, or proposed by the prime minister's advisers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia took care of gender equality, whether the measures proposed were actually neutral or they favoured one sex or members of only one sex. I think that this analysis would be very interesting and I would actually like to hear from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the prime minister and how she took care of gender equality when she was bringing economic recovery measures. The lawyer addressed amendments to the Labour Act, as colleagues have already spoken. I find that extremely important and very valuable suggestions. Unfortunately, these amendments were not accepted although, as stated in the Ombudsman's report, they focused on achieving real protection against discrimination and the reduction of discriminatory effects, especially when it comes to the conclusion of a work contract at a specified time and in this context, particularly when it comes to pregnant women. I would say that, in the case of a contract on the work of the Ombudsman, there were objections which concerned only the conclusion of a contract on work and its duration, i.e. I am talking about a fixed-term contract and the renewal of such contracts, and it was in fact warning of the provisions in the draft law that miss the meaning of Directive 1999/70/EC, which regulates the Institute of Labour for a certain period of time, because this directive lays down the working contract for an indefinite period of time as a fundamental and general way of working relationship. In this regard, the Ombudsman specifically pointed out that there is an exceptional problem in Croatia with the use of a fixed time contract that colleagues have already mentioned today, and here in 2008 alone, according to the Croatian Employment Service, more than 81% of the newly signed contracts were contracts for a certain period of time and we know that women are the most women they have to, forced to conclude contracts for a certain period of time. And such an arrangement directly affects women's difficult positions, especially pregnant women and mothers who need to be protected from abuse of work contracts for a certain period of time. It should therefore be kept in mind the economic and social position of workers and workers working for a certain period of time and of course the overall economic situation in which Croatia is presently located. The Ombudsman also warned of problems encountered by pregnant women or women who are breast-feeding in relation to the conclusion of work contracts under changed conditions that are not actually protected by pregnant women or women who are breast-feeding. And since we are likely to be dealing again soon with the amendments to the Labour Act, I hope that this will be an opportunity for these amendments proposed by the Advocate General to be reconsidered and to ask whether there is a possibility of a better, better quality and in accordance with the acquis of the European Union, so as to amend the Labour Act in order to bring our legislation into line with the European Union directives. The Ombudsman also analysed collective agreements that were recently discussed by counterpart Antičević-Marinović, and she came to the realization that a total of 21 collective agreements contained principled provisions on gender equality, prohibitions of discrimination and protection of dignity, and these are mostly provisions on mandatory protection of dignity under the Labour Act. But out of that number, very few of them have such provisions as set out in the basic provisions of the collective agreement itself, but these collective agreements that have such provisions in basic provisions are also examples that work out the very theme of protecting dignity and develop some new ideas and systems in collective bargaining. I would like to say that the most complex in the field of regulating the protection of dignity and the very process of protection is a collective contract for employees in high school institutions that regulates a very complex protection mechanism. In this context, I would like to say that I also believe that there is room for a special session of the Economic and Social Council to deal with the position of women on the labour market and possible contributions from women's labour force or women on the labour market, improving the economic situation in Croatia. And in fact, this way I would also like to invite the social partners to question the possibility of organising such a session at which women in the labour market and prevailing... in the employment of women and the exercise of fundamental human rights, the right to work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to take a brief look at the media that we have talked about today and are always on the agenda when it comes to gender equality, because they are of course extremely important to create images of equal opportunities for women and men in gender equality, especially because they have a great impact on young people. So we live in a media-mediated reality, and we can’t care how human dignity is spoken of, that is, about the dignity of a woman. We talk very often about public media, of course it is in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, but we cannot look back on private media, commercial television in Croatia, which I also find to be harshly violating the provisions of the law, and I call on the competent agency and the Council for Electronic Media to monitor closely and react and to sanction such behaviour in a certain way. I believe that it is an extremely important note by the Advocate General about the need for gender-sensitive budgets, gender-sensitive budgets, both at the state level and at local and regional self-government levels, and I am sure that we will have many more opportunities to talk in this context, especially when the next budget is therefore adopted. Let me also briefly refer to the fatherly and motherly leave that we also heard about today, so I am familiar with the union's proposal, that when the future Law on maternity and parental support is amended, care is taken into account for the introduction of a new terminology, which is therefore mother leave and father leave in order to establish relations between, establish equal opportunities for the labour market, and in accordance with European Commission directives. So, trade unions suggest a termological distinction between mother and father leave, and they also propose mandatory use of father leave for at least 2 weeks, 10 working days, which father would have to use no later than the third year of his child's life. This would allow the young family a certain period of time to adapt to the new circumstances, establish relations between parents and children, and, in the case of the birth of children and men and women, to an equal extent, take risks on the labour market. The employer would know that a man will also be obliged to use paternity leave in the event of the birth of a child, thus improving the position of women on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54004	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54005	Thank you very much. Honorable attorneys, state secretary, co-workers and colleagues. This is before us now the seventh Ombudsman's report on gender equality, and its greatest value is actually that it contains indeed one wealth of systematicized data per sex, in all possible areas and really represents an excellent basis for an analysis of the current situation, but also those achievements in gender equality. And just given that width and the number of areas, I'm going to limit myself to only two areas, one has not been recorded any changes in relation to a number of previous reports, and one area where the situation changes significantly, and fortunately for the better and represents a significant step I'm going to say so towards greater gender equality. In the right case, it is the use of maternity leave, which was said by a colleague for a short time. So it's an area where the order of things doesn't change at all or change really small steps. For example, although the Law on maternity and parental assistance that came into effect from 1 January 2009, that is precisely the year for which this report is submitted, it establishes the right to parental leave, and parental support as the personal right of both parents, thus concessing by promoting an equal division of parental responsibility. In practice, however, these rights are mostly used only by mothers. I'll back it up with some data. Thus, the maternity leave of 43 days of a child's life is used only 0.6% of fathers, extended maternity leave for a pre-born child is used by 1.1% of fathers, and the additional maternity leave from the first to the third year of the child's life is used by 4.2% of the fathers until the first year of the child's life. So despite this legal opportunity for fathers to use maternity leave, they still do very rarely. And it is obvious that the division of gender roles is still very strong, so women are still seen as responsible for family and spheres of private life, and therefore they have a lot to do with the unpaid work, while men are destined for the public sphere and, of course, for paid work. And the women, I'd be a little picturesque, they'd be very happy to replace those three corners in the house, or one would be left to the men, so that they're equally both holding two corners in the house. But I'll say it's not just stereotypes why men use maternity leave in such a small percentage. Definitely the reason for that and the fact, which in itself again represents a kind of inequality, that men earn more than women and it's logical and it's a matter of home economy that then men continue to work and that women actually stay on maternity leave. The consequence of such gender stereotypes is an unequal division of household and family obligations, and we have heard something about it today, which is one of the main reasons for discrimination against women on the labour market and one of the main reasons for their limited social and political involvement, and this is exactly what I will say more about the political involvement of women, with the introduction that I have already pointed out that there are certain positive changes, but they are certainly still far from the objectives set out. I will try to illustrate this by comparing the results achieved in the 2009 local elections, compared to the results achieved in 2005. This comparison shows that women’s representation in representative bodies has indeed increased at all levels. In county congregations from 13.6 to 21.4%, in city councils from 14.5 to 20.7%, and in municipal councils from 8.6 to 12.2%. The highest women in total, therefore for all representative bodies together, were elected in the city of Zagreb 37.3% and at least in Zadar County 9.7%. I note that the average for Croatia is 15.5% Here I will now take the opportunity to say with satisfaction that after last year's local elections, women in the County Assembly are represented by almost 40% and in municipal and city councils 18.5%. Now, unlike increasing representation in the executive government, there is unfortunately no progress. Since, in the meantime, a change in the way of elections for executive power, as we know in 2005, we had an indirect election in 2009 of direct elections, we can say that this change ultimately had no significant impact on the overall representation of women in the executive government. In 2005, 5% of women were elected at the top of the post, and in 2009. 4.9%, so almost the same. However, something has changed, and unfortunately worse. As the level of executive authority rises, the share of women decreases. And so in 2005, we had 10% of the mayor, now we have 5%, so right now we only have one mayor in Sisak-Moslavina County. We had the mayor in 2005. 9.9% and now 4.8%, as we know, the mayor of Zagreb was a man in both terms. However, the number of directly elected chiefs has increased from 3.4 to 4.9%. So we can say that the representation of women in the executive government is only increasing at the lowest level, so that municipal or cityal level. It is clear that under the representation of women among elected members or members of representative bodies and selected holders or executives, women are due to the unequal representation of women on the lists of candidates. It is clear that the applicants of the lists, these are the political sides when drawing up those lists, did not respect the requirement of the Law on Gender Equality, on equal representation of women and men on the lists, and this will not actually change more radically while penalties for non-compliance are symbolic and there is no elimination of such lists where this requirement is not satisfied. At least this will not change until the third election cycle as foreseen by the law, so until 2015 for parliamentary elections, i.e. until 2017 for local elections. In Croatia, unfortunately, there is another huge number of local environments where there are no women or representative authorities at all, let alone executives. This means that in these environments women do not decide at all on the spending of public money, whose creation and their own contribution, and therefore it is worrying that it is precisely at the local levels that the least women in representative and executive power are at. Because in my opinion, in the local environments, the most directly identify and detect the needs of all groups of citizens. Of course, the best needs of women are recognized by women themselves, and therefore it takes more women’s hands at local level to change the world to the extent that they form an integral part of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54006	Thank you. One correction by Mrs. Zastava Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I would refer to the debate of my colleague because in her debate she said that in Croatia still in the presence of a stereotype when it comes to maternity permits, because still in Croatia maternity leave is used by more women than men. That's not true first I'd call to use the leave of more mothers than fathers, and I don't think that and I don't think it's stereotyped because I don't think a father can ever replace a mother, a mother is more related to a child, and that child has to breastfeed and can't possibly replace a mother's father. It should remain for the decision of the family itself, that the family has their own space of decision, which is better for the family. And I am also correcting the assumption that in the City of Zagreb, the mayor is already in two terms, i.e. a man, but it is true that you SDPs have just chosen and run for office in the City of Zagreb, so he is your mayor as well as I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54008	Okay. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. She's gone. Ms. Representative Mirela Holy. She's not losing her right to a word. Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Stjepan Adanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54009	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, here's one brief little clarification in a few seconds so there won't be any possible misunderstandings. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, as I have said, has studied this report in detail and is not against this Report, and has also not only taken it into consideration, but has specifically given its opinion which I have given you in the opening part in detail. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not against the report but has only given its opinion on the Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54010	Thank you. And final review by the Advocate General for Gender Equality Mrs Gordane Lukač Koritnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54011	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. First of all, I thank you for all your grades on this report. However, I must briefly refer to what the esteemed representative Carmela Caparin has said about the letter mentioned, whose content is unknown to me, here in her presentation in part, I must say that the information on the Office is in the report, that this has already been discussed by the Committee on Human Rights of this Assembly, therefore I consider it to be a pressure on the Parliament, on the very day of the defence of this Report, in order to possibly be politically decided rather than in the court proceedings. I also consider such actions to be a pressure on the court itself, because I, unlike them, do not comment on the court case, nor can I, unfortunately, present the facts that I have because I respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. I only have one counterindication about the alleged failure of the office, and that's this report. And about the ads that are mentioned here, I'd just like the information to work because it's pointed out and the actual thing is that I've taken all the steps, and there's a particular problem with one company. It is a member of a group based abroad in several European countries. And by reviewing their website the same product is advertised in Sweden as a product for a beautiful dream, without any sexism, without any destruction of the ethical code. But when they sell it in Croatia, they do it this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54012	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the 2009 report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality. She's a lawyer for gender equality. The debate is concluded in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies. I give the vote the conclusion, which reads: "A report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2009 is accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes. 95 votes for, nothing abstentions and one against. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The opinions, remarks, proposals tabled in the debate in the report, as well as proposals and recommendations made by the Ombudsman for gender equality are given in the report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is being submitted to take measures to make the work of competent and state authorities and bodies with public authority more effective." Let us please engage and vote on this proposal from the Committee on Human Rights. The result? This proposal by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities has been accepted by the majority of votes. 93 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54015	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on a request for authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Marijana Petir, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 31st session held on 19 May 2010 a letter from the Municipal Court in Kutina informing the Croatian Parliament that private prosecutor Marina Lovrić-Merzel of Sisak had filed a private suit against the representative Marijana Petir for the crime of slander under Article 200(2). Penalty law. Ms Marijana Petir is a representative of the 6th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and based on Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, no criminal proceedings may be conducted against it. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of this Regulation. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following decision: "In the course of the term of the parliamentary term, the approval for the launch of the criminal proceedings before the Municipal Court in Kutina is denied. In the case of K83/10 against Commissioner Marijana Petir on the private suit of prosecutor Marin Lovric-Merzel for the crime of slander referred to in Article 200(2). The Penal Code." The explanation is below.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54016	I'm opening a debate and I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This commission proposal was adopted unanimously, with 95 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54017	The next report is on a request for authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Slavko Linic, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 31st session held on 19 May 2010 the request of the attorney-in-chief of private prosecutor Tomislav Karamark of Zagreb for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Slavko Linić for the offence of the offense referred to in Articles 1 and 2 and the crime of slander referred to in Articles 200(1) and 2. Penalty law. Mr. Slavko Linić is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of this Regulation. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously, therefore with 8 votes in favour, proposed the next decision to the Croatian Parliament. "In the course of the term of the term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings before the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb against MP Slavko Linic following the private suit of Prosecutor Tomislav Karamark for the criminal offence referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of Article 1 and the defamation offence referred to in Article 200(1) and (2) shall be denied. The Penal Code."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54018	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's get involved and vote. We don't give ours. Score. This report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission was adopted unanimously by 97 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of this 18th session is on Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda of the Proposal for a Draft Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia whose proposal is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you, and I want you to have a nice rest these few days. Thank you. Please report to the mandate-immunity commission, please Mr. Damir Sesvecan to report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54020	Your Honor, we have two reports. The first report on the suspension of MP Ivo Jelusic's term of office and the termination of the post of deputy deputy representative Bruno Kurelic. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 32nd session held on 17 June 2010 the written request by Ivo Jelusic of 11 June 2010 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that the office of Deputy Mayor of the City of Zagreb had ceased to act on 11 June 2010 and in accordance with Article 13(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a request for the continuation of the parliamentary duties. The commission found that the resignation of Mr. Ivo Jelusic, elected on the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's 7th election unit, began on 11 January 2008 because of the incompatibility of acting as Deputy Mayor of the City of Zagreb with the responsibility of representatives in the Croatian Parliament pursuant to Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and that on the same day, his deputy Bruno Kurelić began acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. As Mr Ivo Jelusic complies with Article 13(1). The law on the election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal deadline of the Commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so that the rest of the parliamentary term of Ivo Jelusic ended 8 days after the day of submission of the application, and his deputy Bruno Kurelić ended on the same day. Following the mandate-immunity committee presented after the discussion was carried out, pursuant to Article 13 of the Law on Elections of Representatives and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the suspension of the term of office of representative and the termination of the office of deputy representative. On 19 June 2010, the term of office of MP Ivo Jelusic, deputy representative, Mr Bruno Kurelić, ceases on 19 June 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54021	I'm opening a debate on the proposal. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion to vote, please raise your hands. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This proposal by the mandate-immunity commission was adopted unanimously by 106 votes in favour. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54022	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Rules of Procedure were injured when voting on the Golf Law, the law was to be voted on by 77 votes to, therefore, half the majority of all MPs. An article that regulates the adoption of organic laws, i.e. the laws that enter into ownership, must be broken down by a half majority of all MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54023	Thank you. It's got nothing to do with this, we figured it out. This item of the agenda challenge the required number of votes, we have brought, please, you have everything at your disposal. Please continue with this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54024	The next report is on a request for authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Davor Huška zaspora in the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 32nd session held on 17 June 2010 the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Zdravko Ronko from Požega for the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against the representative Davor Huška for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law. Mr Davor Huška is the sixth representative of the Croatian Parliament, and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, it shall not be possible to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings against it. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of this Regulation. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following decision: "During the duration of the parliamentary term, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Agent Davor Huška on the private suit of Prosecutor Zdravko Ronko, for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 200(2) shall be denied. The Penal Code."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-28-0.u54025	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's for the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The result? This conclusion was accepted by the majority of 107 votes, 1 against, no abstentions. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all and especially welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Ministers present and members of the Government. And we move to the first item of the agenda that was announced when we interrupted the session nine, ten days ago that is - Proposal for a Draft Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Proposer: Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System is the Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System has proposed this act on the basis of point 2. Decisions concerning the accession of the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the provisions of Article 57(1), subparagraph 3 and 4. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. The chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and Vice President Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
