ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49862	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you, the Law on Incentives of Apartment Sales as one of the measures announced by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for reviving the economy but also to help people buy more favourable apartments on the market today and which are finished. You witnessed in the media where there was speculation about the number of these apartments. It's 8 grand, 10 grand, 13 grand. No analysis has been made except for the analysis that we did with the economic chamber in which we asked for an overview of how many of these apartments are on the market today and which the builders cannot sell and we have received 2 thousand 315 apartments that we believe should be put into sale as soon as possible and thus enable further construction. What I have to say is that today in Croatia, we have about 150 thousand people working in construction, whether in construction or as craftsmen or in the production of construction materials, and unfortunately, by now, about 15 thousand people have lost their jobs. The government therefore believes that they need to be helped as it helps other economic operators with those measures that you have discussed. And this means as the third measure that should be proposed, of course, which the Government is proposing to you and you will decide whether you will accept it and how. What is proposed in this law is that apartments that are built and which will receive or receive a useful permit until the adoption of this law can be sold by means of, between the buyer and the contractor in a way that appears, that the buyer chooses his own location, size of the apartment, bank where he will take credit because you know that there are great differences between certain banks and we here do not condition any of these things. So people choose for themselves, find an apartment, make a pre-contract, after which they confirm from the bank that they are creditworthy and that they can get credit, come to APN, APN will pay with the funds provided in the state budget the participation that we have proposed here and we have suggested that Croatia lends the purchasers of apartments that buy apartments up to a thousand euros per square metre of 300 euros per metre square metre. Then, between a thousand and one to a thousand 150 euros credits with 250 euros per square. Then, for the value of an apartment from a thousand 151 to a thousand 300 euros per square, a thousand 301 to a thousand 450 with 150 euros per square, and a thousand 451 to a thousand 600 euros with 100 euros per square. Therefore, that loan would be granted to people for 30 years. For 20 years, it's the wrong period in which customers will pay 2% of the interest and then those 10 years will pay off with a 5% interest. It's the same condition as in POS's apartments. You know that we haven't stopped with POS's apartments, that we're still doing them, that there's a big problem in local self-government units because local self-government units don't have the land that could provide for that construction. However, it goes further and this job is done neatly. The most disagreement with individual entities that have already reported on the law was why we say they should sell apartments by performers, so those who built those apartments, not some investors or agencies that exist today. We can't accept that agencies are selling these apartments because they charge 2% of the value of the apartment, which means that the apartment would be more expensive for people by 2%, the APN takes no cost and doesn't account for anything to do the job. The other thing is investors like the people of the HUP call them investors who are investors and who trust building objects to someone else. We have all the knowledge through the companies themselves and through their associations that these people who built such apartments owe a lot to the builders and that they simply don't have any guarantee that when they sell the apartment they'll pay for whoever did the work, and if it doesn't, the builders will be out of a job and of course we can't allow it. That's why we suggest it, so only performers can sell it. One more thing I would like to say is that the Croatian state normally cares about the housing in Croatia, that this year we have 985 million kuna in our budget for housing, which you know we do POS apartments, we do apartments for victims of the Homeland War, we build or buy, we build apartments or we buy apartments for former tenants. It is also a refurbishment and residential facilities in areas of special state care and it is also a housing savings provided from the budget each year, at an average of 250 million kuna. So these are funds that are otherwise invested by the Croatian state in the housing sector. This way we predicted that this year we could sell about 1000 apartments, for which 100 million kuna is foreseen, and therefore we think that it would allow people to buy apartments under more favourable conditions, but also builders that for those facilities that are finished, which have a useful license they can charge for and then start with new housing, because, as you know, we still need apartments in Croatia. There has been an observation that this will be particularly reflected, as well reflected in areas outside large cities, which is actually true because they are there in these areas, such as Osijek, Vinkovci, Sisak, Karlovac and the like, apartments are cheaper than in Zagreb and Split, and of course we are, since we said that we would only give such loans to those who buy apartments up to 1600 euros per square cent without VAT that these apartments are also in these areas. There are also in the edges of large cities, as well as those apartments that move in these prices, and I say but also in other parts of Croatia. Since we're doing the law for all of Croatia, we think it's just and there's no reason to say in Slavonia I can't buy these apartments under more favourable conditions and in some big city that I can buy it. And this law, let me just say, this law applies to those who first buy apartments or those who have small apartments. As you know, a lot of families bought small apartments, children were born, and of course they needed bigger apartments. If they sell that little apartment, they can buy a bigger apartment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49863	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49864	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Minister, fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament held its 36th session yesterday to discuss the proposal for a law on the promotion of the sale of apartments. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 75. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the short opening statement, it was pointed out that the proposed law aims to enable contractors or builders to start a new cycle by obtaining funds from the sale of apartments and thus to keep their capacities busy and thus to maintain a number of jobs. Thus, while preserving a number of jobs, it would be possible to buy flats for the first time or buy a larger apartment with state aid under more favourable credit conditions. The law is expected to encourage the sale of dwellings in order to overcome the adverse situation in housing by approving loans from state resources to assist in the purchase of the apartment to encourage the transport of apartments by 31 December 2011. The debate also held that because of the significantly higher prices of apartments in Zagreb, as well as in other major cities, the amount of loans will be significantly lower since it depends on the price of a square meter apartment whose price in larger cities is significantly higher than the price set out in the draft law. Part of the opinion committee is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should legally regulate other than selling apartments and renting apartments. Namely, since the intensity of the law is that potential buyers of apartments are younger people, means younger families who may not have the right to buy an apartment at the moment, but might be able to hire them and buy them to improve their creditworthiness, so, in the opinion of the board members, they would contribute to the sale of apartments and reduce the number of illegal tenants. During the debate, it has been pointed out repeatedly that the purpose of this law is to encourage housing in order to preserve workers' jobs in construction, as nearly 15,000 workers lost their jobs due to this unfavourable trend last year. In the debate, Commissioner Marina Dropulic answered a number of questions about future building of rental apartments, rental prices, often overpriced land prices, prices of newly built apartments in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, the state of construction as incentives for the construction or adaptation of family houses. After the debate, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the promotion of the sale of apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49865	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49866	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At its meeting on 17 March, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government discussed the proposal for a law on the promotion of the sale of dwellings as an interested working body. The debate supported the adoption of this law with the following opinions, objections and proposals. In the light of the solution proposed in Article 7(1) of the final proposal for a law, an opinion has been made whereby this provision should be complemented in order to establish that the loan may be granted in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down in this law in addition to the natural persons owned by them who do not have an apartment for their own purposes and to natural persons who do not own a house for the purposes of their own housing. In the light of the solution proposed by Article 8(1) of the final proposal, which provides that the loan is only granted for the purchase of a new apartment in a building for which the instrument for use has been issued until the date of entry into force of this law, an opinion has been given to which the time limit for issuing acts for use and which is the condition for granting loans under this law should be extended, i.e. to define in a way that those apartments in buildings already completed or before the completion of works on those buildings, and the buildings do not have an act to be used since, for example, for objective reasons of winter conditions, the builders could not carry out all the necessary works and which are the conditions for obtaining the instrument for use. In the light of the solution proposed in Article 8 of the Law, an opinion has been made to which paragraph 1 of this Article should be amended in such a way as to establish that the loan will be granted for the purchase of a new apartment in a building for which an application for the issuing of acts for use until the entry into force of this Act has been made. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on the Promotion of Sales of Apartments with the following amendment. In Article 7 of Article 7(1), the words "house" are added after the words "No apartment". Explanation. The proposed amendment proposes that the loan under conditions and in the manner prescribed by this law be approved in addition to natural persons who do not own an apartment for the purposes of their own housing and natural persons who do not own a house for the purpose of their own housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49867	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning, the president of the Committee, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49868	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. At the 30th session held yesterday, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law on the promotion of the sale of apartments with the Final Proposal of the Law, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 25 February 2010, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure also discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. The Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction pointed out that the law in question, in order to overcome the adverse situation in the apartment by 31 December 2011, regulate the approval of loans, and the conclusion and monitoring of the implementation of the loan contract granted from State resources in the purchase of the apartment. In addition to a brief display of the model of incentive for the sale of apartments and the benefits it brings for the purchasers of the apartment, it highlighted the importance of implementing this law for the builders, i.e. the contractors. This is primarily about encouraging established housing and preserving jobs in this activity. She pointed out that around 150,000 workers were employed in construction today, and that there were 15 000 workers left out of work due to an unfavourable trend by the end of 2009. In particular, it stressed the advantages of trusting the Agency for Legal Traffic and Real Estates of all administrative technical and other business related to the granting of loans and the conclusion of a loan agreement, as well as the condition for the purchase of the situation directly from the contractor. She also noted that the builders showed their willingness to approve the discount on the price of the flat per square metre to fit into the offered model. For the implementation of the law in the first year of its application, a hundred million kuna will be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010, and 32 million kuna of the remaining funds from the Long-term financing Fund of housing supported by the state in the account of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The discussion on the board supports the adoption of this law, and points out that it will encourage a new construction cycle and thus preserve construction jobs, and on the other hand enables customers to purchase apartments under more favourable credit conditions. With regard to the law, the proposed solution is to buy the apartment directly from the contractors, and to bear in mind that the contractor does not have to be also the investor requested an explanation whether the contractor may not be covered by this incentive model. It is pointed out that the proposed law provides for a higher amount of loans under more favourable conditions for the purchase of a low-priced apartment per metre square, which recognises the importance of this law to encourage and sell apartments in smaller places, and thus fostering the rest of the population and ultimately fostering decentralised development. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Incentives of Sales of Apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49869	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49870	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club accepts the proposal for a law to encourage the sale of apartments. It should be pointed out at first that this legislative proposal is good and that the adoption of this law is necessary in order to avoid the additional negative consequences caused by the reduction in the sale of real estate apartments. It is evident that during 2009, there has been a significant stagnation in the sale of apartments on the real estate market, that construction has become less and less involved with the trend to continue this even slightly favourable situation in 2010. It is also important to stress that the work of construction plays an extremely important role in the Croatian economy where around 150,000 workers are employed, many of whom are employed in the apartment. Because of the unfavourable trend in the real estate market by the end of 2009 there were 15 thousand workers left without a job, and if this trend continues in 2010 without a job, there could be an additional number of workers. Namely, Croatia invests 985 million kuna annually in housing through various programmes of encouraging housing, housing savings, building homes for people with disabilities, and rebuilding houses in areas that are destroyed by war. However, in this situation it is not enough, and to prevent further dismissal in construction and to encourage a new cycle of housing construction, the Government has designed a project to encourage the sale of apartments that we are discussing here today. Simply put, it is actually a proposal where the state would lend a loan to buy the first apartment or buy a larger apartment, of course, if sold smaller. The aim of the proposed law is to enable builders to start a new construction cycle with the funds from the sale of apartments, to employ their capacities and what is extremely important in the conditions of high unemployment to preserve all jobs. On the other hand, an interested buyer, i.e. a natural person who first purchases an apartment or who owns only one apartment that sells for the purchase of a larger apartment, wants to be able to buy an apartment on a more favourable credit condition with State aid. On the basis of the loan war, it will be 221 euros per month, and the payoff will be up to a maximum of 20 years. During the beginning, an interest rate of 2% per year will be charged to the principal, while from the moment of payment, until the full repayment of the interest rate will be 5% per year. The repayment deadline is 30 years. The model is estimated to be 30 percent more favourable than current commercial loans. The loan under this law can only be granted for the purchase of a new apartment in the building for which all necessary permits and consent are issued until the date of entry into force of this law. It is also an important condition for obtaining loans that the apartment is bought from a contractor who has fulfilled all obligations towards the Republic of Croatia by 1 July 2008 with the basis of taxes, taxes and contributions and which are not under way, is not in the course of bankruptcy or the procedure for determining the conditions for the achievement of the bankruptcy procedure. So by encouraging the sale of apartments with 100 million kuna this year, the state will allow the purchase of the first apartment or the purchase of a larger apartment. The first year of application of this law is expected to boost sales of about a thousand apartments, with a total value of 664 million kuna. The proposed law would be approved by the end of 2011. The range of state support ranges from 100 to 300 euros per square, depending on the price of a square meter apartment. Thus, 100 euros in support is intended for a housing square of between 1,000 and 1,000 euros, and the largest support of 300 euros will have apartments whose price does not exceed 1,000 euros per square metre. Apartments whose price is above 1,000 euros per metre of the square state will not be subsidized, i.e. those apartments will not be subject to the law. This kind of model should actually be an incentive to builders to further lower the price of apartments in order to get as many apartments into this category as possible. Namely, the prices of the residential square in Croatia are high and in many cases do not match the quality of the apartments built. On average, they range from a thousand and a half to 4000 euros at individual locations, and of course there are far more expensive ones. However, the average prices of average apartments are becoming unreachable to a growing number of Croatian citizens. Despite the large number of unsold apartments on the market, their prices are still not falling, and we hope that this legislative proposal will encourage thinking in this direction. It is also important to say that this model of encouraging the sale of apartments is also planning to generate revenue in the state budget through the VAT paid in from 103 to 113 million kuna. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community Club is of the opinion that by approving loans for the purchase of apartments as proposed in this law, it would encourage the sale of apartments to start a new construction cycle and thus preserve a number of jobs, and therefore we fully support the adoption of the Law on the Promotion of Sales of Apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49871	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49872	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would very much like to share the optimism that a colleague of the predecessor finished her presentation, and also the optimism that unfortunately appeared unfounded about this proposal when he began to be discussed. I'd like to share it, but there's simply no argument that would give us the right to give this law support, because I would say that the spin that was created around that law is thoroughly broken by facts. Why can't this law get the support of the SDP club? Of course not because SDP is an opposition party, so whatever the ruling party proposes is not good or not good enough, but simply because this law does not ensure that any outcome or objective announced by its application is achieved. Not one. Secondly, because it does not help those who allegedly want to be helped by this law, they are builders and citizens who need to buy an apartment. We won't support him either because he basically intervenes solely for the benefit of capital, not for the benefit of the citizens. And we won't support him because in his own intention he's partial, he's unconstitutional, he's at best under-thinking, and he'll be realistically irresponsible to the budget and to all those who fill it. Therefore, spin around this law is that it helps builders and future customers of apartments, and it is true that it is a law that helps those who only in this country do not need help and, as it would say, which is the congratulating HDZ man Hebrang is lurking his neck to fat geese, banks and fatpers, so those who profited about 6 billion last crisis year, although they do not know exactly, kunas that have largely evaporated from Croatia and those who, despite the suspension of the sale of apartments for a year do not bring down the bloated prices of apartments in Croatia. They're the only ones helping this bill. The arguments, the stated objectives of this law, are as follows: firstly, I quote: "to enable builders, performers to start a new cycle of construction by obtaining funds from the sale of apartments, to employ their capacities, and thus to preserve a number of jobs." What a noble goal! But what is this expectation based on? On the belief that the builders are key players in the Croatian apartment building. Oh, no, please! Speculant capital, investors, bankers, fat people, guys who have come to money in various ways, let me be forgiven by honest and honest investors, all sorts of things have been found in this market of apartments in Croatia, and it is known how and how they have led round all these years when the prices of apartments are blown up to unsuspecting heights. And according to some of the surveys that have been conducted, housing in Croatia is at the lowest level in Europe. So, looking at the ratio of our shopping opportunities and the price of a square meter, the meter of an apartment. It's not normal, it's not a natural state, and we're in such a situation instead of looking at it and solving it in a high-quality, responsible and serious way, we're actually going to go to this kind of partial solution, to actually keep it going. In other words, if investors who do not have to have anything to do with construction went into the construction of apartments and into this business exclusively because they were expecting fast, fast returns, high profits and so whether they invest in bookmakers, golf courts, apartments, jewels. They don't care, they just want as much money as they can. They do not only leave them in this business but they understand that without subsidies there is no more big business and big profits and that prices will fall by approaching the EU, they will come out of the deal. 160 thousand people worked in construction, 15 thousand of them had already fallen off, and another 45 thousand were going to fall off, and that's for sure. This law will not absolutely help to stop this story with construction and housing. These investors will move into an activity that will ensure their return of money again quickly. How could that be kept? Well, it's just that this country finally gets one designed, system-based housing policy that it hasn't had and hasn't won in these 20 years of our independence. So those who allegedly write this law don't help the law. Another category that has led citizens to increased optimism, as well as the belief that there is something like doing. It is said that this law must enable interested customers who first buy an apartment or buy a bigger one with state aid to buy an apartment under more favourable conditions. Right, but only partially. That applies to the buyers of thousands of apartments, let's say that they're planning even this one, let's say that that's the case, but not for everyone else. The minister mentioned that there are about 8, 10, 13 thousand unsold apartments built in Croatia. What about them? This is where the whole story of discrimination was introduced. It's better here because of justice, etc., the whole categories of people who work in this housing sector and construction companies that participate in the construction of apartments are excluded. For them, prices will remain the same. On the contrary, the moment the government announced one such measure, what would happen on the housing market did not happen. In fact, it's been a year since the crisis, apartments don't sell. The situation was precisely such that the prices of these apartments were to fall realistically. The moment this was announced, that trend of decline was stopped. In other words, not only will it not be cheaper to get apartments but this measure will help them to be more expensive. And that the price that would be realistically achieved on the market would be higher than that that would be achieved. You know, in barbershop years when builders or investors in the apartment made extra high profits then they talked and my people lived in market capitalism, it's a market economy. The market, the law of supply and demand will determine the level of prices. Now that they're not selling apartments, when they're supposed to fall, now they're gonna play socialism a little bit, and now the state is supposed to intervene in that whole story. Now socialism would be good, now the law of supply and demand is not worth it. Last night, I did a little list of a forum on some kind of Internet portal where people say, in a way, if they're on the market so they can be on the market. Even if he doesn't go, so let him sell, so let them sell below the price, and let them go into bankruptcy. If it is the law of supply and demand and if it is market philosophy. No, that can't happen to God right now in the interest of... Why does the state do this, why does the state help banks, as banks, because banks have given, have accredited the construction of these apartments, and with a lower price to go to the market, they cannot secure the return of money from banks, and the bank heads have signed that they will achieve a certain profit and a certain profit under which they can't go, and that's where the story is closed. And last week, the state is in charge of domestic banks for 3.5 billion kunas is issuing bonds that go through domestic banks, things are pretty clear, let's not kid ourselves about that. Which state, so as not to make me advocate a laisse fair situation, and the principle when it comes to housing, on the contrary. I am sure that it is just tragic that the state and government have not intervened in this area for all these 20 years and that Croatia has not received unlike most normal European countries, a housing strategy or housing that would then include long-term planning of different aspects that would help preserve an important economic branch on a long-term basis, not for two years as it aims at a certain measure, to establish a certain stability, to establish a new form of housing that would include building public apartments for rent, social housing, which would then incorporate civil associations of the residential community, residential cooperatives, local communities, etc., all that normal countries have. This Croatia does not have, and it would be great if the minister provided us with at least a sketch by the end of this term, at least a draft of such serious thinking, solving these problems. Unfortunately, we don't have that. I will not mention Austria, which has become an example, not for decades already, which in a great way regulates the whole of this matter, but also some countries with which we do not like to compare that have giant steps in relation to us, such as Serbia. They have a housing strategy, they know the principles of involving the local community in housing policy, and housing policy is an integral part of the whole policy. In Croatia, I will say only to this one, in Croatia in which so much is looming over the low birth rate, over the ever-laser entry into marriages, no one cares that this is a key element for this fertilization motivation. Having your own apartment is the first condition that you want to have a child, not five years of maternity leave, but this, and Croatia in this respect, apart from such an unconstitutional partial and fundamentally harmful long-term solution some of my colleagues will say is nothing really, it is from hollow to empty, it will not even bite into what makes the measure of things and the measure of the problem. This is not the law that should be supported, not the banks that should be helped from the state budget that we fill in these difficult times all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49873	Thank you. We'll have corrections before then, Madam Minister. We have an amendment first, Mr. Hushka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49874	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam Minister. I will correct the inaccuracy of fellow Vidovic, who said this law does not help the builders. While this Law helps those who first buy an apartment, under conditions that have not been on the market in Croatia since the free state of Croatia exists, this Law also helps builders. It is precisely the funds provided for by this Act that only the builders and not the speculators as you call them, that the rest of us call them investors of people who invest their assets, cannot obtain these funds from the Law of this Programme, but the builders who have ownership sheets, who have useful housing permits that can be offered on the market for sale under the conditions defined by this Act and the special benefits will be for those who first buy apartments because we have not yet had these conditions on the market in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49875	Thank you very much. Ms. zastica Bozica Šolić rectifier.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49876	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a colleague Vidovic said in his debate that this law favours and that it is only for the benefit of capital and not for the benefit of the citizens. This is simply not true because you are denied and Article 17 where you write a single table of loan terms, but most importantly in this Act, which is true, which is why you are denied and that during the start of the credit payment, there will be only 2% interest, which is true, which is what your colleague told the first case in the Republic of Croatia, and after the start of the interest goes 5%, it is one, and it is not true that these apartments will collect by applying this Act because they will surely be in the interest of the builders and those who sell apartments that they will come down into these 1000 euros per square to 1600 euros per square, it is a fact and it is true that no matter how much you want to twist everything upside down.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49877	Thank you. Another correction, Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49878	Thank you very much. Here's what I'd like to deny to a fellow MP where he says that the benefits of this bill will only be speculators, developers and banks. In particular, Article 8 states: “The loan is only approved for the purchase of a new apartment in the building, for which the instrument for use has been issued until the date of entry into force of this Act and if this apartment is purchased” so this is important “directly from the contractors who have the right consent to start carrying out the work of construction under a special law” means that the developers do not have, that the developers do not have the licenses, but that the contractors, the builders, will be able to sell what benefit the customers of the apartment but is a great and great benefit for the builders and contractors themselves, because the developers will not be able to make the contract with APN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49879	Thank you. And Minister Ms Marina Matulović Dropoulos. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49880	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, I'm sorry that Mr. Vidovic actually collapsed on those who have easily come to profit, which we are falling to. We have clearly and loudly written that these things that have formed companies exclusively to build one house or 10 houses, sell apartments well, you are not included in this law. It's only about the one who was doing the work. And you say there are no builders here. Only the builders are here. Those builders who have licenses that have registered for construction work. That's not where we're talking about the developers at all. In my opening statement, I said that we had an objection from HUP and that HUP had asked the developers to come inside, but we didn't put them here. No construction firm is excluded, so all those with licenses can sell that apartment. And it's definitely gonna help. We end-of-the-end people can trust you, or whoever claims it won't help or can trust us who think we've had conversations with both the banks and the builders and the Chamber of Commerce and the trade unions and with everyone we've had that conversation with to see how and how to stop the collapse of the construction industry. Of course, this is just one small segment, because everything the Prime Minister said the other day as much as we invest from our companies in investment, how much more Croatia invests in investment, of course it all needs to be summed up, and only then does something mean something to the builders. This is just one small piece for those who do high-building work. You know well that we have different activities in construction, as I said the production of construction material which is very interested in tiles, pipes and the like that can be sold and these apartments can be built and we have craftsmen who are very interested in this because craftsmen are doing all these small works, and so are these construction workers who perform works. And now I just want to say a few more words about the strategy and where you're all wondering together that we don't have strategies and you're comparing us to Austria. You know what the Croatian state has invested so far in rebuilding the Croatian state in this part of 25 billion kuna. 2 billion kuna for the construction of dwellings of victims of the Homeland War, 2 billion kuna for returnees who had former tenant rights. 562 million kuna for tenants and especially in the areas of special state care, 16 billion for the reconstruction of houses. And then another 431 million for POS's apartments. So we're simply not able to offer today, we've made one strategy, we know what it's supposed to look like, especially regarding the rentals that are being talked about here. However, today, as much investment awaits us with what I have said, we can't have a simple strategy like Austria. We were still a country that was affected by war and a country that must allow its people normal housing where they once were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49881	On behalf of the HSS club, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49882	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. As we all know more in the construction industry in the Republic of Croatia, about 150 thousand workers were employed. It promotes numerous economic branches such as wood industry, textile industry, chemical products, varnishes, paints, metal industry and so on. During 2009, there was a significant impasse in construction due to the reduction in the sale of apartments, so the economic operators involved in the construction business are the exact number of 2 thousand 315 unsold apartments of about 144 thousand square meters. According to the budgets, this bill could achieve a sale of about a thousand dwellings of about 664 million kuna, for which 100 million kuna support should be provided. Part of the funding is slightly larger than 30 million kuna, and the rest of the government has already provided the rest of the Fund's long-term financing of housing with the support of the state, and the rest of around 70 million kuna needs to be provided in the state budget for this year 2010. It is also estimated that by selling these thousands of apartments in 2010 with an average of thousands and 300 euros on the basis of VAT, the state should generate revenue from the state budget between 103 and 113 million kuna. Therefore, the state would return its funds immediately, while improving construction activities, affecting the detention of construction workers' jobs, while at the same time making it easier for many citizens to reach their own living space. The subject-law seeks to facilitate construction workers to overcome these difficult times of crisis, by allowing the funds from the sale of apartments to start a new construction cycle, employ their people and activate other material capacities. Also on the other side of the customer who first buys an apartment or buys a bigger apartment, wants to enable the purchase of an apartment under more favourable conditions. This law is also important to stress the adoption of a fixed time, i.e. until 31 December 2011, which is the assumption that the need for this law will cease after the expiry of that period. In addition, this law applies only to the purchase of a new apartment which has a valid permit until the date of entry into force of this law or by selling a smaller one, and to the purchase of a larger apartment, for which all obligations to the State have been met. The level of support is, we have already heard, from 100 to 300 euros per metre squared depending on the price of the apartment, with a maximum pay-off of 20 years for when an interest rate of 2% is foreseen, with the maximum repayment period of 30 years. There are no restrictions in the law in relation to the age of the applicant. The only restriction is that the claimant shall apply for the granting of the loan to a public-booked certified document or a declaration that he has no apartment or that he owns only one apartment that sells for the purchase of a larger apartment but for the sole purpose of his own residence. One thing is also not mentioned and that is how many maximum squares can be an apartment sold and how the state will ensure that the seller who started the sale process of the apartment when he obtains all the permits does not give up that same sale. The bill provides for the permission to book a mortgage by the bank but also by the Agency for Legal Traffic and Real Estate Intermediation, which means a double mortgage, but what we may still be interested in is how it will be done in practice because the law does not specify it. The HSS Club considers that these provisions should be precisely defined without further flexible implementation. During the reference of this bill in the procedure, criticism was made that this government subsidisation would prevent housing prices from falling and that it favours only the construction lobby, we heard it today. However, it should be noted that the law in question states that the government is the largest amount of 300 euros per metre of the cheapest apartments, so those whose price is of a thousand euros per metre square metre without VAT and for each increase in the price of 150 euros, the support is reduced accordingly by 50 euros per square metre. Also, at least support will be given to housing buyers whose price is from a thousand to a thousand 600 euros while for apartments whose value exceeds a thousand 600 euros, the state will not pay for the support. In this way, customers should be interested in buying cheaper apartments, so it is expected that the current prices will be significantly adjusted or apartments will be purchased in smaller places and in areas of special state concern where the apartment square is already much cheaper at the start. Artists who want to sell apartments in most cities will have to, I believe that we all share such an opinion, will have to reconsider the set price and, in line with the emerging situation and cost-effectiveness analysis, reduce their prices. It is irrefutable that in Croatia the price of the apartment is too high, especially if the wage power of the citizens is taken into account. The prices of apartments are becoming unreachable to more Croatian citizens, although some records show some 10,000 unsold, I'm talking about apartments. But we are also not talking about apartments that will be built for example in the Flower Square, which at least according to stories that are in public today are about 10,000 euros per square square, but about the price of apartments that are acceptable to each of our citizens, or should be. Credits are also becoming more inaccessible and unfavourable, so we at the HSS club invite investors or builders to think carefully when designing the prices of the apartment because for example for 60 squares of living space Croatian citizens should work on average for 11 years. For that same number of squares I'm going to give you an example of the threshold, they're going to have to work for about six years. We also think it's time for the builders, investors to put themselves in place and realize that the time of the fast profit, the el dorado of the profits has passed. And in the end, the HSS Club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49883	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the HNS club, distinguished colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49884	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The intention of this law is certainly positive. The dynamicization of one segment of the Croatian economy and it mainly concludes everything that is positive in this law and related to this law. Unfortunately, such a law has little chance of achieving this goal, so to achieve the objective of dynamicising an important segment of the Croatian economy and there is no way of achieving optimal effects. So those effects that could be achieved in this part. To begin with, if one segment or this segment of the Croatian economy is to be dynamicd, then it begins with false assumptions. So the unsold apartments at this point are not 2.5 or 2 or some thousands but 10 grand. In these 10,000 unsold apartments, around 8 billion kunas are frozen as far as economies are concerned, so those who are not at this moment in the economy are frozen in those squares. For the country there is about a billion VAT frozen. So if we look at the whole picture, not only segment, not just depending on who built it, who owned it, but the total intensity of the law as stated in Article 1 of this law is the prevailing adverse situation in the housing, encouraging the sale of apartments. So obviously the dynamicization of this segment of the economy or this segment of the economy. So if you want to dynamic one segment of the economy then it's probably logical to release as much capital as possible that's frozen in that part of the economy and slightly less. So, more than 8 billion, not as little as possible. If we look at the very proposal for a law according to articles two, I would say primarily controversial articles or at all controversial approaches in this model proposed by this law. They are contained in Articles 7 and 8 or in the answers to the question of who can buy and who can sell. The answer to the question of who can buy is given in Article 7 and is said to, and is then defined and narrowed down by the number of people or the type of buyer who can qualify to buy an apartment under this law. So, the person who owns it doesn't have an apartment for the needs of his own apartment, etc. This provision, which restricts those who can buy an apartment, is in direct conflict with Article 1 of this Act, which says it is not intended to allow one segment of the population to buy apartments but is intended to overcome the adverse situation in the housing sector. So he is trying to help the housing to dynamicise, to dynamic construction, certainly an important branch of the Croatian economy. Therefore, it is also necessary to enable construction to be dynamiced, to enable people who, under these conditions, will and can not narrow down but preferably expand the number of people who can buy an apartment. Something if you don't want to, and if it really doesn't make anyone happy, but if you want to limit yourself, then one possibility is to say that only one customer can buy one apartment by that model, which is usually to be checked out in practice, because it might be that it's going to be a huge rush, but somehow it seems unreal to me that it's going to be a huge rush, and it might be that this model is not going to be able to sell apartments at all, or it's going to be too few interested. So that the effect on the economy, which is such a law, is the law that goes towards, say, crisis intervention or crisis intervention in the Croatian economy, so that the economy will not benefit from it. Therefore, the way to limit those who can qualify to purchase an apartment described in Article 7 under this model is in direct contrast with the law intensities defined in Article 1, which is to assist civil engineering or to solve problems or facilitate housing problems. The second question is, who can sell the apartment and answer the question of who can sell the apartment? Article 8 thus states only the performer who has the appropriate consent to take up the activity, the licensed seller. Now first, why just licensed builders. First, there are, of course, a number of different licences, but by 2008, by the end of 2008, licences were obtained by the number of employees. In translation, here means only great builders because they only have licenses, and those who do not have a certain number of workers can't sell because they couldn't even get a license until the end of 2008. This article is otherwise directly contrary to Article 49 of the Croatian Constitution on the equal position of entrepreneurs on the market, which the state says among other things provides all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market, the abuse of a monopoly position by a certain law is prohibited. The introduction of this category, with the knowledge that licences were granted by the end of 2008, on the basis of the number of employees, so only large companies are placed in an unequal position and Article 49 of the Croatian Constitution is violated. So, among other things, the law is anti-constitutional. And then it is said that they can sell those over whom there is no bankruptcy or procedure to determine the conditions for opening the bankruptcy proceedings. This seems additionally absurd because if the law's intensities to help this segment of the Croatian economy, hence construction, and it makes it impossible for people who could possibly avoid bankruptcy or get away with it, or in the bankruptcy process itself, will have to sell what they have, then support the intensity of the law itself. Because the whole idea should be not to drive people into bankruptcy and companies but vice versa, to allow them not to go into bankruptcy or to allow them to be restructured through bankruptcy and thus survive, of course, and to make it easier for them to sell the assets they have. On one example, to only see the effect of this law, I will illustrate. Under this law, an apartment of 70m2, a country for a 70m2 apartment at a price of 1300 euros per square cent of the state will borrow 14,000 euros under this model, and a citizen or buyer will have to arrange a loan with the bank for the other 77,000 euros. It's just roughly over half a million kunas. So the citizen, and the bank has no reason or incentive to cut its interest. So, you will get this favourable interest for 14 thousand euros, and for 77 orts over half a million kuna, you will have to pay interest with the bank that the bank will cut off from you. Hand to heart, if you have to pay for over half a million kuna interest that the bank cuts off for you, you will somehow manage these 14 thousand euros. In other words, when you look at the ratio of power in the real life of 70 squares by 1300 euros per square, you still have no option or increase the security of the bank that would reduce the bank's risk, then it would reduce your interest you must be able to borrow from the bank 77,000 euros for that apartment. Now, that's, that's remarks when you're looking at the law inside. However, as far as the HNS Club is concerned, there is a fundamental observation that looks at the law in principle, which looks at this approach in principle, and there is a whole approach that has been missed. In fact, this law regulates something that should not be regulated by law. What should be regulated by law is to allow the state, through different models, to help in different situations that will certainly be different today, in a year, in three years, for five years to help recover or dynamicise in this particular case of a segment of the Croatian economy called construction or construction industry. How will it help? The specific model will change. This shows itself this bill of law which may be the highlight of absurdity passed by law in 20 months. Therefore, by 31 December 2011 it is proposed to adopt the law until 31 December 2011. So why make the law in 20 months? It is necessary to pass a law amending and supplementing the Law on POS, a special law of three articles, whatever you want. But a law needs to be passed that will allow it to intervene through different models. It could be this model that you suggested, which is bad and will have no effect. It may be a POS plus model that the HNS suggested and showed in public that would have effects but please don't have to accept it if you think you're negatively assessing it. But the very fact that something comes from the HNS or the opposition must not be sufficient reason to refuse or should not be sufficient reason to, if it is near common sense and has a chance to achieve an effect which is said to be achieved by this law to reject the admin. Therefore, the HNS, unfortunately, although the law's intention supports content, finds it missed the whole subject. So, define in the law, it goes into micro management. Defines a model instead of defining an option, and when defining a model model is wrong. Unfortunately, we won't be able to support him.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49885	Thank you. We have two applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49886	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister. Well, I'm going to correct an incorrect quote from my colleague Pusic in which she stated that only licenses can be given to me by large. It's absolutely incorrect that only big ones can get licenses. Namely, it is prescribed exactly what is required for the licence. A construction operation for which the company is registered, as well as experts who must be employees of the firm in order to be able to carry out the tasks for which the company has registered. So I need to get to know you that today in the Republic of Croatia over 6500 there is a license for a construction operation that is licensed on two occasions and that is how you compete for quality jobs, but also for making quality jobs, given that it has the professional staff and the operation needed for construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49887	Thank you. And second application of the correction by counterpart Angelko Mihalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49888	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. President, Madam Minister. Well, I'd just like to supplement my colleague Djakic. That's what I was going to say. In fact, it is not an exact claim that only large construction firms and that this law pleases large construction firms. So for example, a company of 30 people that doesn't belong to the company has, so a licensed firm can be a business carrier and build up to the value of investment 3 million euros, which is about 20 or 30 apartments, given the cost of work and expenses. Also, just before I could say one more word, there was a claim that this law was good for the developers, and now it is claimed to be good for the builders. It is just the builders, so in the part where they were not paid by job-orders they will be able to make it easier and more quality to collect and fix the difficult financial situation in their companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49889	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the distinguished Minister Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49890	Honored Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, what I agree with Mrs. Pusic is that there must be various models. And there's no reason for anyone not to suggest and some other model for some other people or other citizens who will be able to pay these apartments differently and buy apartments. We haven't turned down a single proposal yet. As you know, the day before yesterday was a press conference for the HNS Club. I found out yesterday that you sent it to the government. Of course we'll be clear about that. But what we can hardly agree on in this House if it's SDP and HNS clubs, for example, because for example, the HNS is to sell their apartments in a way that is different from the SDP that only builders have to sell apartments, and we have defined ourselves. We said in this model builders sell apartments, and in some other model others can sell apartments. In our model builders sell apartments. In addition, it is completely remembered that there are 10,000 unsold apartments. No one has made any analysis of these apartments alive. No, it's not. [[Intruder: Yes.]] And therefore, so long as we don't know how many of them there are, of course, that we can propose without any problems and any other model. This model refers to builders, refers to people who do not have purchasing power like some others who can buy apartments, and I guess the state can say what the state will credit for the longer term. It does not mean that the state will now credit apartments in Zagreb that will cost 3,000 euros per square second, too. It's just out of the question. But there's one more thing I have to say about, no matter what Mrs. Pusic didn't talk about, but I'm from the press conference of theirs, it came out on HINA, although the material itself I guess we'll get now, so we'll be able to make it clear, and we'll be able to make it clear about it, but the important difference between POS plus what you put out at the press conference might be that it's not true, I don't know, because it's what the press says, people have to give 20% of the participation, just like it is today at POS. If people participate, of course, they have to ensure that you said 70 squares, I don't know 14 thousand or 15 thousand euros. There's no participation here, and there's a difference. A man doesn't pay for any participation, man, we, so APN pays for it, and so there's this important difference that I'm not getting into the whole part of it right now, that's what we're going to say. But I mean, if you're proposing a particular model, it doesn't mean we can't have two or three or five models. There's no reason why we can't see what's good and not accept things. After all, we're still spending POS, we've built 4000 800 apartments in POS, so there's no reason not to accept anyone else's proposal, only we're asking that at this time, so when it's two years old, because we have flats on the market that are completely finished, it means these supplies, which are to be sold, and there might be some model that's going to talk about the future, about two years, and five years or not at all. So, I think that and please make this up... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49891	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vesna Pusic, correction of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Minister said something about this, commenting on what I said, she spoke about the participation of 14,000 euros. No, I'm, I'm not saying that participation is 14,000 euros, but I said that the state according to your model, the state gives these favourable let's say interest rates for an average apartment of 70 square meters, which costs a thousand euros per square, favourable conditions apply to the total price only to the one part that is 14 thousand euros, and 77 thousand euros is still on bank loans that the bank gets. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49893	On behalf of the promoter, re-reputed Minister Matulović Dropulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49894	I don't think you understand me, ma'am. I wasn't talking about what you said today, but what you said at the press conference, when you represented your program plus, so you said there, I fenced myself, I said I wasn't sure if it was true, because it's from the papers, but it says people should give 20% of the participation. So, nothing else, and this is what you say, but it's still in POS today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49895	Thank you. And the last application on behalf of the club, on behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed colleague, Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49896	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Croatia is facing an economic breakdown, everyday protests confirm it, Mr. Kunst is laughing, today is due to happen Split, in a month and a half the general strike is announced. To a large extent, what is the paradoxical situation is responsible for those who strike today? Why? The way they voted, it's so up to all of us. But let's let it go now. Three years ago, I was talking. ... Oh, come on, come on, come on, come on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Three years ago, I was saying that in 2008, we're going to have a year of economic hints, so let's not say break now, in 2009 crash, and that we should be waiting for the bottom somewhere at the beginning of this year. If we had conducted the second round of privatisation of Croatian shipbuilding, if two, three shipyards had ended up in bankruptcy, that would have happened. This is how we buy social peace, but at the beginning I assure you in 2011 and we will talk about it as we talk about today or talk about unsold apartments. There are not 2,000 unsold apartments in Croatia, Mrs Pusic mentioned the number of 10,000, there are those who say that in Croatia today we have about 15 thousand unsold apartments. That's if we were to multiply it by 4, about how many citizens can live in that apartment, about a city the size of a Pula, one Zadar, one Great Gorica, where in these unsold apartments 50, 60 thousand people could be housed. And God forbid I know by this, or by what model the sale of apartments is, because the budget would probably feel something, but since economic opportunities are what they are, which is what I started this speech with, it's probably not going to happen that soon. It's probably not going to happen with this law either. It's probably not going to happen with any other model. We are fortunate to be selling apartments in that finality not to be burdened with VAT, as it is in Europe, but only with that socialist property tax of 5%. But that's not how we see it, when it comes to sales, nothing's going on right now. It's clear that the builders on the goods, on the work, on the work they pay the VAT of 23%. It's no big deal. But the fact is that at this point, it's all mattered and I have the impression that it's going to stand for a long time. When we could sell almost every square, it doesn't matter if it's on the Adriatic or in Zagreb, then we were against everything. Today, when we do not have a job in construction, every month thousands of people remain, we would do something declarative, but on the other hand, and part of the government and part of the opposition and part of the green and public and part of the media I absolutely against everything when something should be built, so that I do not now list examples. How do you convince people in this country to do something? Well, I guess I'll build one. Because this construction industry, as someone said earlier, employs either directly or indirectly about 150 thousand people at this point. This business certainly isn't a small business. If we don't move, I don't know, in two years, so we'll be selling ourselves. We'll sell ourselves far cheaper than today. Now the question is, does this law solve anything? Maybe something small, tiny, maybe 2.3 of some ministers working in construction business, I don't know, but certainly not entirely. Maybe we'd be far smarter if with that money that we'd channel here for the sale of apartments we'd be building down in Montenegro. You will soon see how many companies, these construction mechanisms, are going to fail because of this, and those who talk about some new 15 billion kuna deal, adding up the extra budget funds, the amounts, which have always been in disposition every year, I think they deceive us all, and on the other hand they don't say that these companies made a net profit of 395.2 million kuna in the first nine months of last year. But they also increased their debt at a level of $49.5 billion. So the responsibility of these public companies at this point is over 50 billion kuna. And now these companies are going to invest, man is asking himself how. It should have projects on the other hand, public tenders should be held. On public procurement, just to mention, in January and February, only 2.2 billion kuna turned to January and February, 6.2 billion kuna. Based on VAT, only in the 4 billion countries lost a billion kuna in the first 2 months of this year. And now does that concern anyone? No, they're all scared, they're all afraid of their shadows. Nobody knows who's gonna parade the central journal with handcuffs on their hands tomorrow, which I know. People are scared, no one is doing anything, and the state is falling into living mud. And while, on the other hand, we don't encourage consumption, there's no way forward. And this law, I'm afraid, is not such a law. This law, I said, saves some of the builders Mrs Pusic spoke of. Probably the banks, and there they need to be fair, not take everything, and because of the inability to pay off credit, they don't lose everything that these people have been building for decades. So, it's not according to this law that I'm looking at primary bank rescue, it's primarily saving companies that are credited to these same banks. If that happens, that would be clear enough. As long as, on the other hand, the square meter is still in this country 1300, 1500 euros, as if we're in Paris, there's someone trying to make a lot of money, and at this point it's only banks. Until it's funded, on the other hand, building houses, but exclusively buying apartments, it's saving some power-related companies, and finally this law, I'm afraid it won't encourage much. Here in Art. 17. talk about these euros to be paid for apartments of up to 1000 to 1150 euros, from 1151 to 1300, etc. On the other hand, it should also be kept in mind, in one Poreč, Opatija, Rovinj, Dubrovnik, Zagreb is certainly higher than in my Buzet, Pazin, Gospić, I don't know, Slavonski Brod, and the amount of loans for these expensive, under quotes, destinations is smaller than in other parts of Croatia. The key to the law is this interest for sure, Art. 18th and 19th, so I don't quote them now. There are those who claim, as we have heard here, that the law only suits banks. Okay, we sold the banks 'cause the conversion review won't be, they're stories for naives. Banks make bad money because, for example, "Hypo Bank" is not in trouble because of Croatia but because of what she did in Austria and is making a lot of money there, but again on the other hand while our banks of liquid state will live. Let's make them inequitable, then we'll all go along with them. And that's the point. But the point is something else. How to stimulate this economic growth, and this year, we're being blacked out. How to boost consumption? In the world, they do it by reducing VAT. In one Finland, VAT is reduced to food products, France for all catering services from 19.6 to 5.5%. In Belgium, and I want to say, they cut VAT for the cost of building new apartments from 21% of VAT to 6% of VAT plus a delay in paying VAT for firms that are in difficulty. Perhaps it would help companies far more if they were delayed for some time by paying VAT, by those firms that are in trouble, not by forced payment by the Ministry of Finance immediately sits behind their necks. On the other hand, I don't know, we're getting carried away with this story about the elimination of 2% of the harassers, and who's going to pay back to one worker two percent today? Well, they'll only pay back 2% of the state and public companies, the private company won't. Well they come from the position of gentlemen of the crisis is, you're here 10, sales are smaller to us 20, 25% so we have less to do so so choose, or go 2 workers home or go pay down 10 or 15 or 20%. And everyone accepts normal stay at work, and where someone thinks about bringing back those 2% of the hacks. Well, that, and it shows that this measure has been absurd, but I'm not going to talk about it right now, but I'm sure until we've encouraged consumption, there's no bread for us. This law, on the other hand, speaks of a thousand apartments, and we have one ten thousand or 15 thousand unsold apartments. There are 2,000 unsold apartments in Istria. No one's selling anything, no one's buying anything except those super-attractive plots, that's gotta be admitted. In two years, maybe the trend will be the same, maybe it'll be worse. And up until a year ago, here's only for Istria to say, we sold agricultural land for 14 euros, and in Luxembourg it was sold for 11, in Lombarda and Korusko, in Bavaria for 5 to 7 euros. We've just messed everything up, all the parameters are wrong. We've been living on speculation, and now we're paying for it. Who, on the other hand, is going to get these loans? And that may be the crucial moment of this law. Well, I'm just saying whoever's got a secure salary right now and who's got one. So he who works indefinitely in a state-owned company, in a facility, in a local self-government, in a municipal or public enterprise. If a private company employee will be able to get to this loan, I say he won't. Whether 85 or 95% of the people who are in Croatia currently hiring will be able to reach this loan, they will not. So someone who works in the public service or someone who has a way of getting to the loan can come to the same, so maybe this phrase is bigger. Of course they're for every economic activity, and I'm going to vote for this law, why. Because not a good enough measure is better than no measure and bad law is better sometimes than no law. Anything that encourages the economy needs to be clearly welcomed, clearly, what time it is I would dare even say that these small businessmen, these craftsmen, are even in a far more difficult situation and from workers working with them, but I fear that this Law will not solve anything fundamentally, so the promotion of construction should be solved by a stable economy and not by some legal alchemy. And that's just the point. So employment, new jobs, and they will later bring in more and more new apartments, new and new products, cars, furniture and so on. What I look forward to is that the minister mentioned one fact that, in the residential activity of this or that type, from the victims to the POS, Croatia has hired almost 25 billion of its budget money, so I wonder why until today, for example, it does not want to solve the problem of protected tenants that I know, probably the least protected category of citizens or beings in the Republic of Croatia to be more precise. It is said here that in 2010 it is planned to be sold under the law of 1000 dwellings whose total value is 664 million kuna, and for the implementation of this plan it is necessary to provide 100 million kuna of incentive funds, for the implementation of this Act the funds remaining for long-term financing of housing with the support of the state in the account of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 32 million kuna, and the rest of the funds needed in the budget of the Republic of Croatia should be provided. It is clear that these 32.4 million kunas should be placed on the market, they should be taken out of this business bank, even if he was HBOR and tried to do something with them, but here when we have 100 million kuna here, there may be 100 million kuna for the construction of roads or guarantees in Montenegro that no good part of Croatia's operation in the coming years could fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49897	Thank you very much. The time for individual applications is up, now we have six applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49898	Thank you very much. First of all, this Law encouraged our on-call disasterist in the Parliament of fellow Members of Damir Cain to express a series of inaccuracies, usually not related at all to the subject. So he said incorrectly that Croatia is in general breakdown, something like that, that the general breakdown is in Croatia and that general strikes are announced in Croatia. In order to talk about the general strike, he must know the situation in the union and the union centre that announced it, so one union centre announced a strike but knowing the internal situation I can discuss to you after Damira why she announced the strike. Otherwise, I have one thing to say. It was common when IDS participated, participated in the government that the general strikes were almost every two months, and then Cain didn't yell that he was general... Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49899	Supposedly, correct your colleague Kunst, explain this and then explain it to Damir, find yourself, it's nice if the MPs talk to each other, you're clear and clear. Next up, you've reached out to your colleague Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49900	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd say to my colleagues that what he's saying is the character of generality because it doesn't go into detail, it doesn't go into detail, so he's hidden in pure mathematics, something that he learns in the first grade to add up and multiply, when he's talking about the number of apartments that are on the market, I don't dispute even if I believe the second argument, 15 thousand apartments he said, if we were counting with an average family then they'd see that it's not... He said the wrong information is that the size of Zadar is in the number of apartments. I'm saying that Zadar has several times that number, so pure mathematics is wrong, and I'm not telling the other data in the generality that he's talking about in the absence of concrete arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49901	Thank you very much. The correction is Zadar is several times larger than there are built apartments that are offered for sale. Thank you. You'll sell faster than these 1,000. A fellow Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49902	Thank you very much. Well, here's the gentleman who gave one false piece of information when he said it was lucky that he didn't have a VAT on the sale of apartments. The exact data is quite the opposite, VAT is paid on the first purchase of apartments is paid VAT but only for the value of the building, for the value of the land is paid 5% of the property tax. So in the structure here, VAT would be in this law somewhere projected by 13%, which would have an effect on the budget. So this law would have an effect on the budget somewhere around 65 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49903	Thank you, fellow Mihalic. Dear colleague Frano Matušić has also applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49904	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Cain incorrectly said that this Law was passed for the sake of two three building ministers. Dear Cain, this Law is passed as it was said for the construction workers, for the sake of their employees and for our fellow citizens who will in this way come to a more favourable loan. The other thing is, you said who could get a loan like this. Only those who are employed in state services. So public service employees in the public sector make up the employees in Croatia, so everyone else that they can get it, spread the lies. And the third colleague Cain there are two proverbs, one very wise, in fact both of them are very wise. One says and the German says "Only one who knows very much is aware that he knows little" and the other says, "He who doesn't know anything thinks he knows everything." Now, you do your own assessment of which category you belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49905	Thank you. He applied for the correction of the quote Ivan Škaričić. Here's a colleague of Scissors.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49906	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague, Matusic, who was going to say what I was going to say. In fact, counterpart Cain said the law is likely to be passed for several ministers who have construction companies. That would be if the truth were a disaster. That's certainly not true. It is true that it is made for builders who do their job fairly and now cannot sell apartments because of this crisis. And more importantly, it is brought to those families who buy their first apartment and that is its real purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49907	Thank you very much. And the final application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Stipe Milinkovic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49908	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues before me have corrected a colleague of Caine's many false allegations. I'd still mention one that says no one's selling anything, no one's buying anything. That's absolutely incorrect. It's impossible, then, of course, everything would care. But today, you've had one of the more deadly catastrophes today, as you've known before. You were against everything, in the end you were against yourself. So here's what I'm asking you, as well as my colleague Kunst, to raise some optimism so that I can invite you to a little bit more optimism in your mood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49909	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain said he'd vote for the law, so it's a grain of optimism in that. We're moving on to an individual debate, first registered colleague Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49910	Dear Vice President, Minister, fellow MPs. Surely, this proposed Law on Incentives Sales of Apartments The Government of the Republic of Croatia primarily wants to help construction within as short a time period as possible and thus encourages the system of housing. In fact, as has been pointed out so far, somewhere at the end of last year, 2 thousand 315 newly built uninhabited apartments of a total area of approximately 144 thousand square metres remained unsold. And according to the assessment of stagnations in the sale of apartments, it is expected in the following year, or this year. The government is seeking to help builders first of all to preserve their jobs, meaning the jobs of workers employed in this construction sector, especially in this part of the housing sector.J Today the construction sector employs around 150 thousand workers, which is a very large figure, a large army of people who earn their existence in this activity. However, the fact is that this general economic crisis so far which has hit hard and this area of construction has brought such an accident that there have been 14 thousand workers left without a job and only last year, while some 6.5 thousand workers in the activity are waiting for a few months to pay their wages, since we know that the construction sector is in serious trouble. Well, logically, if they can't be charged, then they pay off workers who don't get paid in time. Furthermore, the government is also helping the proposed state loan to many citizens who cannot resolve their elemental issue, the elemental need, which is to buy an apartment and thus resolve their housing issue. Surely the reason for the decline in the purchasing power of citizens, as well as the unfavourable strict bank loans and conditions for these housing loans that do not normally go hand in hand to people so that they can address their elemental needs. The highest state loan fact is that the customers of the cheapest apartments will get. That's it. Loan amount, i.e. The amount of the loan depends on the price of the square meter apartment. And it moves like you saw everyone who read the law somewhere, from 100 to 300 euros per metre of square apartment. So, for example. for a 70m-square apartment if the price per meter is a thousand euros, the amount of loans is 300 euros, totaling 21 thousand euros of a more favourable state loan, out of 70,000 euros that would cost. And, of course, no one can say now that to anyone who buys an apartment, that 21 thousand euros is meaningless or that it means nothing at the time when a man decides to take that step to resolve his living issue. With these favourable incentives, the government expects to boost sales somewhere for approximately a thousand apartments totalling 664 million kuna, including through value added tax, the state budget would market around 113 million kunas somewhere. So it's also one good side that the state budget in that part will profit. Taking into account all these numbered arguments, we are coming to a situation where, based on the bill's proposal, everyone is winning through this law. I'm sure we can laminate here if we're satisfied, so we'd like better rights and better ones. I would be the happiest if everyone in Croatia could get free apartments and could solve housing issues for everyone and that we have no outstanding housing issues. That would be best, sure. But unfortunately, we're not in that position. And so I repeat again, this bill certainly gives favor to all. First, it gives benefits to construction workers who are encouraged by new construction. So when they get to new funds, they have a cycle that they can go into and start a new construction. Then, construction workers also win, so workers working in this job-saving activity, not only jobs, but also salaries. Like I said somewhere around 7000 workers in that activity who are employed, but they wait a few months to get their salary, because they have no where. They're here in fact and their existence is being helped by this law. Then no one can dispute as much as we can talk that surely in the city of Zagreb it is difficult to find a thousand euros square feet of apartment. To talk about it, but it has a range of between 1,000 and 600 euros per square metre, that citizens who under more favourable conditions will still solve these problems. Well, here's what I'm saying on this example, is that any kind of savings are going to mean a lot to them. And normally as I said, it will benefit the state budget. Personally, I feel that I should appeal to the government to think about it, but not only to the government, and to local community units, that part of the apartments that are free on the market should be put into place and allow the value of the apartment to be paid through the rent, which would be taken into account at the time of purchase of that apartment. I think it would be a great help to many families, especially young families, young people who, unfortunately, are in the sub-citizenship today, who pay an expensive cost of sub-citizenship, I call it throwing money out the window. And ultimately, what's worst doesn't solve their housing issue. And that's why I appeal especially to the minister here who knows this problem well, I know that it's a great cost for the government and that these are certain funds that should be provided through the budget but I think it would be very significant at the moment when we have a lot of young people who are in our sub-population, who can't get into the adventure of buying an apartment that just through that price they rent that apartment and then over the years that will rent that apartment know that they have a chance and buy that apartment and stay in that apartment. And it's quite a different experience and the satisfaction of such a family, at least everyone who's been in the subunity, I've been, I know very well what that means. And in this way, they would solve their housing problem in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49911	Thank you very much. We've reported several replicas. First of all, dear colleague Zeljko Turk. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49912	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary of State. Comrade Kunst, you've made it quite clear exactly what the situation is when based on this law, which of course we're going to accept exactly how much the state through this loan helps, it only encourages consumption. But I don't think you've mentioned enough, and it's very important that I think the minister initially said that this is how new housing buyers avoid what is often a problem at the moment, and that's cash cash as a deposit. Therefore, that amount at the level of that loan is a deposit which in this case does not differ from other forms whether loans or other activities through POS or something else that has not been avoided. This is, in my opinion, a direct new incentive for consumption and one of the very forms that this law was supposed to adopt is exactly the incentive of consumption itself and then normal and help the builders and I think it should certainly be mentioned, especially to give weight to that segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49913	Thank you very much. The answer to my colleague Kunst's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49914	Thank you very much. Comrade Turk, I think you've seen it well, and I thank you. Surely this deposit means a lot when a man who enters that investment doesn't suddenly have to secure about twenty or I don't know how much cash to pay for the apartment, that it means a lot to him, but you know it through this price that's tied up, through this loan that's tied to the price of the apartment, and I'm sure that it's been taken care of by the sellers, meaning from those who have these apartments, who built those apartments affect them to lower their price of that square meter apartment. Because I have to say really, and I personally think that today in Zagreb, I don't know how in the rest of Croatia, the prices of the apartment are rudely expensive. Logically, when we talk, I talked to some builders, they're trying to find justification through their calculations that it's basically such a price and that it can't be lower, but I think it can be and that exactly and through this law it's trying to encourage them to lower their price of apartment, price per square metre to get into this part and safely sell that apartment. I think it's cheaper to sell them an apartment or go to this variant that I was talking about putting on rent than to stand up to an empty apartment I don't know how long.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49915	Thank you. Next to the replica, counterpart Frano Matušić reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49916	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Kunst, when you were talking about who's going to profit, or who's going to get to the apartments after this law, and who's going to earn everything from the builders and their employees to our citizens, then you didn't mention a few elements that are related to our citizens who want to buy an apartment. So this applies to those who buy the apartment for the first time and those who will buy a bigger apartment than they have now, so it is both stimulating for one and another group of citizens. And secondly, what's extremely important and I think it's very important that our fellow citizens hear, and that's that the possible term of the loan is exclusively possible and the start of payment is 20 years. So, it's about a possible start of a loan payment of up to 20 years. This is extremely important for our citizens because then they can plan their income and their expenditure sides, their family budgets and comply with this bill. Of course, the full term can't be longer than 30 years from the date of the loan agreement, but this is important, this part that concerns the possible repayment of loans for up to 20 years makes it extremely easy for families to make it very easy for them to plan for the spending party and I agree completely with you that this part of the rent of apartments owned or owned by a regional or local self-government that should in some way be made possible for those who use these apartments at a more commercial price of rent, in fact, that this rent is essentially also a war if they decide to buy an apartment, that there is a war credit for that same apartment so that they can get to it easier. Absolutely there's a lot of space because I think it's in the interest of local units to meet citizens and somehow keep them in their midst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49917	Thank you very much. The answer to my colleague Kunst's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49918	Thank you very much. Comrade Matušić, surely it is difficult to convince the whole law in this part of the law since you are limited time in your debate but here and that is good because then through this replica if I do not say everything you have space and you others still supplement. So here's what we've already done with two things. First, a fellow Turk said about a deposit that doesn't have to be paid. You have now added that the beginning is 20 years which is all in any case quite favourable for those young people who for the first time resolve their housing issue. In addition to all the benefits that I have mentioned and which contribute from the workers themselves who work in this activity to citizens who first enter the situation that have to resolve their housing issue and to the very construction that comes to craftsmanship and start a new cycle of construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49919	Thank you. Next, a colleague, Damir Cain, signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49920	I will first invite Mr. Kunst to open his eyes and keep them open as he held them when he was one of the union champions in the Republic of Croatia. For seven years now, Mr. Kunst, we've been lying to ourselves. We've been cheating that everything in this country is wonderful. Those who are telling the truth, as you just called me, are catastrophics, these are freaks, and the numbers are inexorable. You mention yourself that last year in construction, we ran out of 14 thousand jobs, that in construction only this year it cost 6 thousand people without a job, that at that number of 150 thousand people between 7 and 10 thousand of them in construction, that on the day of February 28th, we had 317 thousand unemployed. It is fortunate that February had 2 days less than it would have had March, if it hadn't had 320 thousand unemployed. In one word, let's get serious and take part in the responsibility for the opportunities we live in. We're also going to have a decline in gross products this year, we're going to have a rise in the unemployed maybe up to 350 thousand, a fall in real wages, a rise in the deficit of the state budget, probably more taxes if zero rates are lifted, a drop in consumption of 5 to 10%, a drop in profits by 10%, a drop in investment and so on. The IDS was in the 3rd of January government for a year and two months, but today and from that position, and I may have been one of their most fierce critics, I can say that she was a kind mother to this one, and God and the opportunities in that country were a sweet mother to what awaits us under this authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49921	Replication response, colleague Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49922	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, I've been keeping my eyes open for a long time but you know the problem is that you've changed, because your rhetoric as long as I keep my eyes open and I remember when you chipped in that power, your rhetoric wasn't what it is today. That's when you kept your mouth shut, and the situation was 340,000 people without a job. That's when you factored in the government. Everyday strikes, generals, whatever, pay cuts, that's when you kept your mouth shut. Today you have finally spoken when you are not in power to criticize others who are in power. And that's fine, it's a job of opposition, and yet I support you there, because otherwise what we would do here in the bench, we would sit back and waste time. It's good anyway, but being such a disaster I think it's already, you've spent it, you realize, you've spent it, it's not working out for you anymore, it's not drinking water, it's not drinking water, it's looking at you, and I like you when I listen to you, but you've already spent it, it's being spent on the rhetoric of disaster. But look, you said yourself that you support this law, and you criticize it. If he's criticizing something, I won't support it, why would he support it? Try to make one of your draft laws and go out with your bill, not support something, and criticise the order because you know that some people, viewers, maybe your voters, and so on. So it is convenient for them to hear what you will say and again express your disastrous vision of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49923	Thank you. And the final application for replica, colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49924	You're telling your colleague Kunst that this law will help citizens get to the apartment more easily. They won't, and they won't. I don't know if you're following real estate prices, but the real estate has been collected by the very announcement of this law for 200 euros, just as much as the law provides for a loan to the citizens. So the builders calculated it this way, quite logically, the government would certainly propose, and the majority of the congregation would certainly vote for this bill. Therefore, citizens will be loaned money for that 200 euros per square square and for that we will raise the price of real estate and have done so. The law hasn't even been passed yet. It's the very announcement of the law. Therefore, this law will not help the citizens, it will help them. They will now have to pay the property more expensively, although for the 200 euros they will get money from the government, she will lend them that money, they will have to pay it back after 20 years, but this law is not helping them. The apartments are built, and they're not sold, why? Well, because people don't have money. There is one general uncertainty in the country, people every day 500 lose their jobs, 317 thousand so far unemployed, 70,000 for work, and no pay. I don't know what the number of those who work for a certain time and who can't raise bank loans because there's no bank that will give them credit if they're received for a certain time. So people are poor, people are hungry, not able to buy apartments. So they can't buy bread, they don't know if they'll have money tomorrow, not apartments. And now with this bill of law, not that they're going to be reduced by the price of squares of the apartment, I'm telling you, it's increased. They'll pay the same, they'll pay more, you won't help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49925	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49926	... I would agree, in any case, that we all have to fight together those who raise the prices of apartments and it is unargumented and I said in my debate that I really think that many of the prices of apartments are too high and whatever the builder in his calculations will find an excuse for that price of apartment. [[Specially enabled.]] But the thesis you brought here, it's uncovered. You're about to set your own thesis like this, because of this bill that's already being proposed, the builders have raised the price by 200 euros, and now we're going to borrow, the government is going to sort of compensate and about nothing is going to happen, again, the price of the apartment has been raised. I really don't know where, because to know that, that's the fact, that based on some bill someone raises the price of 200 euros, it really should have that kind of information. Unfortunately, I don't have it and I don't believe it. However, through this bill of law or this law that will be passed is just trying to influence these builders. So it would certainly be cheaper for them to sell an apartment than if it were empty to them, I don't know how long, to lower their price of apartment and allow people right through these loans that the state gives to citizens, and I believe that you're not against it because yourself, your rhetoric is always so social with all these charges so chargeable that you're certainly not against helping that poor woman, these young people in that purchase of the apartment. So we're doing one good thing, so I believe that the SDP will support this law because I don't see any reason to be smart against something that goes in favour of citizens, young people to solve their elemental question, and that's the apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49927	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go, fellow Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49928	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Madam Minister with your associates. This measure will help not unfortunately citizens, but will help one part of the government and another part of certain entrepreneurial groups. The government will help because in this critical situation that is in Croatia, it will take a turn in this law, one measure that seems to help citizens to have their attention in Croatia. Things don't buy because people don't have money. Things are not bought because of what is worth in Croatia and there is great uncertainty in force. Things aren't being bought because Croatian citizens can't plan their perspective in this country and can't decide to buy an apartment because they're not sure if they're going to work tomorrow, whether they're going to stay employed and eventually be able to pay off those apartments and these loans. It is the core of the problem, and it is not the core of the problem whether the price of the apartment is higher than 100 or 200 euros, or lower than 100 or 200 euros. While there is no consumption, while there is no perspective there will be no better situation in any industry, not even in construction. So here I admit this measure helps the government draw attention to the right things, which is a loss of jobs, and that is a growing standard of Croatian citizens every day. Others benefiting from this law are builders and banks. Banks which will, in this way, release a little of their balance sheet and where certain loans that are currently speculative will be closed in some ways. And that's where we help banks that already make a very good living in our country. But let's help the banks sell these apartments more easily and get their mortgages off those unsold apartments. And the builders who look at miracles don't lower prices even though the apartments don't sell. Well, the elemental postulate of the market is if you don't sell at a certain price, you lower it to make the price real, so it can be sold. So, the builders do not lower prices but hold them and at this point the average price of the apartment in Croatia is 1679 euros while the average square of the country is 100 euros. So now you tell me that in this difference, that is, when an apartment, house or house is built and there is no room for the price to be reduced. There's plenty of room for prices to go down, but the builders keep the prices. It is their capital, and now we help them get to it more easily, not in a way that lowers prices and sells apartments, but that prices remain the same or even increases. So there are two groups that are directly assisted here. One is banks, the other is builders. And of course, I told the government to draw attention to those topics that are most important at the moment in Croatia, which is a recession, employment and crisis that this government does not offer any perspective and does not offer at least anything to give Croatian citizens the security that will be better in the coming years. I wonder, if we help young people in this way buy their first apartment, make it cheaper for them, which is why we do not help those up to 30 years of age who do not have employment and who are the highest percentage on the Croatian labour market. As many as 103,000 people under the age of 30 are sitting without a job at home, but there is no measure. That's where we took the measure from college to work. There are measures worth hiring for the first time in a man's life, but for young people, the measures have been reduced in recent years. And we took that off, but here we are now helping builders sell their own I would say capital that will then come to their profit, and from that Croatian citizens will have nothing. So 103,000 people under 30 are on the market right now. 317 000 people are unemployed. We don't do anything here, but we do to those who are rich enough to keep unsold apartments, to help them get their capital. And what can we do? And what can we do, gentlemen, to turn that capital around, to make these apartments cheap, the price of squares, etc. So here's a simple proposal. Give me a tax on property that stands like that. Someone who has deliberately kept the price of the apartment high for two, three years and has no need to sell taxes on that apartment, so one will be forced to reduce the price to 1300, 1200 or 1100 euros. It will not hold the price of an apartment at 1600 or 2000 euros if it costs it 100 euros per year per square year. That's what you can do and there would be a decrease in the price of a square meter apartment to make it. It's another thing. Guarantee people who are out of a job that a year won't have to pay off a housing loan or that the state will assume what the real estate agencies are proposing. And make sure that in these uncertain times, if they run out of work, Croatian citizens have at least a year guarantee that someone will stand behind them. You can do this and there will be market response, i.e. citizens who will be braver and enter such a purchase and in some way from credit to buy an apartment. Or a third. Bring a bill in which banks would be bound by what the SDP had proposed if someone had no job in that year to suspend their rent for a year. We can do that, too. So these three things that are directly directed towards citizens you won't suggest, but you're proposing what will help builders get their money that obviously doesn't take them that long when they don't cut the price of squares. The price of squares would not be an average of 1679 euros in Croatia, 2 and a half thousand in Split or 2000 in Zagreb that these people need cash, that they need money in some way to cover their expenditures. They keep the price of squares on purpose and they don't want to bring them down. And we're going with this law to make it even more worthwhile for them in the future and keep the prices of the squares of the apartment higher. At the end of the country when you look at this law, it's nothing and it doesn't help. She says 100 million kunas should be provided, and the state budget will provide 113 million kuna from VAT. So, even more countries will get from this unsold asset than what will help Croatian citizens. So again, it's about a spin where the simple state is not helping Croatian citizens with a single kuna, but helping itself to get away with the topics that are important today, to distract attention from the important topics and help builders to get their money easier, so it doesn't help citizens absolutely nothing. And now I'm going to tell you one more thing. It is said in the introduction of the law that 2 thousand and 315 apartments at this time or at that moment were not sold on the market, squares... Thousands of square meters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now you tell me when we're taking care of these people. Which is why we don't worry, I took out a real estate eyewitness from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, at this point 684 is an exercise over the real estate of Croatian citizens. So to us entrepreneurs are more important, these 2,000 unsold apartments than these 700 people who at this point, or... people at this point who are on the job, who cannot repay their loans and who will lose their property tomorrow, or in one year as many as 7,000 of them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are of no importance to us, but those who have billions of kunas of unsold capital are important to us, and they won't lower the price. And so this government treats its citizens, and so this government shows to whom it in some way shows a desire to protect it, and on the other hand puts Croatian citizens aside. 7,000 people are finished this year, they're out of real estate, but not a word about them. But that's why we'll help the entrepreneurs, the builders who own unsold apartments, to make it easier for them to get their money. Of course we cannot support such a way and such a policy that is proclaimed by this HDZ government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49929	Thank you. We have a few corrections, a few replicas. Let's go with the corrections first. Dear colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect for a colleague not to help the citizens with this law. It's just that citizens are being helped by this law, because they can be users of this loan. Only citizens who want to buy an apartment for the first time or an apartment bigger than their own. So it only helps them, indirectly, to help the construction sector, of course to help those 150 thousand construction workers, to help them survive, to keep their jobs. What are you talking about? They'll buy those who are employed, who can pay off. They'll buy those who count to have a start of 20 years, that they'll have on this loan. So a possible beginning. So only citizens. Who can raise this loan? Only citizens who want to buy an apartment, and on the terms that are written here. And the other thing is, it's not true that the prices of apartments are rising. The prices of apartments can be read in the media. Prices of apartments are dropping. Read it in the media. You can see, list every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49931	Thank you, colleague Matušić. So he applied for a correction of the alleged esteemed colleague Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49932	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maras, I don't know why so much bile and so much inaccuracy you said in your debate, because I'd bet the SDP will back this bill, so there's no need to be so bile. That's the first one. Secondly, look at the incorrect thesis of just helping the construction sector. He told you there's a colleague, Matušić, so why are you so demeaning or ignoring 150 thousand people who make their existence come true in this sector? Well, they should live, too, or you don't think they should, that we need 150 thousand people just to put them naked and barefoot. Second, the thesis about picking up the apartment. Look, I believe you might be reading "The Evening List." That's where you get those real estate contributions in the middle. And if you look at it lately then you'll and you might notice that the prices of the apartment in that report are constantly dropping. So it's incorrect for your claim to grow. And next, I think this is better not to comment on what I think about what you said about citizens not planning their perspective in Croatia. Listen, I don't know maybe it's you in the SDP you've done research so some don't plan, but I think that the citizens of Croatia who live here don't have another country and are certainly planning their future in this country, no matter how difficult the present is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49933	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague Stjepan Milinković has applied for correction of the quote. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49934	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Maras incorrectly stated that this measure would not help the citizens, which is absolutely incorrect. When young people buy an apartment and go into such an operation, each wheel can certainly help very well, meaning from more favourable credit conditions, than more favourable interest and deposit, and so on, every moment can, but I am more saddened by this part of it that you have somehow crashed on the builders. So the promoter does not dispute here that, of course, builders should allow these means to start a new cycle and save jobs that you're so full of mouths are behind. Every job is precious and certain if this procedure is kept and any place of work should be welcomed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49935	Thank you very much. Correction of the quote, Zeljko Turk. Here you go, buddy Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49936	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm going to correct two false allegations of Mr. Maras's esteemed colleague, and the builders don't need money and b) the state doesn't help with this loan, because in contrast, she got some new money. Well, in fact, it's actually an insult to 150,000 builders that builders don't need money. The fact is that all these people are working somewhere, but at the same time they're our builders and our citizens, so I'd like to ask my colleague Maras, when we talk about them, that we have in mind and that fact, and when we talk about that the state isn't helping because it's expected through... The effects and some new VAT, I comment on and say the state helps, but thank God that it proposes measures that ultimately give and counter effects on some of the new revenues in the city budget, in the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49937	Thank you. And the correction of the quote, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49938	So here I am correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Marassa prices did not fall. Well, my colleague Maras may be here in the center of Zagreb, maybe in the northern part, but here's 15 kilometers east, you have as many apartments as you want per thousand euros per square. Come over there, come to the investors and they'll still bring down the prices. Therefore, it is not true that prices are held. They don't. They buy furniture, rent and stuff. Secondly, it's not, it's certainly not spin to help citizens, and it's actually helping investors. In my opinion, spin is when you promise customers that you'll pay off loans instead, which is certainly not done by anyone in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49939	Thank you very much. We have three applications for replication. Dear colleague Jerko Roshin. Here's your colleague, Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The colleagues of Marasu would be replicating, not correcting the quote, but rather talking and arguing about the the thesis that he or I are presenting, because, unlike colleagues of Kajin, they are exact figures, exact figures and can be trusted, one or the other conclusions can be drawn from them, but in any case, the basis for the conclusion exists. Thus, the claim of 1679 euros per square metre of an average price of 100 euros per metre per square metre is quite realistic and perceptible, but I am still not learning from it for the law. And it's actually my dispute with your exposure. Because I'd stay in the section of the bill and what the law treats, what it's referred to, what it wants to solve, not the thesis that absolutely stands, but they're not the subject of this law. The issue of the number of unemployed, etc., which we can comment on whether this contributes or not. But the framework you're talking about and the key to my replica is the question of the market. It is certain that the market works as it can, that these prices are as they can be achieved. However, here the legislator has taken a specific segment of that market and is helping only a specific segment of the market, prices from 1000 to 1600 euros and we are not talking about another. So if we know that there are prices on the market from 2000 euros to 3200, 3500 or 5000 euros then the government thought, and I think it's normal that the government is in its interest to draw attention to the topics that sound good in the public rather than the other. As legitimate of the opposition to this, the government has just said that a particular segment of the market, a particular segment of the prices that can be reached, is also referred to those that would possibly buy it, is now stimulating. So it's not about one general phenomenon, it's not about stimulating any price, it's only about prices that are limited to 1600. And I have to point out in this as specific a number as you at 1600 stimulation is 6%, and to 1,000 is 30 percent stimulation. It may not be so visible in numbers from 100 to 300, but it's very pronounced in percentages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49941	Thank you, colleague Roshin. Replication response, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49942	Thank you very much, colleague Roshin. You're right, I think there's a difference between stimulation at 1600 and 1000 euros. What I was about to say in my discussion and what some colleagues may have misunderstood. I didn't say these 150,000 people don't need money. Apparently their bosses don't need money. Because let me explain how it is possible if the average price of the apartment is 1679 euros, if it is known that it can be correctly built, then POS is building 800, 900, 1000 euros, so there is a 600 euro difference, of course regardless of the land price, because there is no price of the country's square so much that it can really charge those 600 euros. Why aren't the prices coming down? Number one, because those who invested in these properties are their profits, and now we help them get that profit easier. It is not about 150 thousand people who are employed in the sector, nor will it reach them. Because these two and a few thousand apartments certainly didn't build 150 thousand people, they might have built a thousand. So let's not talk about the whole industry and 150 thousand people, and we're covering a market that might be 0.5% of that industry. I mean, it's a replacement of thesis and a distraction from the problem. 150 thousand people certainly have no use for this law in construction. There may be 1,000 people, but surely 150 owners or 250 investors benefit and benefit the most. And that's the point of my debate, and that's the point of what I wanted to say. No 150,000 people from the building.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49943	Thank you. Dragutin Bodakoš, colleague of honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49944	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister. Well, colleague Maras would like to replicate in this area when you said that construction and banks are primarily being helped. Well, I think in all this debate and the corrections that are going towards you are just confirming one thing, and the least helpful in this case is to the citizens. Why is it the least helpful to the citizens? Well, it's exactly what you see and when you see an ankle. 7. where spoken, and no criteria are listed the size of the apartment in the sale of an existing apartment for the purchase of larger ones for the needs of housing. What does that mean? That means it doesn't matter that individual, it doesn't matter any social case. Because you can sell a 100-square apartment that you're single and say I need to live in a 120-square apartment. So I think what Mr. Vidovic was saying on behalf of the club and Mr. Vidovic, the question of criteria and the question of not saying the superficiality of this law goes towards one, which is to help whom? It helps those who built those apartments, and today they can't sell them. And why can't I sell them? Because the state of people's purchasing power is like this, and who's going to be able to get the most through this kind of funding? They'll be able to buy a 100-square apartment, and that's their first apartment, sell for that apartment, and buy a 120-square apartment. Therefore, the definition of how and how it will be referred, whether to square, whether to make tax breaks or what is most important to the number of members of that household. I think it's very important to buy a new apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49945	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49946	Thank you very much. Mr. Bodakosh, if there will be those who will buy and use this relief, it will certainly not be citizens who torture with their wages. It will be citizens who have money, who are not at risk of losing their jobs, who don't work, who work, who receive salaries. We have 50,000 Croatian citizens who work and do not receive salaries and who in some way are not even now in the need to help them in this way. It will be one part of the citizens who will go into the purchase of the apartment anyway, and this way the state will lend them money for 20 years. So we're not going after those citizens who really need help. But what I was about to say is, if we want to help young people, we can help young people find a job for them. Well, you don't have to give a young man in Croatia a cheaper apartment if he doesn't have a job to buy or pay for it. And there's a whole thesis, that is, a whole sequence of events. Well, I guess a man needs to be given money, he needs to have spending money to buy something. And on the other hand, to encourage consumption through it to be a cheaper price, and there's no one to buy. It's only for entrepreneurs to be helped here. Again, I say not to builders, Croatian workers, because they won't have too much of it. God knows we've helped them over all these years, so let's say on the road construction we didn't import so much stuff from imports of iron, etc., maybe we wouldn't have strikes at the Irons Split, hunger strikes. We didn't help the builders, we only help entrepreneurs get their money easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49947	Thank you very much, we still have the last line, dear colleague Stazic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49948	So, fellow Maras, do you know what the effects will be? And of all the government's moves so far. The government has made a decision that there must be a reduction in wage mass in public enterprises. Of them 22 per 16 is an increased wage mass. And now that's where HDZ's deputies are stuck to convince us that citizens will benefit from this law, I assure you they won't. If the government really cared about citizens, then it would lend to citizens when they buy any real estate, not new property, old properties, old apartments are cheaper, among other things cheaper because they do not need to be paid VAT. So the state would say, well, the government would say, we've poored you, we've ruined you, we've destroyed your existence, but here we'll help you out a little if you want to buy an apartment, here we'll lend you money, but you can buy the cheapest and buy an old apartment if you find it. But it's not to the government to the citizens, which is, to you, what kind of citizens, the SDP has been proposing to introduce a moratorium to pay off the housing loans to those who have lost their jobs, because of the activity of this government, because of the incompetence of this government, people are left without a job. The SDP suggests let's go help these people it's not their fault that this government is incompetent, I am so much, those who voted for it, they've made a mistake they won't again. And, don't thank me, when he starts blinking, then tell me thank you. And now that the SDP has proposed a moratorium, the government has rejected it, what kind of citizens, as if it were to the government to the citizens, what's wrong with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49949	The answer to the replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49950	A colleague of Stazic's that the government cares about citizens would then take care, you said that the moratorium on loan is being paid, I am here asking Minister Matulović-Dropulić a question which is why there is no measure according to at this time 684 conduct at this time being conducted by Croatian real estate courts of Croatian citizens who can't pay because they've lost their jobs, because they have no funds for it, because of the crisis in Croatia, there is no measure. But 2300 flats of tycoon construction will be dealt with. There are no problems, we will help them, but 684 Croatian families are currently left without their apartment, house or other property, during the year as many as 7,000 of them. Here's a word about these things, there's not a single letter, and there's no letter I said again, according to Croatian citizens who are currently 317 thousand unemployed on the labour market. Nothing to them, but according to these 20 or 50 construction contractors everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49951	Minister Matulović Dropulic, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49952	Well, I really don't know what we have to say that we don't talk all the time about tycoons, not people who work for them. It's something unimaginable there are small companies that have five people, who have 20 people, who have 100 people employed by it, we're talking exclusively about these people being supposed to go on with their jobs. But as far as these errands are concerned, have you checked how much work it is for what? Is it just about real estate, if it's about cars, if it's about who knows other things. So it's a much more serious problem to get into, essentially, so we're going to measure by measure. No one is saying that such a measure will not come to order, but if measures are to be taken we must try to do everything in each segment to see what we will do. And what you think this government is incompetent is all you can think of. This government knows what it's doing, and all the ministers here know what they're doing, of course you don't think so, and we and our people must think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49953	Thank you. Correction to the quote of colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49954	Thank you very much. I will correct Madam Minister's allegations that this law allows people to remain employed especially by 150 thousand workers in the construction industry. Madam Minister, in the bill of law, it reads 2315 apartments, so it's not possible that 2315 apartments built 150 thousand employees, so it says and you're saying it, and I'm telling you that it's not true, that only entrepreneurs of construction, tycoons who will benefit from any employees in the construction industry are favored here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49955	Let's move on with the debate. A colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49956	Mr. Vice President, Your Honors Minister. You say the government knows what it's doing, and beyond any doubt that you know what you're doing, you well know what you're doing in the government, but this knowledge of yours costs Croatia such a situation that Croatia simply became a country of absurdity, a country where people work and don't get paid. They don't work for state-owned companies, of course, but they get paid. A country where the government isn't responsible for anything, and it's responsible for everything, because this morning the sun is shining. Namely, this amount of numerous absurdities is here and this not the bill's proposal, but the fact itself, and now it wants to deepen such an absurd situation that in Croatia it is such a situation that not only young families but also people in mature, almost in perilous years who have grandchildren living in sub-population and that the problem of the apartment is a random question, which Dostoyevsky would say, the question of solving the apartment is the psychology of a man, a man without an apartment is a man without psychology. You know it well, I know your knowledge. But in fact, the absurd is that the apartments are built, over 2,000 stands locked apartments unsold, and those sold have no consumption, no energy, no families. And here we heard colleagues from HDZ say the truth is that apartments are expensive. Because that's the situation, or why it is, because the apartments are square meters of the apartment is bigger than in Manhattan, which is what we're talking about. There are 9-year buildings in Zadar, or 9 apartments that haven't been sold for two years, so you in the government wondered what these companies live on when they don't sell or work. Is it necessary to inform you of the US State Department, should you be informed by the European Commission and their specialized department of Money Laundering Money and which says that Croatia is an ordinary money launderer and that money launderers are therefore those who have acquired illegal funds no one has asked them. No one asked them how they were in '97. I've acquired huge assets. And what are they doing? They invest in real estate, invest in construction. Construction operations for them are very tempting. And it should be that weed that got into this honorable business, because, of course, housing is one of the biggest promoters of economic growth, because it really benefits everyone, but when it's made with healthy legs. But here in such a combination when we're like that, such structures that don't touch. These are the unindicted and indictees who are prominent citizens. That's something to take care of. And that's why the consequences are what they are. Every apartment in the recession, their price drops, with us only slightly. And they won't lower the price and they can survive and no one asks them for anything. No one asked them where they got the funds they invested in the construction operation. No one's alive so he hasn't asked. And now please, you would not be helping all of them by separating the sick from the healthy. And you have a proposal for a law to encourage the sale of apartments. So you're saying you're about to encourage the sale of apartments. In your explanation, talk about how it will benefit our citizens. You'll get them into new troubles and those who trust you, so the whole family's in charge of taking advantage of that one little discount. With interest at 20 years of 2%, but that's interest on the entire amount, it's interkalary interest. That's expensive interest. And you will now bring such people into the existing army of people who bought apartments, who were in charge, and you have counted on what kind of stability you and this government have promised them, and now you say, we are not guilty of anything. You're out of a job. So what difference does it make, what a horror to impose taxes on banks on unfounded interest increases, because they hunt in a blurry one. Austria handles it, you don't. It's a big horror for you. But it's also a big bother for you to protect a working worker who doesn't get paid, that his flats, and even his fatherland goes to the drum. That was a smooth rejection of such suggestions, and then how to believe and who believes you in promises when you keep new promises. Well, your promises really look like those escalated inscriptions on the old kitchen rags. Well, whoever's smart enough to believe it and can believe it. Because when HDZ saves, when HDZ promises again, then really a man passes the will to be saved. Because you see what that breath of yours looks like. Namely, helping those who do not want to lower the price of squares, which is exactly how some buildings were built and if everything was on healthy feet, they would naturally respond to supply and demand. They'd be one anchor. And we don't have that. After all, we do not have a single housing national strategy, where we would be built and see what was good from POS's apartments and such housing to encourage further. Where are the rentals, social housing? The same political set is in power and in Zadar. That's where you see it. And then how do you believe when there's an increase in the municipal contribution by 2.5%, and you say you want to boost the construction operation. And that's where the communal contribution increased by 2.5 times. Why? Well, it's clear to everyone why. That the unsold ones, those expensive apartments are sold, because they're not sold. First, it was difficult with construction permits, so when the marifetteluk had already come to an end and hatched, the municipal contribution now increased by 2.5%. There are no social housing that there are funds, which the law said had to be spent on. Well, there's something wrong with it, so you can't pretend the government isn't responsible for it. The situation is, we are declaring ourselves independent of such a situation. You're in a difficult conflict with facts. And you spent all your strength fighting for a better look. When you're being criticized and proposed, so I agree with that, so don't. Let's act like a responsible opposition. When we suggest something, you refuse, when we criticise it, there is an existing situation that is difficult to deepen further. You say what you're doing... and that's the only answer. So this government needs to drive through the mirror, look back. The people who trusted you asked you to be a reflector. The responsible hair looks ahead. You keep turning back and thus eliminate your critics. Namely, the price of a square meter in each normal country cannot be higher than the average salary. After all, it is quite clear that in Croatia, the construction lobby you are helping has been linked to the banks. The banks are hunting in the mud, you've made it possible for the banks, what their colleagues have been saying, fiduciary. So, that they don't go into business at all, that they automatically lose one or two wars without any real estate. So where's the social security? So what's their special status? Every believer has to go into the executive procedure. But banks are fiduciary, for them there is no executive procedure. How in Austria can now put a loan, i.e. an increased tax, and that is, a special tax on bank profits. Also in Italy, extraprofit tax is amazing to you. Those are the right measures. You must be concerned about those people who are going to lose their apartment today, who are afraid that tomorrow will be able to pay off their loans. And you refused the moratorium to pay off those loans, you refused unfounded interest, that is, our legal proposal on an increased tax, on unfounded interest on housing loans. And now this measure should seem life-saving. Therefore, Croatia really needs a national housing policy, a strategy in which local self-government units could then find their incentive to build social housing, to build POS apartments and they would indeed set the right price for the apartment and not for this bloated one, which is so far, which is not going to blow up with this law, but rather.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49957	Thank you very much. We'll start with the corrections of the quote first. Dear colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the government is not in conflict with facts. My colleague, you are in conflict with facts. You do not want to acknowledge the fact that this law pleases the citizens of Croatia who want to buy the first apartment and who want to buy a bigger apartment than they have now and do not want to acknowledge the fact that it suits employees of construction companies. So you're in conflict with facts. And secondly, it is incorrect that the European Commission has said that Croatia is a money laundromat, which is never said by the European Parliament, it is a lie that you made today. Don't blacken your own country for what's really not true. Apparently, in this House, some people need a headwasher, not from the outside, but from the inside.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49959	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49960	In this second part of my colleague Matušić has violated the Rules of Procedure of Article 209 because my exact quote that you can find on the internet that was published is the specialized institution of the European Commission report Manneyval which is sub-strattically and which you can find and where it stands, it is a report from two years, two and a half years ago, where exactly it says that Croatia has become a money laundromat. Please see the reports that are publicly published and that can be found on the Internet today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49961	Thank you very much. If we're gonna read all the reports like that, we're not gonna get anywhere. ... So I see you're with tiles and latets. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Matušić's injury is further. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49962	Mr Vice-President, the article was also injured in 209 because colleagues are not true, the European Commission has never said in its progress report on Croatia that Croatia is a money launderer. Don't deceive the public because of your SDP interests. And don't tarnish the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49963	Let's leave the monexvales and all the other oxen. And we're moving on with a correction to Boris Kunst's quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49964	Well, here's the fact that fellow Anticevic always has such a likable opposition rhetoric, but now she's said a series of inaccuracies, so I'm only going to look back on one thing, it's that the government is going to get citizens into trouble through this bill. Comrade Antičević, ask those citizens, those young people who will buy apartments if the government will really get them into trouble if it gives them a loan with a start of 20 years, if they do not have to deposit for the purchase of the apartment, if they give them a loan of 100 to 300 euros per square metre of apartment etc. So ask those workers not to mention employees in the construction industry, ask those workers somewhere who don't receive their wages because unfortunately they haven't been able to sell these apartments and can't be paid their wages, do they also think that the government is putting them in trouble with this bill. Then, you know when you keep mentioning why we're going back. You know, the one who's ashamed of his past doesn't have a future.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49965	Co-worker Šolic reported for a correction of the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49966	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative Anticevic told the truth in her debate that the apartments are too expensive and that no one can buy them and the comparison made them the same prices in some other countries as in Croatia. I will bring you closer to the picture, which is true that in the city of Zagreb you have apartments if you didn't know a thousand hundred euros in Sesvedi and there are 6 thousand. These apartments were made on a proposal from your candidate, which you have run four times for mayor of Mr Bandic and Zagreb Holding. They're so unquality they won't even open a store in those apartments. Comrade Antičević, and as for your comparisons with the worn-out cloth, your party proves and shows that the worn-out cloth has been cracked onto multiple stitches.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49967	Correction of the alleged colleague Stjepan Milinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Kunst, in part, corrected the incorrect allegations by counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic that this law will not help the citizens but will get them into new troubles. Absolutely incorrect. So I'm asking you, dear colleague, if getting into trouble is a relief of credit terms, lower interest, a start and so forth. But I'm also asking if getting into trouble and keeping a job and that armyman, plumber, carpenter or any other citizen. I think it's hard to stand up for the jobs we hear about on your side and be against it at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49969	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. First of all, my colleague Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49970	Thank you. When you give someone a benefit so they can buy an apartment and he doesn't have a job, then you give him nothing. 37% of the working capacity of the population in Croatia is not working. That's the biggest problem, and there's an Anticevic colleague right there. And besides, those polls were some, so you could hear people say that. Don't give us anything, give us a job, and we'll pick up the loans and buy apartments. See, that's what I come from Split. There are 15 thousand people on the verge of losing their jobs in Split. There are no 40,000 people working in Split right now. It is 12% of all Croatia's unemployed. What it means now is that you're giving that mass of unemployed and those who are at the unemployment door, and that together would be about 55,000 people, you say we're going to give you benefits to buy apartments, helicopters, or it doesn't matter suit. I'm just asking if we've even figured out where the problem is. The problem is elsewhere, not to say so, there's no one against making it easy for someone to get to something, but if he's moving from nothing to him, then you're messing with him. This government needs to solve the problem of unemployment, then people will be able to solve it themselves. So don't give us anything, give us a job. That's what they take from you in Dalmatia, so they get 20 back and they say they gave you something. Don't take anything from us, just don't help us, but don't take anything from us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49971	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49972	Well, that's exactly what you fellow citizens say, so citizens, especially small craftsmen say we don't need anything either of your subsidies or help, just don't take it away from us, but in order for these others, this caste, privileged, these capitalist barons, to have. He can't, so we simply live a colleague under this authority in capitalist one-mania. Capitalism is almost here... and this measure is nothing else, which is presented as a measure of assistance but helping the team sell these apartments, to sell these apartments that they say are expensive because the price of land is large. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, the ransom price is high. And when some units of local self-government sell it, then 2 euros are sold by the sea. And all this is happening in Croatia and the government is not guilty of anything. We're not, they're units of some local self-government. There's such a price here. You say in Split that's the situation. So in Zadar, apartments that have been sold are empty, it's like a ghost settlement and people with already grown children are tenants. Social housing is not being built, public audit every year says you have to build social housing. No apartment since 2002 has been made socially and there is an increase in municipal contribution. While the same political furniture here represents us at the state level, it is so nice to encourage the construction industry on the other hand in Zadar that the municipal contribution is increasing. You can imagine who that decision was made with.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49973	Thank you. First one notice. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will be held today at 14:00 in the "Janka Draškovića" hall, second floor, 202, committee chairman Dragica Zgrebec. And follow the replica of the esteemed colleague Roshin. Here you go, Comrade Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49974	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When my colleague Ingrid spoke so vividly then she mentioned that kitchen cloth and that rag above the spate, which would be so one of my conditional reflexes is... Until some association, "the housewives don't get your food on fire." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how I thought of it. But in any case, everything that my colleague Ingrid said is worth a good lipo fighting about, about those points, of course Parliament isn't a place to fuck, so if we're going to have lunch together down at the restaurant, we can talk about everything. If it's even better on a diet because there's blood in me, so I'm gonna spend less on it, and I'm gonna handle what I had with Ingrid eventually. However, her debate shows everything that has been so far, that in fact in this assembly on the opposition side she does not want to discuss much about this law, the value of the law, the lack of possible law, the possible improvement of the law rather than precisely because this law has touched on an interesting topic that solves more problems at the same time, and buying and selling, just as a positive example of something then avoids the subject and draws attention to other of course relevant topics. I'm not saying that employment issues aren't important, they're very important. It is very important to discuss the Strategy for a solution to the housing problem in Croatia and otherwise I have proposals to discuss in my debate, but that does not mean Ingrid that some things that are being resolved should not be solved if they can be resolved even if it is a fire measure. Wherever you see a fire should be extinguished if you can shut it down. I'll keep the rest in my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49975	Thank you, Comrade Roshin. This offer and how much cost are given only when your colleague answers, and she applied for a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49976	Thank you, Vice President. Here's fellow Roshin, with this part of it, especially when you said there's a little debate about the law itself, so we're talking about generality, the consequences, and so you're right because this law, that we're talking about it... But he's not, you can't analyze him at all because he's swarming primarily nomotechnically catastrophicly is written. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is indeed the right skill to show such a degree of ignorance in the making of the law in just 25 articles. Ignorance of parallel legislation, so it's just said if they're married, there's no mention of an extramarital community. So it's said that the guy who sells the apartment, if he already has a smaller apartment, would like to compete for a bigger apartment that the state will subsidize or give me credit, says when he sells the apartment, and it's not said that he sold the apartment. Therefore, the unwarranted possibilities of abuse are here. On this point, outside members and law professors had an unusually large number of objections on the Committee on Legislatives. Here's an example of Article 3. In all the questions regarding the conclusion of the contract, the mandatory right does not know questions about the conclusion of the contract, there are contracts, contractual obligations, there are contractual chapters, so there is a language that serves a particular profession, and this is done more or less inextricably and then leaves the possibility of various abuses, that these measures also benefit those who would choose, who have no intention of selling any apartment because they say they sell. After all, he doesn't have to, I repeat, or sell the apartment. It is spoken with the corresponding interest, there should be interest because it is about interest in the plural, etc., etc. The constitutional opposition of this law has already been discussed because it can certainly cause a request for answers from the Constitutional Court itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49977	And the final application for the replica, distinguished colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49978	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ingrid, you just said that you doubt actually that citizens believe more promises at all. I'd say citizens are confused today, and why? It's precisely because Madam Minister said this law helps those who have no purchasing power. We're wondering who has it. If he's lucky to work, then we wonder if he's lucky he can get to his apartment at prices like this. And if that's what we're wondering if there's any luck, or if there's a chance of accepting such huge interest because you know that only from interest in the last year's profit of banks was over four, almost five billion kunas. So we're actually wondering what that means in that case, if we make a calculation at 80,000 euros at the price of 1,300 euros square, which means that 11% more favourable interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49979	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished colleague Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49980	We'd like a colleague's answer here. And that's why you're asking the same question before my colleagues. But we don't get an answer here except for political answers. What makes the government if it really cares so much that people get to the apartment? Well, I even believe that it's something that she's so imaginary about, and she just has to calm down some other people, and then it stays on some kind of rhetoric and some kind of desire for us to like people. But in real action, it really isn't. Because that's why the government refuses our legal proposal to save people, to stay who already bought the apartments. It's the same new apartment, year, two years, three years in that apartment. He'll be out of an apartment now. People are out of a job. Why does the government refuse our bill? So let him think of some better or extra profit to banks or dim them in any way to raise interest on housing loans. People in the current situation find it difficult to pay off loans, and they are threatening to stay out of work. A lot of people are out of work. It's heavy human drama. Who cares about them? Not a word. Because it's some kind of accident. That's not what the government is responsible for. Responsible for shining the sun, he showed up this morning, maybe what he was going to do. But the fact that people are out of work, that no one will protect them. Well, that's why the government is there to protect the weaker ones. These others take care of themselves anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49981	Thank you. She has now reported on the word of Honored Minister Matulović Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49982	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. If anyone speaks specifically, then we speak specifically. As for the total people who are without apartments in the Republic of Croatia. We own a million 225235 apartments. Our people live in apartments in the total number of households that use apartments is one million 477377. One part, meaning between a million and 200000 and a million and 400,000, these people work either live in relatives or live in tenants, and there are also in the tenants with a free rent of 42000. Of course, there are people who are homeless and we would like to do whatever we can so that these people can somehow buy apartments and that they can live as normal as anyone who has an apartment. We wouldn't have such a job demand if it weren't for the situation if there were people, young people who could buy apartments. And we have proposed this bill for these young people and proposed and prepared it. Because I said clearly at the beginning that we don't have enough locations to build POS apartments, because simply local self-government units don't have land anymore. Therefore, we must offer something else. We offered this proposal. Every proposal, of course, that unemployment is the biggest problem there is. Every proposal that can ensure that anyone is left at work, that one part of the people is not left without a job, we think that the government is obliged to prepare such a thing and has so far been prepared in these measures. As for small craftsmen, ask them how many of them have apartments that people paid for them as you call them tycoons, and the HUP calls them developers who paid for those works they didn't pay for in cash, but paid for them in apartments. Those craftsmen can't wait to sell these apartments and settle down the funds they can have. And one more thing. As for the care of the citizens of this Croatian house. We've solved 5974 victims of the Homeland War so far. We solved 10093 families we bought a house and apartment in the area of special state care. 1029 apartments have been solved for former tenant rights holders. A total of 146579 families who were completely rehabilitated in the destroyed areas were solved, meaning in areas of special state care and 4736 POS apartments were made. So we were very concerned, because this is how the 170 000 families in Croatia were taken care of. It's still being done, and it's still taking care of, because I've said nicely that this year alone is about a billion kuna. So we either bring me a strategy or not, it's our priority to get rid of these people. And to compare Croatia all the time with some countries that didn't have a war at all, who didn't get hurt at all, where people didn't live to say so in gymnastics halls and everywhere, so that's a big difference. Therefore, 170,000 families are ready. And of course, one day we will certainly be talking about trying to see and how to help those who today cannot repay those loans. But right now, we can't do that. This moment we cannot end all of these things in which the Croatian state invests, and it refers to housing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49983	Thank you. Correction by colleague Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49984	It is simply incorrect that there is no land on which the dwellings of those I spoke would be built. That's the answer I get in Zadar. And how does a private investor find land immediately? And one more thing. When you said how much money was spent building broken houses, the truth was we had a war, and that's an excuse, and it's an honor. That's what the government has been burdening before and will be burdening the future government. But those who exploited national patriotism, or showed not on the battlefield, but by destroying Serbian houses, make an account for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49985	Here you go, Minister. You can always get your word on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49986	I'm asking you very nicely, Madam Representative, that you don't speak in the first place this way because it has nothing to do with this rebuilding of the houses. We rebuild both Serbian houses and Croatian houses, all houses without any difference. Therefore, please don't talk about it and someone else will handle the courts, the state's attorney's office, etc. It solves everything that's connected to who knocked down or who hasn't knocked down. And as for the local self-government unit, how about in the city of Zadar or in another city, you ask why they don't have land to build POS apartments. Don't ask us that. We've been looking all over Croatia for land all along. We allowed the establishment of a special APN, and in Koprivnica that can secure land, and in Rijeka that could secure land, and in I don't know where we had the third APN. ... And in Varazdin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Those who could have secured the land. Why don't you in your only local self-government ask or force them to secure the land? The Croatian state has done one more thing and made a decision in the government that all countries, for every land that is state land, if it is going to build housing, are given APN to POS for free of charge. Therefore, the state of Croatia has done a ton of things to solve this, and you solve your problems around units of local self-government at home. Why they increased your municipal contribution two and a half times, why they don't have land. You've got to figure this out at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49987	Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49988	The correction of the incorrect quote is seen in that you call me why the HDZ in Zadar calls this. It's you... HDZ so as not to deceive the public. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] They're telling me to ask you upstairs. You're now pretending unskilled, as if you don't know what's going on in Zadar, and so are those worse who don't know what's going on here. But you got me wrong about that house rebuilding thing, and it's true that they're rebuilding, and I was saying something else, and so I'm asking it to make it right. That's where you got me really wrong, that's where you misunderstood me. I was talking about that isn't it enough that we've spent a huge amount of money... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49989	Let's not call our colleagues someone who's torn down like this. If you know who crashed... Please choose to report it, and generally call it that patriots have torn down Serbian houses in this great House you cannot. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can't get another word. Mrs. Holly, follow your debate further.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49990	Please hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49991	I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49992	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49993	Here you go. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49994	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49995	With what?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49996	You've violated Article 209's provision for throwing out my quote. I said that some of them are under this cloak to prove themselves in such a way... We went to the battlefield. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49997	You didn't say any, not even for God's sake.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49998	... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u49999	There's this video. Listen to yourself later. Mrs. Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50000	Thank you, Vice President. I would ask colleagues not to use my time for each other's comments. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to actually commend Mrs. Minister and her co-workers, the state secretaries who are here, meaning in a very strong delegation to defend this law before us parliamentary representatives and MPs, precisely because unfortunately we have very few opportunities to see ministers in this place and ministers, we are mostly looking at one state secretary. So I suppose from what they are here we can see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is very important to this law. At the very beginning, I would also like to say that I will not support this bill for a number of reasons, and I hope that my colleague Roshin will be pleased, given that I will speak precisely about concrete remarks and will deal with concrete articles of this law. Because in the beginning, only one indicative assessment of this law. I can say that this law shows that the construction sector in the Government of the Republic of Croatia has a very powerful friend and that is a good thing, but it is a pity that some other sectors may not have a strong friend in the government as well as the construction sector. One of the reasons why the proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia interprets, in fact, explains why this bill is passed, is to encourage the principle of the construction sector and to protect actually jobs in the construction sector. However, if the desire of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to protect the construction sector and to preserve jobs in the construction sector can be achieved in other ways than by passing this law, this bill. In fact, if I want to encourage construction, why not encourage construction projects that have long-term developmental and ecological potential, and I primarily think about renewable energy sources, and here I will remind myself of a sad case that we have recently witnessed in the media, which was about the fact that HROTE did not receive money from HEP for which citizens stand out in their accounts precisely for the promotion of renewable energy sources, and this was about millions of amounts, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not respond, and the HROTE's explanation for which he had not previously responded to this case was that there was no real interest in the sector or where there were not enough quality projects to promote renewable energy sources. I think it is absurd because I often meet with people who are interested in realising the projects of renewable energy sources, but there are a whole series of different brakes, and I am thinking primarily of regulations that are not at all encouraging the implementation of such projects, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not adopted the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, and I hope that this could also be an incentive to raise certain construction projects in the Republic of Croatia, but so far we do not see such ambition from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is also said in this introductory part of the law that during 2009, there was a significant stagnation in the sale of apartments on the real estate market, and I am asking whether maybe the reason is that too many apartments in the market, or that there was too much building of apartments on the market, or that simply more needs in the Republic of Croatia, at least in these urban centres are not so much that they could actually accept so many apartments on the market. It would also refer to this part where it is said that the decline in purchasing power of citizens is caused by the remaining lack of favourable and acceptable loans in the capital market for the purchase of apartments. And I think the government could have reacted in a different way. And she could tax-limit the size of such interest rates, which was ultimately proposed by the SDP, and in this way she might be more helpful to the citizens, as well as to builders, because citizens could make it easier to actually make loans to buy these new apartments. So, from this bill we can't see if any concrete analysis of what the needs for new apartments are, building new apartments in the Republic of Croatia. Are they even real? And whether or not citizens can buy such apartments because of loans or loans like this or not, we will not engage in any projects that are generally completely unnecessary and do not create any new value in the Republic of Croatia. I think the law is discriminatory to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for several reasons. In fact, he does not allow the purchase of old apartments that were here, he also makes it impossible to actually buy apartments for citizens who do not live in urban areas. Which means that in an unequal way, citizens living in cities who have these new apartments and those citizens who live in rural or rural areas are treated in an unequal way and where they are certainly not built and are not actually built like this. This also refers to the amount of 32 million 410 thousand 307 kuna and the 5 limes needed for the implementation of this law and which would actually be provided by the funds, i.e. the Long-term financing Fund of housing with the support of the state whose law is actually abolished by the adoption of this law. And I'm now asking one question, is this one way in which the state will actually get hold of this money that stands in this fund and thus ensure that these funds enter the state budget and are used in who knows what way? In fact, the way this law is written is whether citizens will actually be interested in using these funds that are being made available to them, because I tried to calculate if a buyer gets 15 thousand euros from the state by means of a loan means this law and if he has a 20-year start to pay the loan there is 2% interest in that period plus another 10 years in which he has to repay the loan he received from the state, meaning to those some 15 thousand euros he should actually pay back some 26 thousand euros. I don't think it's very favourable and very stimulating for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who want to realize the purchase of a new apartment. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 8th is said for what the loan is actually approved and it is said that the loan is only approved for the purchase of a new apartment and it is said that it should have a useful permit and that it has, means a performer who has the appropriate consent to carry out the work of construction under a special law. I don't really understand what that means? Does that mean I think he's got all the consent? So I'm guessing the use of the license meant he got all the consent he needed. Also, I don't know why it is determined that the loan will not be granted for the purchase of an apartment by a contractor who failed to comply with obligations on the basis of taxes, taxes and contributions by 01 July 2008. And why until that deadline? Why not until, say, 01.01.2010? Because from this I can in some way conclude that this law adapts itself to some concrete actually performers if nothing else. So I ask the question, what happens to the money from the fund if this law doesn't come to life? Since these money will be transferred to the state budget, I would like the minister to answer that question as well. And also in art. 21, it is said that the loan agreement must contain a statement from the borrower allowing the book of the mortgage. I assume that this mortgage will also have a bank that will lend credit to that apartment and how that mortgage will be shared between the state and the bank. Here it is, after all, because of all these remarks I made, I think the Government of the Republic of Croatia could use some other measures if it wanted to encourage the construction sector. Measures used by other countries and combating this recession, not going with this slightly unusual bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50001	Thank you very much. We have four applications for replication. First of all, dear colleague Daniel Srb, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50002	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. A colleague, Holly, mentioned recently in her presentation the case that "Croatian electricity" did not pay an amount of nearly a quarter of a billion kuna of dedicated funds to encourage the use of renewable energy sources, so unlike prices between production and market prices. It's actually a very difficult thing for me to say to a delict, so one intention that obviously had a certain and political coverage because it couldn't have happened if there was no concrete agreement on it. But this is an extremely bad message to all those who want to invest in renewable energy sources in Croatia, and it is actually an amazing indicator on the one hand I would say even the process of systematic braking the use of renewable energy sources in Croatia. But it's not the only case. Unfortunately, high, high unemployment lies also in the relations stemming from our political system where space plans at county levels and where investor interests exist, such as the case of Sibenik-Knin County where foreign investors have interests in renewable energy sources. In particular, I'm talking about a solar power plant in the mined area, on a junk that would bring not a small number of jobs, and precisely because of the different political options at municipal and county level, you can't see that. So because of our political system and the use of such relationships, it happens that our people are unemployed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50003	Thank you very much. There's no need, okay. Come on in, buddy. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50004	Well, my colleague Holly said that this government aid is to protect the construction sector, so I simply need to stress through this replica that this government's assistance is welcome, but it is welcome that part of the construction sector, since in this Bill, the proposer is doing discrimination against the construction sector, because it gives the possibility that under these conditions apartments sell exclusively licensed builders, as far as their participation by these 150 thousand figures that I keep talking about because of the impressions, but essentially nobody said and the question arises as to what with those builders who built apartments, in the name of the investor, under the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, is defined as the person in whose name the building is, therefore, and there are the builders vulnerable, however, they are not. In this system they do not exist but exist in a variant where a builder with a license from these investors will buy either on their behalf or for their account sell apartments, it exists. What's the name of that store? It's well known to everyone. Is the intention of limitations in this part of it questionable. Secondly, those who are in bankruptcy, so it's the task of a bankruptcy manager to sell property to the believers and the believers are just construction workers, and these people are allowed by this legal proposal. Therefore, one legislative proposal that I do not want to believe is going towards a particular group, but by reading it, and the fact is that a colleague, Ingrid, has already said that it is quite sleekly made, and what the whole series of amendments to the Committee on Legislatives are also talking about is clearly directed in this direction by discriminating on the one hand, and on the other hand to suit very specific ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50005	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50006	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister. Well, fellow Holly, you mentioned that this law has the discrimination of this law. I think that especially in Article 8 is present. What you yourself mentioned is the question of granting loans, so only for the new apartment in the building for which the Act on Use was issued, by way of effect of the Law if this apartment is purchased directly from the performer. But the important questions are here what if the investor and the performer are not the same person, which is with the co-ops, which is with the old apartments that you said yourself or the houses that would get rid of the customers of certain housing issues. I think it turns out that this law is only for environments where there are lots of unsold new constructions, small towns of the village, which is with those owners who built these apartments and how this will encourage the purchase of that first property. What is also important and what shows one discrimination towards the performers is the question of granting loans. The loan is said to be approved by 31. 12. In 2011, there are performers who are in the process of obtaining a valid permit, or they may receive that useful authorisation for a month, two after the entry into force of this Act, but then their apartments will not enter that incentive section. It is essential that the use of the licence exists at the time of the conclusion of the sale contract and that the equalisation of all and customers and also the performer will be greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50007	Thank you very much. You don't need to answer, okay. And the fourth replica, counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Holly, you've made an excellent detection and determination of the matter. In the Republic of Croatia, therefore, there is no national housing strategy at all, nobody here knows how many apartments Croatia needs and how much more care it takes for those who are looking for a solution to their housing issue. How much is built and how much more is needed. So it goes into something that actually doesn't show a solution, and by when it's going to be necessary to build new and new apartments, and we know that there are non-sales on the market as long as you want. So this is actually an attempt by this law to help construction. Although what was very flexible in its business could have been directed to another area, you listed an area of energy development with renewable energy sources. And it is also true that, at a higher level, this energy strategy towards renewable energy sources, as Serbian counterparts have said, is being held back from local, regional and state administration and I say state-level bodies. By this law, you have also noticed well that there is certain discrimination. Namely, you know I can answer whoever you want, and whoever wants the price of a private residential house to be reduced to 100 squares to 60 thousand euros, each builder will accept you, a small or large contractor, to build you a house for 60 thousand euros and this 100 squares house, this law does not speak of words or help them. So, you're quite right, but just to point out these facts, these clear facts where I also quote the price of exactly these private housing facilities and these young people who would decide in the middle of the country or some smaller ones to build their own housing have absolutely nothing from this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50009	Thank you. There's no need to answer thank you nicely. The following has been registered for discussion by a distinguished colleague, Jerko Roshin. Here you go, pal Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50010	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I expected that my debate would take place long before. I got tired of waiting for her, but in the meantime, thanks to the discussions of others, I changed my debate significantly. Unfortunately, those who inspired me for a different tone of debate have no one left in the assembly, so they don't think I'm talking behind their backs, I speak publicly. Is this law solving roof problems for those who need a roof over their head and employment problems, at least as far as the area of construction is concerned? Of course not. But this law still solves a part of this problem, allowing some of the inhabitants who need to solve the roof over their heads to come to it in a easier way and to those who deal with construction to keep on living what our citizens are also doing. But also a large number of those who participate in the construction process, who are not only builders, but those who produce various types of construction material. The topic is politically very difficult today in the debate, too little of the profession is embedded in what is being seen as real problems, which is certainly being solved. But something that is constantly placed on the table is one of our legacy of thinking, and it is always discussed in the frameworks of possible abuses, not in the framework of those good intentions, because we have inherited such an experience of possible abuses, and at that point anything to decide first on how adoption will be used or distorted, and not how it will be applied in one real way. We are in one absurd situation in some way, because we are also talking about how there are people who have not solved their housing problem, and on the other hand we are saying that there are apartments that have been sold that nobody lives in and we have apartments that have been built and haven't been sold. So the problem of apartments is layered, and that's the way to look at it. But at least this law is trying to look at a part of it. And this is the part of the spectrum of residential construction on the market that has limited prices, limited to a thousand 600 euros per metre square, and a thousand as the lower border, not over a thousand 600 etc. I miss Marin Jurevic to keep you quiet so I can talk. And that segment is certainly trying to solve in a way that for those people who conditionally say lower levels of price can achieve it in another way, one easier way. Two topics are mentioned as interesting as the parameters of our event. Austria is mentioned several times today and suggestions for a solution to housing problems in Austria. Austria has at least because Vienna is concerned with a large number of apartments and in Vienna it is not difficult to reach an apartment and not even to buy an apartment, because Vienna was built as the capital of one empire that was supposed to have fifty million inhabitants, not eight of them today. In Vienna, too, much is otherwise assumed that up to today’s life has adapted. The second example is from our practice and our immediate present, it's a question of Longfields. The longfield is developing in Split that someone once spoke to someone, so build a house in Dugopolje, go live in Dugopolje, everyone would say if you were crazy if I was moving out of Split and going to Dugopolje. Today, however, the number of housing squares is growing more and more in Dugopolje. For a lot of money, people solve less problems both with employment and with housing. So the theme of Split is different, because there is no way to say competition but a different way of solving the problem. Who's profiting from this law? Who is the one to whom the law goes on hand, but scrutinised and with what the minister has said and it seems extremely valuable to me, that the Croatian state has invested around 25 billion kuna so far, in fact to make up for something that once was, that the ref as we would have told me, to fix, to rebuild. And now imagine what conditions in solving housing problems today in Croatia would be if we had those 25 billion kunas at our disposal. This information just skips over and doesn't look at the problem the way it should. In the same way, it is simply disregarded that 20-year start-up, i.e. grace periods, for the credits to be received. And what I said in the replica at some prices may be only 6% of the discount is given to the purchaser, but at other prices 30% of what is being stimulated on the market, which is a cheaper price because there will be greater benefits for those who buy, and so will those who keep their construction price lower and easier to sell, which is certainly one of the measures that lowers the price of apartments on the market. That 20 years starts with the interest conditions that are given nowhere can such favourable loans be obtained and of course it does not solve the total amount of housing problems, it solves at least those who will be able to do so through that framework. A fellow Kunst mentioned another interesting topic, but it is not part of this law, but it is certainly part of the occasion to talk about it and different ways of solving housing. POS was one of those categories. I myself designed a building for which at that time it was of no interest to be built at the time of last coalition government and entered into jobs that later this government, or the government in the last term, had to solve and successfully solve. But it's also an interesting topic of this one residential lysing that was spoken of as thematics where a man would enter an apartment and licking it wouldn't tie him to that place of residence. In fact, if we're going to talk about the property of the apartments, then Croatia is an extremely rich country, much richer about Switzerland. For example, in Switzerland only about 30% of the dwellings are owned by the residents themselves, and in Croatia, about 80% is owned by residents, and it would turn out to be Croats if we were to speak significantly richer through that segment than the Swiss. Of course we know we're not, and these are different views of housing conditions with the possibility of renting and, of course, one flexibility in the movement of the earth, the independence of the living space that set you up, which anchored you in one place rather than allowing you to move your business on the other side. For example, this has already happened in Dugopolje that people have gone to Dugopolje for work, so when they were working in Dugopolje, they are now beginning to look for solutions to their housing problems and in Dugopolje itself. As one of the extremely positive examples in the Croatian economy and the use of space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50011	Thanks a lot, buddy. We have four, five reported replicas. First, he's a colleague of Koračević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50012	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Roshin, I fully agree with you in the introduction when you said that this law only solves part of our citizens in the roofing process because I believe you will agree with me and the polls are saying so. One of the key problems or reasons why citizens don't go shopping especially those who are lucky so they're employed, why they don't go into buying an apartment is to have no security or no support at the moment when God doesn't give it away and anything happens today happens to stay a job so they can't repay the loan. And there's the role of the state above all to give these people support and the minister has in one of her discussions and announced it as one of the problems. The second problem I see in this whole story is that the rest of the cost of the apartment is owned by business banks. Business banks fully free and independently finance the price of capital. No one uses instruments to make this system cheap and instruments exist, for example in POS. And exactly the price of capital defines the ultimate value of the apartment and the normal monthly war. And I think these are two key moments that are missing in this law, which are not in this law. I hope that with support and when it comes to debate and our proposal POS plus which has these two elements that we will get support because ultimately it gives the lowest price possible and it is known that POS is ultimately the lowest possible price of the apartment. And in the end, one correction and one clarification. It's not the price of capital on the government loan at a standstill, at a time of rest of 2%. She's over 2%, 2.12, 2.15. It is not the price of capital to pay 5%, it is 5.5% because the agency lends a loan and the agency accounts for VAT, and no one talks to the VAT and that VAT is an integral part of the capital price as well. So, if it's out of misunderstanding, if it's because of ignorance, I don't know why, but I think that story missed. She's well settled in the POS Act because it says exactly in there that you don't pay for it. No, it doesn't say here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50013	Thanks, buddy. A colleague of Rosha's reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50014	... The next way. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] You said this law solves part of the problem and you agreed with me. But let's take a guess when those two other elements, if those two other elements were fulfilled in the way you think both bank and loan options would be less valuable or more valuable. You'd be more valuable. So, all of this together as far as this law applies, it can't be within this law, it can be part of a general social climate. So let's agree that this law as proposed is good and let's work on other elements to ensure that they are not the subject of this debate. And I could also tell you about POS, based on my own experience, what that means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50015	Thank you. A colleague of Markovinović's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50016	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Roshin, quite correctly, states that there's actually a huge difference in the percentages of ownership in us and in European countries, not to speak in America. So I've read in my time as many as 82% of the population owns some real estate. So, the desire for real estate normally leaves many perhaps unhappy because here I can't buy something at this point. What's going on with the building apartments in our house? Here, a large number of built apartments and unsold apartments may be saving the wood industry at this point. Many investors buy furniture, equip apartments and rent apartments, and this works relatively well. So it's not all so black, but it won't start building new apartments until it sells a good deal of built apartments. And this measure, I think it's good, it'll encourage many, but I'm asking a question of how long the opposition will scare our people into going shopping at all. A lot of people have a very safe job. It's clear to me that it's time for saturation. I know, I've known people around me who've never done housing, but each one has built a building of two, three with the sale of apartments. Obviously, it's a business that's been going pretty well, there's been a saturation, and at this point, the announcement of the crisis has made little and there's been a stalemate as seen in the huge increase in savings, but I think it's going to be resolved. This is a good incentive that will certainly help many to decide to go shopping. I don't think it's necessary to scare people to that extent, to discourage people. Let us remember that what is happening to us in a small amount, so taking people into real estate that has triggered the entire crisis in America because the mortgage loans that the banks have raised have come into possession of a huge number of mortgage apartments, the houses continue to cause a clear problem. It won't be here, so far it's a very small number and many have taken real estate. I'm talking real estate because here in these numbers the opposition points out are mixed properties and apartments. Many properties were taken just to keep the loan from being paid off, that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50017	Thank you. The answer to my colleague Roshin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50018	A colleague, Markovinović. I'm not an economist by calling, I'm a part of the profession because I can't pass that, and especially I'm not Goran Maric, I don't know if he's here, that he would know so well about banking business and what a colleague from the HNS just mentioned. The fact is that much speculative was installed in construction, or in this kind of entrepreneurship in real estate issues, and that what started in America as a single wave that led to a global recession was just in the giving of speculative loans. Because someone who would come to America and ask a hundred thousand dollars to build an apartment and then the bank would tell him you're 100, take 200, and then the 200 or 300 that gave credit still went to the same mortgage, the same real estate that was objectively worth only 100. And in those moments these crises have created these problems just as the money that was brought into that property has been devalued. But in this case, this law speaks of those who physically built it. He's not talking about an entrepreneurial mechanism that's upgraded to that, he's talking about compensation for the builders. And when he talks about the builders, he talks about the parkers, about the colorists, about the marbles, about the carpenters, about all those who have been built into it and who have come into a position that they cannot be charged, that they can only be charged in such a way that they can get their money constructed in that one real estate and that they themselves take over the solution of their problem in a way that they try through these instruments that are made available to them by this law to solve a part of the problem. So it's not about the one who bought the land, who put his interests in that country and asked to pay as little as possible to keep it as much as possible, but to the one who physically did it on his shoulders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50019	Thank you very much. Third replica, dear colleague Zeljko Turk. Here you go, colleague Zeljko.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50020	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Roshin, in one very good way you have spoken one step above, which is when we talk about the construction segment and one whole new approach, new zones. Perhaps only a sentence, two, would say about one subject directly related to the building itself, our basic topics with the finding and these loans, with the finding of total investment funds this year of nearly a billion kuna in construction topics. A direct topic about the commitment of these topics to renewable energy, but a topic that is related to efficient energy management, and this also refers to the construction itself, given that you are both an architect and a respected expert in this field. The fact is that in different ways, the Croatian State primarily through the Energy Efficiency Fund encourages a lot of projects that are arranged for quality energy management, and here it is, in part, connected to both the building and everything that the building as such refers to. So I was really interested in your commentary since you're also a person who's directly in that profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50021	Thank you very much. My colleague Roshin's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50022	I am very grateful for this replica and encourages one topic that I thought would be of no interest in the assembly to discuss, which is a question of energy efficiency in living space. This topic is extremely important. It may investmentally increase investment per square metre, but in exploiting it makes it very, very economical and cheaper and improves the country's energy situation. This is a topic that I have particularly dealt with before and participated in discussions on the energy development of the Republic of Croatia on exactly how much energy savings can reduce the need for new amounts of energy. And I think that, now I'm using this opportunity for the minister to pass on one proposal, one recommendation, to think about how much more energy-efficient houses, actually by saving, could get the benefit of a certain or how much incentives for more energy-friendly solutions could contribute to all of this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50023	Thank you, colleague Roshin. Now follows the replica of a respected colleague, Kotromanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Roshin, you spoke of other capacities that should be developed, and they are closely related to construction and housing. And you also said that about 25 billion kuna is all together if I understood correctly invested in various types of construction throughout Croatia. That's a lot of money. I ask myself and ask myself a question, you are an architect and you know it even better than I do why in these great projects that Croatia, the Republic of Croatia had such arenas, hospitals, POS apartments and schools are not involved in Croatian product. We destroyed the ceramic industry, the wood industry, and now I have some sort of example of how many ceramic tiles or wood industry have been installed into the arenas. Now here in Virovitica is a building hospital, so she got some kind of page in the contest, some kind of tiles that were imported from I have no idea where from Italy, Spain. They got priority ahead of ours, and 550 strike people are out of work today. I believe that Croatia must protect its own interests, that we must go inside to where the government is calling for tenders and where the government is funding certain projects that we must install our product, not importing a strong wood industry, ceramic tiles worth 100 million euros, dollars a year and thus disrupting the value of our man, our people. They are in this House and in all governments are mouths full of Croatia. People like Croatia, although I have not noticed that we act in this way. A '91. many men have not shown their courage either. I'd like to do something concrete right now, to help our people, that means that it's also a proposal for a minister to be involved in those things that we simply produce. And that's unfortunately one big problem here with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50025	Thank you very much. Answer me, colleague Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50026	My colleague Kotromanović, you have also touched a very interesting topic for discussion and the same topic that is very close to me. The illustration works, and it doesn't work to thank you, I'm telling you it's '77. The year built the Hotel "Cactus" in Supetar, Brac, '78. I won the Nazor Prize for that hotel for architecture. But what does it matter? There was a board that said by the hotel that it was a hotel, at the time it was a rarity, built exclusively of domestic products. So, only what was on the then Yugoslav market was installed. There was nothing from either Italy or Austria or Germany. From tile to sanitary, to rail, to anything. So my personal intensity exists too. However, the problem needs to be seen in another context. If you want to perform on a common market where you want to affirm your own products and if in the affirmation of your products you would be opposed by someone with their products then you would say that he has closed his market that you cannot penetrate it. This may be a recommendation and we have from the Chamber of Commerce "let's buy Croatian", etc., it is only a question of how much we can achieve in some international relations and how. If all the French only flew to France, all the Greeks in Greece, all the Italians in Italy, the question is who would come to Croatia you know. It's the only thing that can be, I understand absolutely your intensity, and I support only the legal regulation of that, and I find it difficult to think it can be realized. But as our kind intention, yes. But I'm telling you, I personally realized something like that and I was extremely proud that I was able to do what gave me the limitations of being creative to understand, but it was worth it more than that lamp being from Mebla than someone else. Thank you. ... Well, you can always do more. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You and me and all of us together.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50027	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50028	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister. Well, here's what you did, Jerko. You kind of motivated me because I recognized a dimension that you talked about next to those actually neural dots that we've experienced in the construction industry so far. You have highlighted a very important dimension, which is that young people can come a much easier way to solve a very important and vital life problem for themselves and for members of their families. I'm going to tell you very honestly that my son will be overjoyed to be able to solve that, I'm going to say, vital problem again. I have to say, too, that I'm surprised that we're forgetting it very slowly, and the time that we lived in when we could have had a bunch of money, which is what we say in Dalmatia, so we didn't. We simply lived in such a system and we couldn't buy apartments, and 14 or 15 thousand euros that the state will make easier for young people with a 20-year start, believe it's not a little easy. And I still have to say that our minister has also told us in her opening statement, when we say that we have no strategy, we have strategies. If 1/3 of our citizens do not have an apartment or a house in their possession, then we know very well how much our citizens expect in some future period to resolve their issue. But also, Madam Minister, when you were speaking, I believe that you also meant that local self-government units were obliged to provide infrastructure and municipal land for our defenders. I will tell you only illustrations for the purpose that in the city of Sibenik, the city of Sibenik must infrastructure and municipally equip land for some 200 defenders who, in accordance with the Law on the status of Croatian defenders, exercise the right to housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50029	Thank you very much. Answer me, colleague Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50030	You know what it is, things are looked at differently and solved differently, depending on the times they are. In some richer, thicker times, many things were possible, but in some, it was not possible. The debate on the law that should allow 2 000 and a few apartments to be implemented as a one-time measure is the opportunity that has taken place now, which I should have said in the debate and the fire measures to be addressed today. When that time is up, we will see how things will happen and how much such action will be needed. But the fact is, I've also said that, so at this point he would point out, that we're solving some of the main roofs over our heads, literally a roof over our heads, and we're trying to find a quality apartment but for a small price, so that's not going to be burdened by something else, while on the other hand you have apartments in some environments that aren't hard to buy for 2.5 thousand euros and 3,000 euros in some environments because there are people who have. So there are always those who don't and there are those who do. At this point, it's about trying to solve the problems of those who don't, not allow those who have to get more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50031	Thank you very much. Replication report's gone. I'm declaring a break by 3:00. We're continuing an individual debate. First up, fellow Sobol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50032	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we continue to work, and a new agenda item, an individual debate. It's Mrs. Gordana Sobol's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50033	Thank you, Mr. President. So basically all morning, we've been discussing this law on encouraging the sale of apartments and given all the issues that are open during this morning's debate, we definitely think we're right that this law is quite inconclusive and has caused a lot of controversy in the public. Yesterday on the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, I said that this Law has come the way since the first time Prime Minister Kosor announced this possibility that the state participates on average with 200 euros in the purchase of a new apartment, and the whole time the measure was primarily potential as a social measure in relation to those categories of population in Croatia that cannot in any way have the means to buy an apartment. However, as time went by and finally when we received this Bill proposal, the proposed Law says, first of all, the Proposer wants to enable builders or contractors to start new construction cycles, etc. This is what the bill states about 2135 apartments. I have now read a short article, which was published yesterday, based on data provided by the State Statistics Institute, which says that during last year construction companies with 20 employees ended up with 8195 apartments. Which is 4.1% more than in 2008, and at the end of last year there were 6170 apartments, which is still 52% less than a year earlier. What I am missing from the proposal or in the light of the proposal of this Law absolutely is one data, or more data. First, how many of these newly built apartments are in Croatia. Secondly, these apartments are located somewhere, not only in the town of Zagreb but elsewhere in Croatia. If this law refers to only 2135 apartments, I ask the question, where are these apartments located, where is this new building located? IS this new construction in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek, so large cities or is it located elsewhere? Furthermore, I asked the question yesterday, but no one has been able to convince me through the debate today where in Croatia, of this new construction, where a young family that actually has nothing, which should have nothing, because that is the way it stands in terms of this Law, can find an apartment for 1000 euros and it is an apartment without VAT, and in order to possibly achieve the largest loan of 300 euros per square. When you look at article 11, which says who can actually apply, who can answer, give the documentation to buy the apartment, according to the state's say-good conditions, then I'll say again what I just said, then those who don't otherwise have anything. They must give confirmation that they have no apartment, or that they own only one apartment that sells for the purchase of a larger apartment, and if married, they must give a statement that the spouse has nothing to own, or that there is no other apartment owned. Then when we look at it like this, I would say that this bill reminds me of another bill that we unfortunately adopted in this House, which is when, remember, not all of us, but when the rulings voted the Law that reduced the unemployment benefits, because it was said from what was meant for the unemployed we will target the companies that would then use it to preserve jobs. So I said that only in Croatia it turns out that by reducing the unemployment benefits they are worried and that perhaps in some companies other places will be preserved, and I hope that when the analysis comes, they will already be in the public interest in the disastrous effects of this measure. We have more and more unemployed today, we have more and more of those who might actually need to take advantage of this measure but I'm asking you how and how. Do those who are now cut off the 2% crisis tax from July 1st, forgive when you go to the bank and when you're looking for a housing loan if nothing else, then the bank asks you to have a certain salary level, and that war can't cross you if I'm not wrong about a third of the salary amount, and what we're talking about here today? I don't know who's helping, I don't know which companies that are 2135, I don't know how many workers it is, it's certainly not 150 thousand construction workers. Because these companies and other companies were building and x other companies were building thousands of other apartments last year and apparently still being built. What is most important to me and most missing in Croatia. And I don't know if this government or some future government will finally go that way, and that's one single national housing policy. In one part of our country's development, we had the need to invest some other housing units that were to be destroyed, that were to be restored, where people were to return, I hope that someone made an analysis of all of these arranged and built houses and housing units and whatever else, as many of them are staring at empty today. Yesterday I spoke to a colleague from Sibenik, and he also told me about some examples. So, one national housing strategy. As far as I'm aware, the unions warned yesterday on the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership something like this was directed a few years ago towards the government towards GSV and now it's stuck somewhere in someone's drawers. I'm interested in whether in this sense this government has any intention of doing anything at all, because no one can convince me that this offer of these 2,000 315 apartments will make at least a thousand families purchase this way. And I looked at the calculations on different examples, how much is it really to say a relief hard at the end. So they calculated on one example, or they could do a number of different ways with different beginnings, so years of beginnings. He says if you take a 50-metre-square apartment at a price of 400 euros per square metre in the end if you take the opportunity for the state to help you, eventually when you add up the interest of one, the other, the third one will cost you 97 thousand euros. And without state aid, that apartment will ultimately cost you after you pay off all the loans and interest amounts to 97 thousand 655 euros. And that's basically when you go looking at it like that, then I'm saying you can actually see what a potential savings or convenience is. But in the end, I want to repeat once again, and I expect an answer from someone to tell me and show us here in Parliament, two thousand 315 apartments where are these apartments? What are those apartments? Where are they located? In what parts of Croatia? It is only in the area of large cities or it may be elsewhere in some other cities, because if we were to look at it that way, then we should probably, as I said, open a story of housing in Croatia and the way it is run. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50034	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50035	Comrade Sobol, you're right when you're actually in favour of national housing policy. I'm sure that's when we'd get answers about where the money went from buying social housing, so from the time it was deployed, 40%, 40%, 20%, and I'm saying this all together because it's perfectly clear who this relief is for. Only for those who aren't at high prices sell housing squares they've already built. And secondly, it's probably you and I are actually exposed to the questions of the Association of Protected Renters. This morning they actually learned information about that 90 apartments allegedly bought by the government, and I think that this problem is very much in the air, and I think that first of all, the protected tenants should put under the law and solve the case, and not how it's actually done that the association that has them and that protects the rights of protected tenants only today learns about the information that 90 apartments have been bought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50036	Thank you. Answer? No, I don't. And another replica, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50037	My colleagues are wondering where your new apartments are. The teaching and what has just been replicated by a colleague, Ranko, that the association of these protected tenants, who are protected by the tenants, is essentially the first to know. He says we'd like to know how the association doesn't know where those 90 apartments are. Well, just before you said it was built that funds were spent on people like that. And these people have been waiting for the answer for a long time. In fact, it's a great honor for you in 2006 to solve the problem of superior apartments. And then I remember well the Legislative Committee you promised that the following year, so it should have been settled in 2007 that you had all the information to solve this burning problem of these people. So, on the one hand and the owner it's a complex problem, but they don't have much, because that problem is over time multiplied. So to solve the problem of those people who are older, they are thrown out every day by angry owners who seek ownership, intimidate people, these people do not receive adequate police protection. Because, my God, it's about old and powerless, so why should the police give them protection? She has more important things to do here and there. So here is the answer to this question not only globally, as you've asked exactly, but especially these 90 famous phantom apartments for which the association has no idea where they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50038	Thank you very much. Minister Marina Matulović Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50039	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't say anywhere it was about 90 apartments, I said we bought a thousand 29 apartments for former tenants. And these are the former tenants who left Croatia. Now they're coming back to Croatia. I never mentioned 90 apartments at all. No, no, so find me a phonogram and we'll see. I know exactly what I'm saying. But all they need to know is those who listen to what they've heard. As far as the apartments are concerned, where the apartments are. Mrs. Sobol, 2,000 315 apartments. Sesvete, Zagreb, Pitomača, Pula, Split, Orasac, Solin, Split, Labin, Prologac, Garjesnica, Virje, Crikvenica, Rijeka, Zadar, Osijek, Split Matulji, Nasice, Rovinj, Rijeka, Đurđevac, Rijeka, Slavonski Brod, Rijeka, Zagreb, Varazdin, Zagreb, Vukovar, Zagreb, Osijek and Vinkovci. We have company names, too, and there's no problem in giving it to you because that's the thing that's the way it is. As far as protected tenants are concerned. No one would be happier than us to get rid of protected tenants. We've held a bunch of meetings with them so far. However, these are the two sides that stand each at its starting point. One wants the apartments returned to them, and twice in Strasbourg in Europe, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia ruled that property is unquestionable and that because these protected tenants are protected by tenants in apartments, it is not a seduction of the right. So we tried to make arrangements with them but they don't want to move to other apartments, so they're being bought by some other apartments they don't want to. We have, now we've only got to ask for a conversation from Dubrovnik and Split one small group of people who would accept and buy them other apartments but in Zagreb by no means, nobody wants to talk about it at all, they want to buy those apartments and they simply can't. If anyone has a smart proposal and solves those two things we will accept because it is a terrible problem for all of us, there are 3,000 250 and 3,000 250 protected tenants to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50040	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50041	I will indeed apologize if it is incorrect to mention the apartments of protected tenants to the Minister, but we will normally determine the issue of the accuracy of this allegation. I would just point out that no matter how small the groups from Split or Dubrovnik are, I ask you to listen to them because it is extremely important that we go in this direction to solve, they are also citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50042	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now we've heard from Madam Minister and this number from the bill of two thousand 315 apartments where they've been located and the fact is that the stagnation of sales. However, it is also a fact that we have heard today that we have over 600 performances and of course there are many apartments and houses that are in the drum precisely because our citizens cannot repay loans. In fact, interest on housing loans has already crossed 7% in early 2009. Almost all the countries in the euro region have begun to take care of the payment of their fellow citizens' housing loans. Interests were tied to the reference interest rates at the time of 2.5, and then the interest on housing loans could not be more than 5%. Let's take a look at what's going on with us. Also, the minister says Croatia is taking care of the housing, lists everything. But there is great dissatisfaction amongst citizens. It is realistic that the price of capital has increased and that citizens cannot decide on any loans. And that's exactly why the construction business is going down. But as he flourished, it was their capital and no one was protecting our citizens at the time, no one allowed them to come to a more favourable loan and now it's our concern. Let us not forget that it was the most profitable activity. It is said that this law promotes supply and demand or traffic of real estate but will not solve all of us know problems in all parts or... It's fair. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a law on paper that's inconclusive all over the territory. And I repeat, the law pleases those who created excess living space because it was built greedyly without a plan, only profit was nothing more. They will also profit from banks that will now get a chance to profit on any financially unsettled families by drawing them out, in fact, their last kuna. He's been writing a delay for almost 20 years. A young family who, in their working 30s, are lucky to get a job becomes creditworthy to get a 20-year-old loan. However, they are only somewhere in this part of what the state has given the last years of work before retirement begin to repay the loan that essentially doubles interest in the meantime. Now, we've seen a few examples today, colleagues are instructions which part means which part of the country is giving, which is the share in the loan, so here I'm going to say an example of a thousand 300 euros who's lucky enough to buy that apartment. That's about 11% of the state's share. And I repeat today, the minister says that this gives opportunity to those who have no purchasing power. I repeat who today in the country of young people has purchasing power. The question remains how do young people get to an apartment because with a job that is actually a prerequisite for the achievement of housing policy or for the resolution of the housing issue, it is a real policy of art. However, this law does not go that way either. So I actually conclude he goes in favour of capital, a partial solution recklessly. It is even said that buying at least a thousand apartments or thousands of people will solve the housing issue in this way. A thousand apartments will get rid of it. Well, in Zagreb, we have more than a thousand unsold apartments. I'll mention more Dubrovnik. In Dubrovnik it is certainly impossible to implement this precisely because only land is 700 to 800 euros, so much higher than the average of Croatia, for example 200, Zadar 200, Zagreb 300, etc. The price of construction in Dubrovnik is 20 to 30% higher, for example, for objective or subjective reasons. Therefore, I can finally say that even if this law would lead to the promotion of cheaper prices, I would support it. However, I doubt that and for this reason I will not support him as well as my colleagues, and I can say that it is obvious that those who have done this law cannot understand those who do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50044	Thank you. Correction Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50045	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I'm correcting your claim that this law is only a law on paper and you probably thought a dead letter was on paper. All laws are written on paper. I'm sure and I believe that's not the case. So I'm correcting that quote. It will live when it is brought, it will be alive for at least three reasons, and these three reasons are primarily based on such a loan the possibility that people and especially young people buy apartments without having to participate in money, under b) that it increases spending and the total flow of money on our market. And when we talk about the third one, that's exactly how the flow of money in the construction industry is potentiated, and that's exactly what the apartments build along with the performers themselves. That's at least three reasons I'm sure this law isn't or will not be a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50046	Thank you. Let's move on. Madam representative Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50047	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I don't mean to spread this topic to national housing policy because actually this bill doesn't tend to talk about it. It is simply an anti-recession government measure, an intervention measure and therefore has a limited duration, so by the end of 2011, and is therefore strictly limited to its purpose, so its purpose is to encourage the sale of several thousand unsold apartments as many as are currently on the Croatian market. We're talking about 2135 apartments here, even though they're estimated to be far more, so there's some of them talking about 10 grand. So, with this legal solution, the government primarily wants to help builders who are literally on their knees, and they are an important part of the Croatian economy because this activity employs, so the total construction of not only the housing of over 150 thousand workers, with 15 thousand of them, so every tenth due to the economic crisis is out of work, and this figure should certainly add 5 thousand more lost jobs in co-operative crafts. But the truth is that this law will really help only one part of construction, why only one part. I have already mentioned, because the apartment deals with only 17% of the total number of builders and because loans will be granted exclusively for the purchase of apartments from licensed contractors and those who have an orderly business, so those who have settled all obligations neatly and who are not bankrupt. And that means that the choice narrows down to a pretty tight circle of builders who stay in the game to sell apartments according to this model as proposed by the law. Of course, by conceiving this law, the government also thought of itself because in this large number of unsold apartments, a significant potential revenue from the state budget was frozen. For example, it is expected that by selling a thousand apartments only in 2010 at the average price of a 1300-euro square apartment, which gives a total value of around 660 million kuna, the state register would earn about 113 million kuna of VAT. Given that the state must provide for the implementation of this law in 2010 i.e. For the payment of the incentives also 100 million kuna, it is obvious that in 2010 the paid VAT would in fact fully cover the amount of the incentives paid, which means that the realisation of this law in 2010 would be neutral for the state, i.e. even the state would earn something. This legislative proposal should also be a concrete anti-recession measure for the benefit of Croatian citizens and those of medium purchasing powers, primarily younger ones, which should be easier to address one of the essential existential issues, so this is a roof over the head. In Croatia, there is no problem with selling expensive apartments, so those whose square is more expensive than 2000 euros. The problem is the cheaper apartments for which customers are no longer in Croatia. And that's why this law only subsidises apartments whose price does not exceed 1600 euros per square, of course without VAT, or if VAT is included, then it's less than 1900 euros. So logic is next. It's an expensive apartment, less support from the state. In this way, he wants to encourage builders to additionally lower the price of apartments, although something else is happening on the ground, and I will say something about it later. This is the basic reason why this law will have a significantly higher echo in smaller cities where the prices of apartments are lower than that, for example, in the town of Zagreb itself. It should be said that this model has one advantage, even in relation to the POS model because there is no payment of the participation which is the case with POS, and it is precisely that amount of cash that was very often an insurmountable barrier in order to buy an apartment. In particular, this is the case in these times of crisis when regular monthly incomes are based on permanent employment are actually very insecure. As it is imagined this law offers a really more favourable model of buying an apartment than existing banking models, but it must be said that convenience is still quite thin because the participation of state incentives in the total price of the apartment ranges from 6 to 30% depending on the price of squares. So, what should be pointed out is that only that part of the price of the apartment will be paid lower interest, so up to 5% while most of the price of the apartment customers will still have to pay off on bank terms and we could say that cat in a bag in this law, so that too little share of the state's incentives. And in the very realization of this model of encouraging the sale of apartments already now, so before the law even saw the light of day, that is, before it even came into effect, some problems arise. In fact, it is now heard that a number of performers have raised the prices of built apartments precisely for that height of the state's incentive and thus has actually pre-announced the effects of the incentives. So there could be no apartments on the market at all at the lowest price that actually provides the highest state incentive. Furthermore, what should also be said is that the Government does not give anything away, only allows the repayment of the loan to be postponed with the amount of the loan granted during the payment period, and that period can be the longest 20 years, the interest is calculated at 2%, while the repayment period which can again be up to 10 years is calculated at 5%. So that cost is not forgiven but is only delayed for a certain time. Of course, that grace period, as well as the payment time, will be longer, the cost of the loan will be greater. What, I'm afraid, could further devolve the value of this law is the price of bank loans to which apartment buyers will finance the difference between the amount of State loan and the full cost of costing the apartment. So, if banks insist on high interest rates, which is very likely given their hunger for profit on the one hand and the radically reduced demand for their own housing loans on the other hand, so if this happens, this law will completely lose its meaning. Finally, it should be said that the truth of this Law is a partial, palitative measure because it offers an exclusive solution to promote the sale of already built apartments, and to encourage the housing system that many here today have been talking about, the government needs to do a lot more, from reducing the total cost of building, first of all, I mean here by reducing land prices through a more radical rather than just a symbolic reduction in interest to buy apartments until creating a serious social housing system but on another occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50048	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50049	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Jelash, I'm glad you said this law offers a more favourable purchase of apartments. I think it is very important to say and underline because young people who are in such a position that they are in the intention and need to buy an apartment certainly every wheel can contribute well to buying, so also from favourable lending lower interest, of course, from that moment on traffic tax, and that moment for first purchase is also very important. It is expected that builders in these circumstances also lower prices, there is, we heard from today's debate that in many environments there are immensely high prices of apartments, it is expected to enter those categories so that they can compete for these apartments and I believe that this can certainly improve this very important area, but hopefully it will preserve those jobs that are immeasurably important and such a preserved workplace is very important and important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50050	Thank you. Mrs. Nadica Jelash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50051	Well, personally, I would prefer it much more, and in fact, the law would, or the purchase of apartments with a state incentive, be much more favourable if this state-owned incentive were to be greater this way, the part for which the purchasers of apartments would have to be in debt with commercial or business banks would still be extremely large and we know with a high banking interest that actually significantly lowers the advantage of buying an apartment with a state incentive.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50052	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50053	Thank you very much. How it was with our unfortunate apartment building. First, there weren't enough apartments, people had money then, they could get a loan in the bank, interest was less, and even young people could buy an apartment, but the apartments weren't there, apartments weren't being built or being built in insufficient numbers. This relationship between supply and demand, the lack of living space on the market raised the price of dwellings. And then investors builders, investors dreamt they saw this good opportunity to earn money and started building housing. The apartments are built and not sold, but now we have to wonder why these apartments aren't sold, people on the one hand have a need for an apartment, and on the other hand they don't buy already built apartments. Why? First because these apartments are probably too expensive and secondly, the country’s uncertainty prevailed, people losing their jobs. 317 thousand unemployed, 70 grand working and not getting paid, I don't know how many of those who work for a certain time, so the bank won't grant them a loan of housing. Because they have no guarantee that this loan will be paid off of their salary. Which is why this uncertainty has now arisen, which is why people don't have money, in fact they can't decide to borrow and buy an apartment. So because the general policy of the state, government policy has led to such a collapse of society, to such general uncertainty, to an increase in the number of unemployed, to the simply inability of people to solve their housing problem. This cannot be solved by one law of that fact. It must be resolved either by changing the government or by changing government policy, it would best be resolved by changing the government. Because it turns out that over a longer period than 6 years, this current government that we now have, it's not able to solve, however, every day is getting worse, every day is getting more unemployed, every day they pay less, every day is more and more of those who work and don't get paid. It is possible to change the situation by changing the general political conditions. On the other hand, why is the first reason why the price of the apartment is too high, and see also more factors affecting it, the price of all contributions, the communal fees to be paid, the building permit to start construction at all, and then the cost of working in Croatia is too high. Why? Because giving to work too high. Well, of course, when a builder builds an apartment, when he has to pay his permits expensively, when he has to pay the worker dearly because he can't get it, he has to pay a contribution to his salary, of course that apartment is expensive. So if we want to lower the price of the apartment, then we would have to change these conditions, that would give more effect, to reduce labour prices, to reduce contributions, that's what a government can influence, because there is also some macroeconomic moves, fiscal nature above all, and to try to boost the economy. Unfortunately, this government, as we can see, is not working. Well, we're sorry it doesn't work, I'd like it to work, I'd like that labour price to be reduced in Croatia, so more people would get a job, so we wouldn't have an increase in unemployment but we'd have a reduction in unemployment rate. That would certainly be more joyful and pleasant to listen to than this. What else affects the height of the apartment price? Well certainly quite understandable, justifiable desire to profit investors, those who built apartments, so of course they are in the interest of making as much money on this built apartment as possible. This is a natural completely understandable desire, and this is why these builders should not be judged. But I don't think we should even appeal to them that they should lower it now because there are people who don't have money. They certainly won't do it. And now one law is proposed, which means it's not going to solve these global problems, it's going to a small segment. Is this social law? It says it will help the citizens. I don't have anything to do with social security. But nothing at all. I don't know why it's so announced, why it's being misrepresented. Tell people we want to help the builders sell the apartments they've already built. That's our interest. This has nothing to do with citizens, because if you want to help citizens, there can be measures, there are measures. Let's just say this law excludes old apartments. So, not new constructions. They're cheaper because they're old, and they're not paid for by VAT, so they're cheaper at the start. So if the government runs a social policy in the purchase of apartments then it could bring a measure to say, here's the government will give, it'll lend money to all young couples in buying the first apartment or in moving to a larger apartment, of course, on all these same conditions that there's no other real estate, that his spouse doesn't have any real estate. Of course it can't be done for speculant reasons, but for the need of life to live quality, to live at all. And then the government would offer this to all citizens, not just those who buy but this newly built apartment. There's still a whole series of social measures. Some of them, we suggested. We suggested a moratorium to pay off loans to those who lost their jobs. Why? Well, because people have nothing to repay these loans from, they're not guilty of losing their jobs. What's it worth for them to go out on a street protest, carry banners against the government? Well, that's all it is. They're certainly not to blame for losing their job. It is the overall policy of a government that leads to such conditions. They expected another citizen, they expected better conditions, and they didn't see it coming. They've been waiting for this. They believed when the government, or party before the election promised them here, you'll live better, there won't be any new taxes, you'll have a higher standard. The poor people believed, believed, voted for the government. What are they waiting for? On the contrary. While they believed, they took out loans, and they had to pay them longer than the mandate of a government. They'll have to pay for ten more, maybe 20 years. And now what? They've lost their jobs, they can't pay back the loans, and that government instead of accepting our proposal, that kind of help that it's ruined, that it's brought to this terrible situation. Because what do they have left? So they'll have the banks. They're mortgage loans, they're gonna take those properties, because these are the same apartments they bought that guarantee these loans. All mortgage loans. When they can't get it back, the banks will activate the mortgages. They're gonna sell these apartments cheaper, so they're gonna charge their loan along with interest and what do they care, and these people are gonna end up on the street. Therefore, it would be a social measure. The social measure would also be one overall or economic measure and also a social measure. It would be one of the government's overall policies to act on interest reduction in commercial banks. All right, all right. It's the same part of the macroeconomy. You should know that, though. What can we do when they don't know. Croatia has one state-owned bank, at least one, so it could place housing loans with lower interest creating competition for other commercial banks and force them to either lose credit lines or they too will have to lower interest. But we see what was going on in that bank. There was a robbery going on. So how come the ones who were actually sent there from the government? Well, the government put them there as managers who robbed them. Well, we can't expect them to act in the interest of the citizens. Therefore, this law will not result in the effects that are declared here and therefore does not make sense for it to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50054	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Davor Huška's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50055	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. A lot has been said, but here are a few words and my contribution to the debate. In the proposal for a law on the promotion of the sale of apartments, of course we, on this side of the assembly, consider the law as something good, defend it and believe it, unlike colleagues and colleagues on the other hand. It is no secret that this is just one of the short-term measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it is directed in my opinion, and so I see other colleagues in three directions. First, according to citizens who buy apartments for the first time, the second is to builders who cannot sell their apartments at the moment, and thirdly according to the state budget, which is also not secret that according to estimates, more than 100 million kuna will come into the state budget of the Republic of Croatia only in the first year of implementation of this programme. Of course this is important for the builders. We have seen the facts in the construction of the Republic of Croatia where about 150,000 workers are employed who are well employed in the housing sector. It is also the fact that they are 10%, meaning 15000 are out of work by the end of 2009. Unfortunately, there is also a continuation of such trends if the situation in the housing market is so. I believe it won't be after the adoption of this law on encouraging the sale of apartments. So it's a direct help to the builders. Again, it does not mean to investors, not to anyone but to builders who can sell under conditions prescribed by this law to apartments owned by them. Furthermore, it is an incentive and opportunity for those who buy apartments for the first time. It's mostly young people, young families in the Republic of Croatia who get conditions that aren't on the market today, credit services that weren't as much as I remember in the past years. And this is an opportunity for young people to come to their first apartment, to solve their housing problems, and to take one planned dynamic with no overloading interest and loans and pay off. I don't know if anyone among us ever bought anything when he was younger, of course without credit, and I don't know why he's so worried about credit under such favourable conditions. And thirdly, of course, this programme is targeted, i.e. the laws according to the state budget, because I am expected to sell the apartments in question... The VAT is generated in the case of a thousand dwellings this year, of a thousand euros per metre square, some average price of about 103 million and up to 113 million kuna in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the funds needed to implement this model in the budget are 100 million kuna. I think it is normal and positive that the budget, i.e. the proposings, is to make sure that it does not empty the budget on one side and that nothing happens on the revenue side and that this is exactly the way of thinking is calculated well. I'm going to say one more thing about a certain concern in a business bank that can happen. In 1998 I was a beneficiary of the popular... credit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to get to that loan for about a year, I collected the necessary documentation. When I got the credit conditions, then at the amount of 68 thousand German marks at the time, I had to have 8 guarantees of a creditor, a solidator. 9 people were to be found at that time, caught being bailed out, and there were better times, that is, a solid debtor where my wife was a member of the family, that I might even be able to use that loan. There should also take care of one more thing when you say it, so this is to worry that we don't get to the end of those young people who go into this arrangement and buy an apartment, because if it's what it's been like so far, it can take up to a year until they get to buy an apartment. And secondly, he's worried about the insurance the bank is looking for through bail bonds, credit courts and mortgages, i.e. real estate fiduciation. I hope the banks will accept exactly the property purchased through this credit programme, as sufficient for the guarantee to repay the loan either through the mortgage, or through the fiduciary, that they will not ask for additional insurance either in real estate, whether in additional guarantees, debtors, judges, which was the simplest way to realise this loan. This should also be taken into account by those famous property insurance policies that must be transferred to a bank where credit is raised, as it also requires certain additional costs and each year that property must be provided through a specific insurance company, which is mainly prescribed by a business bank where credit is raised. These are not small amounts of insurance, and the policies must, of course, be inculcated in favour of the credited business bank. In the end, I want to say something about the POS program. This bill, namely this Law on the Promotion of Sales of Apartments POS, remains in force, nothing is happening, but I would like to highlight one situation that is happening with the POS programme in areas of special state concern. The APN teams were in the field, I come from such an area of course from Pakrac and those parts, and I know what the situation is. APN teams were in the field, having an extraordinary presentation of the POS programme. Unfortunately, when building POS apartments, we come to prices per square metre of apartments that are far higher at this moment than on the real estate market, the housing market in the areas of special state care, where the price of a square meter of a residential apartment with an established heating system is often ranging from 400,500 to a maximum of 600, 650 euros. As a result, the POS programme may not have been developed to such extent in the area of cities and municipalities, in the area of special state concern. For example, after this extraordinary presentation by Mr. Ivezić, the director of APN and the real conditions offered by POS in my town, no young family was interested in buying an apartment through the POS programme. This may happen, and we have seen from what the Minister has read, when she read the cities in which these apartments are located. I haven't heard of any other city than Vukovar, which is located in the area of special state care where there are extra housing units. This is the situation and it is necessary, and when it is considered in the long term, of course this is a short-term measure, because we will talk about housing policy at the level of the Republic of Croatia, this should be taken into account when considering how to go into the housing areas of special state care, because property prices are much less than in the larger, more developed areas of the Republic of Croatia and where these programmes unfortunately do not pass. Of course, it gives support to this program. For every commendation, it's going to go through APN, because we really have one quality infrastructure there to implement this programme. I believe in the success of this Law on encouraging the sale of apartments, and we look forward to a long-term housing policy in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50056	Thank you. We have one correction and a few replicas. First correction, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50057	Well, it's incorrect that you said this was helping young people buy their first apartment. This is blackmailing young people that if they want to buy the first apartment, they can only buy one of these 2,000 315 apartments that the government sells. For if the young men find another apartment, which is not a new building, which would be better for them, because it is cheaper for them, because it is better for them, and above all it is for them at a price, because it is cheaper for them, and their credit is smaller and their war is smaller, then it can't. He can't. Under this law, he can't. He won't get any relief. Only if they buy these apartments, just these 2,000 315, which the government said would boost their sale. It's not helping young people, it's blackmailing young people. Either this or there's no help.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50058	Thank you. Replication response. No, I don't. I'm sorry, I'm just moving now. It is the turn of the replica, the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50059	Comrade Huška, this subject can't be understood by anyone who hasn't been in a situation like this. No one who has not been in a situation to buy their own strengths, resources, be forced to raise loans and buy an apartment can ever talk about such a subject. But I wouldn't agree with you if it wasn't for whoever was buying the first apartment without a loan. There are many of my dad's sons and daughters who sat together in BMW leather chairs and leather chairs in the living room of a new apartment without raising their loans. But those who have passed this time know what this convenience is compared to what it was. Well, I'm just gonna say my case, that 25 years ago, even though the loan fund was bigger than the demand, I couldn't get a loan because I wasn't politically active. And in the bank, I was forced to raise a loan with 12% interest, four judges and four guarantee creditors. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50060	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague, I hope that the time will come in Croatia when all young people will be able to buy apartments from some kind of savings, parental savings, heritage, one legal route without leather chairs and BMWs and surely we must all work together to create such conditions in Croatia. This is one opportunity I believe many young families will accept, that they will not miss it. Because such opportunities, such conditions in these 20 years of the existence of an independent Republic of Croatia have never existed before, and I'm really inviting them to join this project. I'm sure they'll all profit together.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50062	Thank you. Now it is the turn of the replica, the distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50063	Well, once again, I have a colleague, Huška, first of all, there's no doubt that there are certain benefits for those who are going to buy by this model, but a little bit of mystification of these benefits. You know, 2%, that's inter-calary interest 2%. It will be paid for 20 years while a loan is paid in the commercial bank. And beyond that, it's a perfectly decent interest that doesn't even mean God knows what a relief it might be to get the impression of how we're talking here today. That's one, so I don't believe in much relief. And secondly, I call upon the Minister to meet in this House in a year's time, and let's say that you give us information on how many people remain employed in construction unless God gives us something that might encourage construction in the right way except this. I say we'll come back to 100,000 employees about five, six years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50064	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50065	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I hope your tongue really got tangled up when you said don't God, not that you meant it subconsciously. God forbid there's any realisation of this program. I'm glad you see it too, and you recognize certain benefits through this program, and since I was in that situation that someone offered me a reduction in interest 2% before 11, 12 years ago when I raised a housing loan with those first salaries that we had in the family, I would accept it at that point of the armpit by counting, of course, on better incomes in the family over 10, 15, 20 years and easier payment of that loan, and rapid arrival to the first real estate and housing solution perhaps for the entire life of a family.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50066	Thank you. There's a replica of Gordana Sobol's distinguished MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50067	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, actually, I'd like to show myself to the part where, I'd say, even with a little enthusiasm, I'd like to talk about this law and the benefits that it offers and invites young people to actually get into those loans. I'm afraid that all together, or most of all, in relation to us and hence our skepticism is actually coming out, you're forgetting the real situation today. These young people, what young people? The ones who got out of college, school, etc., and are waiting for the first job? Those who got the first job but got it for a certain time and who in a few months will be renewed contract for a certain time and so on for years. And so for years. Let's face reality. Is that the 130,000 unemployed of the total number of unemployed up to 38 years of age? What are we talking about, buddy? So, there's one general, insecure situation you all seem to be forgetting. How's that man gonna get here? He'll be competing for these funds that the state will grant. How's he gonna get a loan from the bank? Come on, tell me, how is he gonna get a loan from the bank today? And go, so he won't get it because he's working for a while. Well, over 80% of new contracts are contracts for a certain time. And he can't get a housing loan. Or he can make it happen, but he doesn't know under what conditions. And otherwise this one crisis today and the general uncertainty that even if he has a job, he'll keep it. And these are the problems that arise and all of us have to wonder when we have in our hands and this kind of bill with all the good intentions that we've all pointed out here, but I kind of have the impression that you're coming in, you're raising credits, you're looking at a favourable, favourable, favourable, and actually, please, where we live.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50068	Thank you. You're out of time. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50069	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Sobol in one part can agree with you. The insecurity of the workplace today is not only in Croatia, but in Europe and around the world. Today, no one can guarantee that he will be working for a year, two at the company where he was employed, and there's no way we can do any special help. The labour law regulates work for a certain period of time. It can't go on forever either, and that's the end of it. And I believe that with what you've stated, 130 thousand young people unemployed up to 30 years of age, I hope there are 2 thousand 300 employees as many housing units here and I'm sure there will be so many people who are in need of an apartment. Who have a permanent job, which will successfully compete in these competitions to buy apartments through business banks. It's up to all of us to work on these remaining 130,000 unemployed. To support almost every week the new government measures going towards employment, keeping jobs so that the number of young people is reduced, that unemployment stagnates and, of course, that we give support to all together here in the government's implementation of these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50070	Thank you. It is the turn of the replica, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50071	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this debate certainly opened many areas today from the professional section preceded by his colleague Roshin, but you have touched a very important issue and shared your experience with us so to speak about this particular area of guarantees and facilitating the documentation for the outcome. You have, of course, been through the most difficult part with your experience, but I certainly know a part of the young people who also have intentions now in these circumstances, but there is always that fear in them and fellow Maric was also involved in the debate in that part that regarding the necessary documentation that should also be cautious in that part and keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50072	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50073	Thank you, colleague, for your participation through the replica. Well, it's one life experience that wasn't the best, and it could have been even more complicated. At the end of this whole story, the year-long collection of papers, documents, and in this programme the benefits were members and the advantages of the number of family members. At the end of that story, another child was born to me. And then at the bank, they offered me the opportunity to get a bigger loan. I thanked you very much because I was afraid of the procedure for another year at the realization of this new privilege of a new family member. And I hope that really these people who are going into these credit arrangements today have a much simpler way than we used to have at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50074	Thank you. It is next to the replica of the esteemed representative of Joseph Lek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50075	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Huška, there is no social policy in this project and the law. Our government, in an explanation, is brutally clear about why it proposes this law. To enable builders, it means to builders and investors to sell 2 thousand 300 apartments at the same time. Subjective. The government knows which apartments they aim to sell and whose they are. There is no motive for any social or care of the living young people. If so, then the government, and believes in the future of the country and development, would say that interest will be a reduction in how the value system in the Republic of Croatia develops. These interest rates are extremely high if the government does not think Croatia will develop in a positive direction then they are relatively good today. This really is the law that only targeted the sale of 2 000 300 apartments of a well-known producer, at the same time by the investor. And there is no systematic policy to secure housing for young people or give God the systematic policy of development of POS. So you say yourself POS stays and the government over there wants to save some other performers. And the government's program is for God's sake, POS. Encouragement housing. So who's closing down the space to whom now? He's ruling himself. I don't really understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50076	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So we're talking about the same thing and I think we're going in the same direction but in different ways. The POS is staying. POS doesn't touch anybody with this. POS is a long-term programme from some of the previous times that are being spent today, with the help of the Real Estate Agency in most parts of the Republic of Croatia. I was talking about the POS problem in the war-torn areas and real estate prices in those parts of the Republic of Croatia. The system policy of POS exists. I believe that it will develop, that it will be even more quality, with even better conditions, as the economy develops and the general state in the Republic of Croatia. This is one short term, so we can call it a fire strike to start the real estate market, to sell these 2,000 300 apartments. No one here is talking about social policy, that there's a special social feeling here. But when we talk and talk about it, do you know how much interest these days is on housing loans that people raise in commercial banks, they raise them. 7, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10.5% and here they're going to get a 5.5% loan. So then there's this kind of social feeling, some different thinking besides selling 2,000 300 apartments on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50078	Thank you. And here's the last replica, the distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50079	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, Huška, in his discussion and later in reply to the replica, talked about his negative experience when he had a housing loan for the apartment. In doing so he spoke in a way like that, in fact, all these negativitys were sort of over time. Unfortunately, they didn't. And here you have to say that even now, according to this model that the state is offering, most of the value of the apartment is going to be a bank loan, too. So, the state only lends up to 30 percent of the value of the apartment, and for everything else, and that's going to be a huge amount between 400 and 500 thousand kuna, again young people will have to take bank credit on bank terms. So this time too, the bank will determine which documents will have to be submitted, how many guarantees will need to be provided, etc. So the story in one of the largest parts still remains, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50080	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50081	... replicas. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] That was one experience from 12 years ago. As far as I know today in commercial banks, the procedure is far simpler. And with this influence and the share of the state in the overall programme, I believe that the state will provide certain conditions for the implementation of this programme. We see that the deadline for the end of 2011, if God didn't give these people who go for loans, they had the situation and the experience I had at the time, the question of whether to 31. 12. In 2011, he succeeded in realising and spending that loan. Question. But I believe it's one thing to say at that time experience as it was at that moment. Today is a different situation. I believe that the resolution ministry and the government will succeed in affecting business banks to simplify the procedure and thus speed up. Because it's not our goal to keep this going for a year and a half, but to quickly spin the real estate market and these 2,000 300 apartments to find new owners as soon as possible, of course to the banks to make these loans real. And that's why I'm saying that fellow Sobol says a little bit with excitement because I believe in this program, I believe in the realization of this programme because today the conditions are completely different, especially when it's under the authority of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50082	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's time for the distinguished representative, Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50083	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Under this law, the government of the Republic of Croatia will be able to lend to the buyer of the first apartment between 100 and 300 euros per square cent, which I believe is certainly good news especially for young people who later make marriages because they do not have the basic conditions for living and living or for their families. Today, when people can barely make ends meet, the good news is that there's actually someone who wants to lend you money and when it's on such favourable terms with a 20-year-old start and a 2% interest, then I can say first that this law is welcome and I will support it. According to rough calculations, the first apartment would be up to 40% more favourable. I believe that this year's sale of apartments and housing would be launched and by the end of 2010, thousands of apartments could be sold along with state loans. It is estimated that only in the wider area of the city of Zagreb is 10,000 unsold apartments and in all Croatia about 15 thousand. However, the prices of real estate in Croatia are too high. For the state, 300 million kunas of VAT have been frozen in unsold apartments, and it is clear that the country sees its interest in that segment. It is positive that in the government loan, investors who have more expensive property than 1,000 euros per square metre will not be able to participate in the loan, which is a thousand 968 euros per square metre with VAT, and I hope that this will also be pressure on investors to lower prices especially in Zagreb, where the square meter of the apartment is between a thousand 800 euros up to an impertinent 2.5 thousand euros. Those investors who build apartments and announce that the square of their apartment will reach 10,000 euros, can only say that they are obsessing and obviously mocking all of us. The difference between this model that the government proposes with this law and the existing POS model is that a citizen can choose the location himself, he can choose the square of the apartment, he can choose the bank and APN through which the whole process takes place will pay the builder the amount that is given to the scales in the law and that will also be participation, so the replacement for the participation that the citizens should give to buy the apartment. At the same time, APN will ask the tax administration for all confirmations of the builder from which the apartment is purchased and the procedure will be simpler and shorter for the citizens than it has been before. My opinion is that the government, or APN, should enter the company's balance sheet and see how these companies were building. Companies that were in difficulty at 1.7.2008 will not be able to participate in this process and it clearly states in the law. In addition, construction companies that paid off extraordinary dividends in 2008 and 2009 should not enter this subsidy programme. In fact, most investors, especially in the housing sector, rather than recapitalising and helping the companies from which they had benefited for almost ten years, drew money by paying for themselves high dividends. Workers are fired by justifying crises and leave unfinished or unsold projects or apartments to banks. As far as they're concerned, the company can go into bankruptcy, they've gotten the money out in time, but that doesn't stop them from accusing the state in public or looking for other culprits by asking for financial help for companies. In general, banks do not have a majority owner in the world, shareholders are various institutional investors, funds and various investors. The largest single shareholder, for example, UniCredit of the owner of a Croatian bank, is the Libyan government with 7% shares. The problem is that companies without a majority owner where all the responsibility is to managers who have been setting up balance sheets and literally sharing loans with everyone just to pay themselves huge bonuses and rewards and whose tsunamis now orbit the world. Since they do not have bank owners in the Republic of Croatia, they have not paid dividends but have reinvested all the money earned over the past decade. Where's that money the banks made? It is largely over 50% in housing loans with us in charge of the citizen. For the past year, banks showed a 24% lower profit than in 2008 primarily due to a balance sheet reservation for unsold apartments. It would've been smaller if they hadn't raised interest rates. the price of capital to existing clients on average from 4% to 7%. First they lured us with cheap loans and when the crisis came, they transferred all the risks to their clients. It is nevertheless a Croatian specificity to all so-called the amount of time signed with clients in the long term to 20 years and over is transferred to clients. We can moralize and say that it is common to investors and bankers, i.e. the private capital when he has a bad loss burden he wants to share with the state, i.e. with taxpayers even though we are not shareholders and whether or not they want to share a good profit. Bankers, investors, builders must share the burden of this crisis because if the cost of real estate has jumped from a thousand to 2,000 euros for the same product, it can also be returned. It is a public secret that global crises are caused by the crisis, i.e. lack of conscious and moral people. Every crisis is an opportunity like this, but we need new experts on humanity raised from healthy families. If we bring the macro-economics down to the level of micro-economy, we come to a micro-world, which is the family that is today the most endangered and attacked. Without a strong family, we'll have permanent crises. Therefore, this is a good opportunity to mention young families who would like to stay in the Croatian village, move to a village or smaller towns, I believe that they should be able to house them with the support of the state as foreseen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme and the rebirth of the Croatian village. Croatia's rural area has been sparsely populated today and over the next ten years, due to biological reasons, it could be reduced by 400 thousand inhabitants. It should attract to the Croatian village part of the city's population, especially young families who are not satisfied with the city's lifestyle. I primarily think about increasing pollution, traffic jams, lack of living space and close social contacts, the increase of all forms of crime, the loss of traditional identity values, and not least the increasing cost of living, especially living space. The assumption is that most of the new residents of the village would keep their previous jobs in the city. Given the increasing road connection Croatia has to travel to work, there should be no bigger problem. However, in order for this part of the town population to choose to move to rural areas and for young people living in the countryside today to live in the countryside, it is necessary to ensure an approximately equal level of infrastructure services that they have in urban areas. An additional motive for the arrival of new inhabitants to the countryside would be to address their living space. Therefore, within this section, I propose to encourage housebuilding in the rural area. Young families would be able to reach housing under favourable financial conditions. In a number of villages, primarily those with a small population, settlements would be formed to build family homes. Interested families would receive long-term loans for the purchase of construction land and the construction of family homes, and the land price should be symbolic, while local self-government units should further release them from paying the municipal fee. I wish that such a legal proposal would soon be found in the parliamentary procedure because we need it more than we need it, just like the one we're discussing today and which I'm going to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50084	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50085	Thank you very much. Comrade Petyr, I liked the intonation of your debate both analytically and realistically and calmly. It's usually seen in black and white technology, and you've painted it in more colors and you've included the role of banks because it really depends on the effectiveness of these measures. What measures will be taken, whether they will be more effective than we expect or less effective, will depend largely on the terms of the banks, although we cannot ignore that this encourages and perhaps part-involvement of our own funds that it is possible to combine both something and savings, so these incentives, loans and the rest of the assets of the commercial banks. For example, it has increased the savings of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. I understand indeed those who do not have an apartment and who have problems obtaining funds, but one part and that savings may be activated when such a measure is in motion. Therefore, we can look at things and celebrate and absolutely deny them, but the fact is that such a proposal can bring many benefits, it will certainly bring some but no negatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50086	Thank you. Replication response. Dear Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50087	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Maric, thank you for the compliments you gave me. I expected your replica in terms of the tone of my debate and knowing the way you're discussing it and being known that you don't have any hair on your tongue and that you call things real names, no matter what the price. Well, here's a rare one who's able to call things a real name. You and I are in that group. I hope some more will join, but in any case, I agree with you that this law is welcome and that is why it is worth supporting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50088	Okay. Finally one fun replica. Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, respected Marina Matulović Dropulić, Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I just wanted to answer Mrs. Petir, and Mr. Grubisic also asked one question about rural houses and upgrades, upgrades and the like. We have had this since 2004 in amendments to the POS Law. So, any man who wants to build a house or build a house in the city or build a house on his own, means if he has a parent's house and wants to build something up, upgrade or build a new house, he can contact APN, that's what we published on our website. They can come up without a list or anything because we have the means to do it, and we have too few interested. So, the young people who want to work can, that's all I wanted to say, I can do right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50090	All right, thank you to the Minister of Honor as well. It is up to the honourable representative, Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And then it's the Honorable Representative Zeljko Turk's turn. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50091	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A colleague, Maric, noticed handsomely that in life, in politics, nothing was black and white, so everything has its extremes on one side of the stick and on the other side of the stick as well as when we talk about this topic. The fact is that it certainly measures through the proposal of this law to bring about a certain improvement, but definitely they are not the only rescue measure that will significantly change the existing situation or the promoter had that intention when he came out here with this bill. I may try to expand the topic directly related outside these few points of the law because we have already been discussing it for almost 6.7 hours directly, and with some existing findings impose some other dilemmas or reflections. Therefore, it is clearly said that since the creation of the Croatian state over 25 billion investments related to housing on different grounds, as the minister said, this 2010 is almost 1 billion kunas of investment with different foundations, and when it comes to housing issues whether it relates to POS, whether it relates to the defence population, whether it relates to certain tenants' rights on different grounds, the subject of special state concerns and not to the list further. So these are the facts, these are the findings behind which the state budget stands and in themselves they speak enough. It is indisputable that these measures, through this law, encourage consumption, enable the purchase of apartments under more favourable conditions and definitely encourage certain segments and construction, with a particular desire to encourage further investment and construction because we know that construction generally encourages and complete development of entrepreneurship as one of the most qualitative branches of the economy. We are aware that during the time back of several years, housing was one of the exceptional or high-quality profitable activities and that there was a boom building. We, other than this business, are aware of the situation and the pressures that at these given moments were related to the building of dwellings with the fundamental thought that was being carried out, which is therefore the profit of the one that invests. Here I would now speak a few sentences about what this ministry has done over the past few years, and we would like to conclude that through the legal provisions, an extremely large number has been passed according to the law of spatial plans of counties, spatial plans of cities and municipalities, urban plans, arrangements of certain parts of settlements and streets, and therefore some other plans, DPU, while they were or something like that. Why am I saying that? Such a new approach to the development of spatial and in-house plans definitely created preconditions for the construction and complete municipal infrastructure as a prerequisite for the construction of apartments or houses themselves, and here I am thinking first of all about designing everything that makes this foundation of municipal infrastructure, gas, water, sewage, DTK sewerage and roads and in some way introduces or introduces order in this spatial planning but then also in the architectural arrangement of cities, municipalities or space and environments that apply. Madam Minister, it's a really big job, and we who found these laws in the local self-government have found ourselves in a good part and in an unguarded grape, because there were not enough personnel at that very first moment to do so. But certainly after a few years of working out of it you can see the results. Why am I saying this here? Because the question of the very prices of apartments and living conditions in apartments is not only related to the price of the apartment, but it is one of the essential segments of total life on the premises, so when we add kindergartens, schools, business zones, retirement homes, they are all ultimately items affecting the home budget. In order for someone to come and move to a particular area, they took an apartment except for the prices of the apartment an important feature of whether it has a kindergarten nearby and whether it can be entered, what is the situation with basic schooling and with some other forms of social and innocuous life. So my comment or finding to the conclusion is that the price of the apartment is one of the most important elements. But next to it, the very important conditions for buying apartments are those that I have just cited. In the end, I want to conclude that this measure that is here today under this bill, and I believe and hope to be passed. So one is just an anti-recession measure. I hope and believe that it will receive results with a special indication that the promoter himself had a fundamental idea, and that it is through a limited price at which the sale is directed in some way and acts socially through such prices of dwellings on our household. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50092	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50093	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague of Turks, and the government, in an explanation, says it encourages the sale of the apartments in question. The government does not care about the other 13,000 finished flats that are worth between 1600 and 2000 euros in bank balances. With this measure, the Government is unrealistically, unrealistically suggesting you will remain that price. This does not encourage the development of the situation, nor does housing. If true, and it is true, at least that 13000 apartments are not for one year, but two years waiting for the buyer and that the bank balances are set as a price of at least 2000 euros. It's a blockade. And now the government says we're going to help sell the 2300 apartments in question. All she had to do was give a picture of the company and the director. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50094	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50095	A clearly respected colleague that life is not black white, so when I say one thing, you two, then about the last few hours we've been opposing attitudes and as I say my findings, so you keep repeating these. And probably if we were still discussing for the next few hours, we probably wouldn't have come and brought a coherent attitude. It is clear that only the time ahead of us in the next year and a half will be the measure of the decision in which this law went and whether it won the results, and I believe that it will.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50096	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative in the individual debate Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State. I would like to say immediately in the introduction that I will support this law in the text as proposed by the Government and that I will submit an amendment to Article 18. But before that, I would like to say that this law is another one in a series of measures that the Croatian Government is implementing, bringing forward, and in order to encourage the Croatian economy and recover the Croatian economy. And on that trail, I see also the adoption of this law, and I disagree with all those who in the discussion of two, whether this law helps more future customers of the apartment and whether it is then a social measure or more helpful to the builders, those who built the apartments, so now that the sale of the apartment is stopped practically does not have production, and in large part they have to fire their employees. Therefore, I support this law and in the part where we defend this position that it goes and is directed towards customers and future owners of the apartment, but I also do not run away from it, but I also support the fact that this law is aimed at builders who have employees if it is true, and I believe that it is true because it is the data that we have received that around 150,000 employees are working in Croatian construction although 15000 in the last few months they have lost their jobs then this law, if even in most of it is aimed at them, should support it. Therefore, immediately at the beginning I want to say independently about which social category this law is more focused because it is directed towards both categories. The second thing I want to say is what you, Madam Minister, said in the opening part this morning, is that in addition to these hundreds of millions that will be used this year to encourage, to subsidize, that the Croatian Government is implementing at the same time five other programmes and that for these five other programmes it sets out about one billion kuna. Therefore, this law will in no way interfere with the implementation of these five other programmes. However, they are being complemented and therefore should be supported because it is new, so one is a new measure aimed at future owners of apartments, which is usually young people. But on the other hand, according to the builders who have their employees. This law practically ceases to apply the Law on a long-term financing fund with the support of the state and the funds that are currently on the gyrocalculation of the fund, i.e. at the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, will be re-routed to encourage the provision of clearly favourable loans in this law and will further allocate more than 60 million kuna from the state budget in order to achieve a fund of around 100 million kuna, which, I am deeply convinced, would then encourage the purchase of apartments, thus allowing for the continuation of construction, especially in the section relating to housing. From that, it is good and I support it, therefore, that it is said here that this law will refer to apartments that will have administrative permission on the day of entry into force of this law. Why is that good? It is good, therefore, that this means that the law primarily refers to new apartments, apartments that have not yet been in traffic. And it is illusory to expect that someone who owns one or 200 or 500 apartments and who are not sold will now go to some new construction process, that they will go to a new building of apartments when they have in their stock thousands of apartments or 500 apartments. Therefore, this is very important and I would like to point out that it is precisely with the provision that the apartment must have a valid permit, until the law enters into force and has not been sold, we are talking about new apartments that are simply waiting to be sold so that their owner, or builder, can move into a new building process. And what's important, what I want to point out is the next thing. That when we talk about 2,000 and 300 apartments, the government does not think about the exact location of the apartments and the well-established builders. This is the information provided by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Is he exactly what he is? Whether it is 10 thousand apartments, whether it is 6 thousand apartments, this is one indicative data available to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which it has provided and which has served as only one of the arguments to the Government when it went into this law to further strengthen the position towards which it should move towards encouraging the construction of apartments, i.e. the promotion of housing because existing new apartments have not been sold. I also support the fact and here I will give the amendment, so the first 20 years of interest is only 2% on the funds that will be given through the loan, and for the rest of the time that the loan or loan will be 5%. So then I propose an amendment so that, on that interest, VAT is not accounted for, so value added tax, and not in the same way as it was settled in the State Incentive Apartment Law, so the fixed interest would indeed be 2% at the time of the beginning, and 5% at the time when the loan begins to return. One more thing I think is very good at this law. I'm estimating the good news that it's a higher incentive for a cheaper apartment, for a cheaper price of a four-foot apartment. I support this because we are aware that the higher prices of apartments in the cities, primarily in Zagreb or in attractive cities such as Dubrovnik, such as cities in Istria, etc. I believe that when we make this law clear that a greater subsidy will be given at a lower price of the apartment, that we send a clear message that we want to drop prices per meter square, but that users will also be young people who intend to return to their homes, who want to start their family there, in those parts of Croatia, rural areas of Croatia where the price of one square metre is simply lower than in the city of Zagreb or some other, larger cities in the Republic of Croatia. And another important thing that I think also needs to be pointed out, and that is also today there have been a lot of words here in this debate. Was it even necessary to pass such a law and leave that at a time when the offer is higher than the demand market just lower the price of the apartment? So that was here to discuss today in the Parliament. I believe that if we wait for the banks or builders or the market in one way or another to be just lower the price of the apartment, for example, thinking in the neighbouring country, that we will come into a situation that the apartments will not be sold, that for a while, I think neither the bank nor all those who own the apartments, nor the divers nor the builders will not lower the price of the apartment, however, and that we will get the situation that the apartments will remain unsold, and that there will be an even greater number of unemployed in the construction industry in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this was the right moment for me to adopt this law, to encourage the sale of apartments and then to enable a new investment cycle in Croatia's housing. And I therefore hold that, therefore, it is the right time for this law to be passed and it will really encourage new housing in Croatia. And to conclude, according to me, this law will benefit customers, too, because it is clear that at the time when they have to allocate large funds to buy an apartment with an amount of 14, 15, 16 thousand euros, as far as it can under this law at the beginning, and at the moment when it needs an additional 10, 15 thousand euros to equip the apartment, I hold that it is an excellent measure and that it really helps a young man at the right time when he wants to buy an apartment. It also helps the builder clearly, because this way it will be easier to get into a position to sell apartments, and certainly the state will benefit at the end, because through VAT, a large part of the funds will be returned to the state budget. So here's the amendment I've already said I'm proposing it to article 18 of this law and I'm going to support the law in that section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50098	Thank you. And we have three replicas. First is Honorable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50099	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you have rightly responded to the remarks that this law contains a less social component and that it is more in favour of construction. Well, then, let it go in favor of many, but it still contains a social component because it helps young people get to the apartment a little easier. It also helps builders. Well, let her help. I'm glad it helps, too, because it's going to affect at least a little bit of unemployment and a reduction in GDP, but it's also encouraging, maybe a lot of people are going to surprise me by saying that to the banks. Let the banks also take this chance, and some in the competition, because now there is competition in the banking market, because it is not just 2 banks as it is in the POS situation, but it is all banks and housing savings, so let them also be encouraged to promote this housing policy as much as possible. Because otherwise it's a decline in housing loans. In the last year alone, 590 million kuna was increased and the total wage of housing loans to all citizens is 53.3 billion, while the total debt of citizens is 123 billion. That's 43% of total debt on housing loans. The average in the EU is twice that. In the EU, housing is 80 and more in the overall responsibility of citizens. And in Croatia, it's only 42%. And this is an opportunity to change the structure of the placement and responsibilities of citizens who should long-term benefit from housing loans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50100	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50101	It is true, Mr. Representative, that this law will benefit everyone. And in that part, I also said that I would support the law because I have no intention of reading through this law whether more benefits will be given to a customer or an employee in a particular company because the sale of apartments will be launched by the housing process and he will remain employed. So it's very important. And that, and that's an important fact, that this measure when it moves with the provision of loans to a future buyer and the total amount it will give to the bank will be smaller. Because now the bank interest when the interest is weighted on the amount that he will have to pay to the bank for a loan that will add more to this part of the loan he will take over from APN will certainly have to pay less the total interest on an apartment that would be bigger if there was no combination between the loans he will take from the business bank and the loans he will receive from the Agency. Therefore, as you said yourself, the customer will have the benefit, and the builders will have it very clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50102	Thank you. We have the next line, distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Bačić you rightly warned in fact that the whole day is talking about the flats in question allegedly where they're specifically targeting certain companies or certain apartments. So, it's a day-long attempt today by the SDP actually to deceive the public that the government is using this bill to try exactly certain apartments from certain companies to buy. He refers to all the new apartments, so all the new apartments. And that's what you can't read. All new apartments. So, it's about... Read it well, that's what it's all about. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what it's all about, dear colleagues, that you deceive the public. Read, the data on 2300 apartments is data from the Chamber of Commerce. And the second paragraph discusses the consequences of the law, which will arise by passing the law. It's about the flats in question, but it's about a second paragraph that talks about first-time apartments, so it's about the first time they've bought new apartments in those apartments that are going to be bigger than the apartments they own. And it's about new apartments that have a useful license. And it's of course about helping all the construction companies that have new apartments, unsold apartments. That's what this is about. Well, I've just consulted with the minister, of course I've been consulting because without consulting, it's clear that what you're interpreting doesn't apply to this first part. Therefore, it is very clear that it is about new apartments, so it is not aimed at any company. Any company that has new apartments can, of course, sell these apartments to all citizens who are interested in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, if they have this price they're talking about. If they have the price prescribed here by law. So all those who have new apartments that enter this price can sell their apartments. It's not about any specifically targeted companies now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50104	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50105	To all those who have those prices. That's what this is about. And that's the whole day you've been trying to talk about some of the flats in question like that's exactly apartment A of that and that company.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50106	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50107	Don't deceive the public, it's a hoax.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50108	Replica response, distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's what I said in my debate, Mr. Matusic has now further explained. But there's something else I want to say. So at this point we don't know what these apartments are, where these apartments are important is that the apartment has a useful license and it can be all those apartments that will be in a position to be sold by the moment of entry into force. And that's one thing. And the other thing, no one, whatever the law, can force a buyer to buy an apartment that he doesn't buy. He'll buy that apartment that suits him at both his location and his price. It's his choice. The fact that you would like to move here now that the government is proposing or forcing the buyer to buy an apartment can only be an insinuation, but the final decision on where he will buy it in which city, where it remains the decision on the buyer himself. And that's what I said in my introduction. I think the buyer will ask that location to be such and the price to be his biggest incentive. So, to be as low as the price of the apartment. And I think that's exactly what the price of the apartment is going to fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50110	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50111	As a matter of fact, you fellow Bacic leave the good premise and then come to a completely unexpected misconclusion. You say nicely that the law of the market is in force and that it would be logical to expect that the market law in which the current offer is higher than the demand leads to prices falling. It is the universal law of the market that applies worldwide and in all cases except in Croatia when it comes to apartments. Instead of letting market law regulate price declines, we intervene with this special law. Just because we intervene with a special law the universal law of the market won't even be worth it, prices won't fall. So why would the builders lower prices when clearly the government is on their hands? And what I'm about to tell you, I wouldn't have told you if it wasn't for Matushic's intervention. That's where he helped you or made it work. The government wrote here in an explanation that it is 2315 apartments according to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. First, until she collected all the complete HGK data, she shouldn't have gone into this law. This is about, I don't know, 50, 60, 70 construction companies. And I ask you, Bačić, are you so sure that ministers and associated persons don't have shares in these companies that that's why this law is being offered? While Matušić is already saying that we deceive the public that it is 2,000 315 apartments, because he cannot read or refuses to read what the government itself has written. It is 2 thousand 315 apartments in question, they are encouraged and passed by law for them, and for these construction firms the law is passed. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50112	Thank you. Time. Thank you. I'd beg you to argue all day about that law. There is no need for us to start now in such a way now at the end of the debate, inserting heavy accusations and words. Please stick to the fine customs of speaking nicely. And now the reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am almost all day in the assembly and I can conclude that the debate was very tolerated regardless of how some of your colleagues disagreed or disagreed less with the text of the law, but were very correct in replicating and putting their views forward. But from you, Mr. Stazic, I didn't expect anything else from what you said, so it didn't surprise me. But you can't miss an opportunity to hurt and insult without the arguments of anyone you disagree with. So it's your right. We don't accept your right and I mean it doesn't serve in honor the way you've replicated anything you've caused me. But that's another thing. What I'm trying to say, and I said it, but I'll do it again. So, in the last year, according to the data we received from the statistics on construction prices, it has dropped 3 to 4%. Therefore, I think that the government has no luxury or citizens, and especially employees in this sector wait for the price of a square apartment meter to fall another 2.3% in the next year and then we say that this is sufficient reason to encourage the purchase of an apartment in Croatia. So, I said and I will repeat, this measure was taken at the right time because whoever is the final buyer, and that is the future owner of the apartment, will lower at the moment when he asks for large funds to buy an apartment, will lower that price by 10 to 15 thousand euros. And later when he has lower costs, in 10 years he will return that amount to the full, and by this law we are helping him right at the crucial moment when he decides to buy the apartment and on favourable terms. And if we also help builders, let them be helped too, for it also helps all those who are employed, and these are the workers for whom this law is largely proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50114	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, respected Marina Matulović Dropulić, Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I was trying to clear up this situation. You all know, especially Mr. Leco, who is making phone calls right now as the law works. And the law is done in a way that always says the score, right? The score says what we get from the Chamber of Commerce. That we said in the law that these apartments are bought at those locations. Mrs. Sobol asked me where those apartments were located. I have answered her what is to us the Chamber of Commerce, and what you have seen, and who are the performers. Therefore, the one who first finds an apartment that fits all of our conditions, and is located in a carlovac that is not here, either in Spain or I don't know where, and the price fits that and is, if he brings what he has to make a pre-contract with the performer and, by the way, he has to bring a bank confirmation that they're creditworthy, he'll buy that apartment. So it's not about these, why we asked the Chamber of Commerce to do that poll at all. It's only because the Chamber of Commerce has more insight into it because it has all the builders there to say how many apartments there are, because all the time they're talking about these numbers in the assembly today. Ten thousand, 15 thousand, 12 thousand God ask how many. We really don't know how many there are. But we do know that this year we can help lend thousands of apartments. Next year, if we can get more funds, there'll be more. If we don't, there'll be a thousand more or how much we can do. We only said this year it's a thousand apartments. As for this minister and related to construction firms. As far as I know, the only minister in our government who's connected to construction firms as you say I am. But IGH isn't a construction firm. Once and for all, there is not one single employee in the company except 700 graduate engineers, doctors of science and magistrates who work exclusively on project documentation and supervision, and do not perform works. So they're not a contractor, they don't have a license to perform. Therefore, it is the true truth of God.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50116	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. I think we're clear now. It is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50117	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here's this whole day's debate showed everything we really heard everything we needed to hear, but it also showed how much interest there is in a law like this that is extremely important. Because if we're saying that the apartment is a elemental need, it certainly says enough for itself, and that job was also mentioned. I will say of course more from my position of course and health. If health is completely mental, physical, social well - being, of course, in a good apartment, it certainly speaks for itself enough. But the data we heard today that there are apartments there with numbers, what is that number, but it slows down. The Chamber of Commerce said that the number 2 thousand was 315, 144,000 square meters remained unsold. Of course construction workers are under these circumstances many and fired and in that part we all agree that every job is precious. And under these circumstances comes this law that has several intentions, and one that no one disputes is therefore to help the existing construction industry. And there's nothing wrong with that. Saving any job in that part is important. Of course, there could be a further decline in housing sales in this year 2010 and that is also important to highlight. 150 thousand construction workers are employed, this is the famous data we heard today, there are about 14 thousand left, but it certainly matters if we help this part save any job that will help with this work. The second part we talked about is young people who are solving their basic needs, who are facing this problem and who are very difficult and complex and therefore need to be relieved. There were many things that were said from that preparatory part of the documentation expressed in particular by a colleague of Huška, and in the professional section that was spoken certainly this debate showed these many things, pointed to many moments but surely that if we wanted to make this law easier for these young people if the more favourable credit conditions were there, interest rates. Of course, the release of that sales tax, and that's an important moment. And under these circumstances, the highest state loan is offered, the buyers of the cheapest apartments, i.e. The amount of loans depends on the price of a square meter apartment and ranges from 100 to 300 euros per metre of a square apartment. For example, for a 70-metre-square apartment if the price per metre is to be 1,000 euros, the amount of loans will be 300 euros per metre square metre totaling 21 thousand euros of a more favourable state loan than 70,000 euros the cost of the apartment. So it's very clear, and everyone in the debate who participated said that the sale of about a thousand apartments this year would be boosted in the total value of 664 million kuna and of which, of course, about 113 million kuna could be marketed from VAT. So, given all the numbering arguments we come up with a situation where everyone wins, that's what's important to say. Therefore, builders who encourage new construction, other construction workers who save jobs and existence, third citizens who, under favourable conditions, solve their housing problems and, of course, the budget in that part. So there's no reason for these positive moments that we're all agreed to not support. I'll back him up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50118	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go. He's gone. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50119	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Your Honors Minister. We talked about housing a lot today, and I have to say when I went to work in the morning that I was in two construction sites where there were no workers, so I started working on it. Obviously, something's lively and since there aren't any of those apartments in these apartments, they're obviously in construction and they're not in that records, but I can tell you that you're still building a lot. I'm talking about the Holy Sunday area, I'm talking about Samobor first of all and the east side of Long Village where a huge number of apartments were built and unsold. Prices are clearly downhill, and they are still down to a thousand euros and customers are telling investors that more prices are coming down by 100, 200 and 300 euros in agreement with them. So it's not true that someone is waiting for government measures to eventually benefit from something but simply sell people at low prices of apartments to get rid of it because it's obvious that they have to pay someone back, normal banks won't look kindly at waiting and stuff. Therefore, this measure will be of great benefit to all, above all to all those who buy apartments for customers because they will be able to afford a few squares more, they may be able to afford a better quality apartment, and this measure is very good. But it should be said that there will be no new construction until at least some of the buildings are sold, and that is why this is very welcome. So, you need to run again it's almost the whole industry, at least we had the industry I have to say although along the way it should be noted that building apartments really dealt with everything. It's amazing, we have a whole series of craftsmen, importers who even deal with everything. They were all building apartments. For a while, it went well, and in record time, apartments were sold out, which we thought nobody would buy right off the highway. So I'm not talking about attractive apartments at all, in attractive places. And clearly by coming to the crisis, I also claim by fear, by scaring potential customers that it does seem to care a little bit. Where do you see it best? You can tell by the huge amount of money that's in the banks, by savings. The savings have grown terribly, and the goal is for all of us to actually run and spend, and consumption is popular in this people just by investing in apartments, apartments and the like. So, by the number of real estate I already said today let's really get ahead of ourselves probably in Europe because everyone wants their apartment and in any case it's good but normal for it to be conditions. There are still a lot of young people working, having safe jobs, making good money and wanting to stand alone, despite having to say I have built up my parents' capacities and I have a whole series of neighbors who built houses twice the size of mine and expected their children to be with them. They're people themselves, so it's simply obvious that the desire of young people to be alone is great. And that's where I expect it to be. This is still about significant money, significant sums. So, I think the state is doing well, that young people will certainly recognize it because it gets some money now that they may be missing 5, 10, 20 thousand euros it's a pretty good stimulant to go into something. I have to say, today we've heard other things. I had either luck or accident that I studied the construction of POS apartments in one investigative commission in 2002, 2003, which were built and spotted all and studied all the crime that had arisen from this, abuse in every way possible, not to mention the quality of the dwellings. I'll tell you the quality of POS construction on Rab, the building is falling apart. On Cres disaster, with the fact that in the annexes even the company that did it got 29 garages and 9 business spaces by why and how no one alive knows. So in POS, the Spanish water was leaking out here big in some buildings, but there was a time when the minister could assign his companies a job so it was much simpler and it didn't fit. In the construction of apartments in Vukovar were forged construction contracts. So there's a whole series of things and today we're here boasting about POS. Today we're saying that actually the new POS would be a better solution than this, but be assured that's definitely not true. There are unsold apartments very much in the Sesvets, we know that, which was built by the City of Zagreb. I don't know how it's going to work out, but it's probably gonna have to go down a hell of a lot to actually do that. I repeat again that a large part of the investors who failed to sell the apartments began to buy in very large quantities of furniture. They're setting up these apartments, renting apartments, and it's going relatively well. Again it means that even if the wood industry has gone a little better, the traffic has gone here, but ultimately knowing the mentality of our people, they will all try to buy that apartment sooner or later. So we're just a little different from Europe, but we have to be proud of something. It is therefore important to commend these measures and to expect all other measures that will stimulate the economy, and the good ones already have hints. In fact, it's known that on the Holy Sunday we have somewhere over a thousand of which 1200 companies, I speak again from the factories to the cafes. And I talked to a little stronger, bigger producers, and here's one that has over 500 employees and says it went well, that exports have moved again to a more significant extent, and that optimism I think we should spread unlike what we're talking about here and we're actually celebrating pessimism because pessimism is obviously the desire of all of you out of the opposition that makes you feel better about the times being blacker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50120	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. Today, much has been said about the law that is before us, but what I would say is that I consider this law to be particularly positive and necessary in these moments of economic crisis in our country. It was strange to hear that something positive could create a negative story, that here I am as a junior representative and my colleagues who are also at the university had an opportunity with the help of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and similar such loans to their first housing square. When we were buying these apartments, we had salaries of 4.5,000 kunas, too, it was uncertain, but with our efforts and work and belief that what we are offered at times when it can be offered under more favourable conditions and when we can take care of ourselves, first of all, such measures in these conditions should be considered positive. The time ahead will show whether what is said today has its meaning in negativity. I don't think there is, that this law that is before us needs to be supported, above all, by what at these times is especially an economy and one systematic drop in the sale of apartments and a large amount of unsold apartments. We have seen here that more than 2135 apartments according to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, it is a large number and I believe that these measures proposed by the Government will make a remarkable contribution primarily to young people and those who do not have any housing to reach their first apartment. This 20-year period starts paying off loans and an interest rate that is more favourable than the interest paid by banks at these times should first be seen positively. This is just another of the anti-recession measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we launched since last year since July and should not be seen in segments part only that wishes to be singled out from this law. This law should be seen in all those measures that we adopted from last year to today and above all should be seen through the fact that it helps not only builders and investors but also citizens, primarily citizens and workers who are employed in this segment because the systemic rate of sales of apartments automatically stops new investments in the building, and there is a risk of halting investment of many jobs. This law will therefore contribute to its intention to preserve jobs in the building, that our families living and workers working in this segment have certain certainty that this year and in the year ahead, as the law is predicted to last until the end of 2011, some stability and security for jobs will be ensured in this large segment of the number of construction workers. At this point, I think we need to support the law that comes at these times of economic crisis, that we need to find positive solutions that are offered here, that we need to tell people who are following us and listening to us that there is a possibility that if they meet those basic conditions for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to meet them, to help them with these favourable loans to reach their first housing square. When it comes to voting on this law, I will support the law and I believe that all MPs and we, ruling and opposition, should support it because it serves our citizens, our workers and all those who have great intention of reaching their housing square, and under the current conditions cannot. I find it positive and I support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50122	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will once again return to this thesis that today the SDP has tried to place as something with which the government is apparently trying to please some construction companies. So there's no saying that this law would in any way try to please any companies isolated from all other companies involved in construction. So this law goes hand in hand to all the builders who have made new apartments and all those who want to buy these same apartments, of course that enter into these criteria that the government has said, and these criteria are primarily priced here and these other preconditions that have already been said about. But all day long today it would not be said that this is a good government move trying to say how in fact the government here is trying to please some companies with construction, namely certain construction companies. And moreover, I would say, he's trying rudely to accuse the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it was clearly aimed at her, as she said here clearly and said, that one of the ministers who is connected to the construction companies actually favors those companies with whom she is connected. So, it's a purely rude insinuation at the expense of a member of the government. And who points to that insinuation? They refer to the same ones during whose power the minister then, Minister Cacic, signed with his companies, his ministry signed contracts with his companies worth several hundred million kunas. So today, the SDP that, together with the HNS, made the backbone of the coalition government in whose time it was happening, is trying to insinuate to us here today that this bargaining is trying to make this government too. Of course, it has nothing to do with the truth and the facts. If they had carefully read the law then they would have seen exactly that neither companies nor cities, nor any place in the Republic of Croatia, nor any company from which it is necessary or from which an apartment can be purchased under these conditions which the Government has stated in the law itself. So, simply one rough insinuation in order to downplay the government's attempt to help citizens of the Republic of Croatia who want to get cheaper funds to the first apartment or to the larger apartment and on the other hand is suitable for employees of construction companies who will naturally get that money to be able to invest further in their jobs, so that they can move on to a new job and of course get paid for the job. We say that, of course, construction works in Croatia for about 150,000 employees, but of course we do not say that they will all benefit from that, of course. First of all, it will be the citizens who will decide which apartments they will buy, which locations and at what price. And of course, the biggest incentive is where the lowest prices of apartments are. That's very important. So, prices up to 1,000 euros per metre square. The most participatory is that 30% price, with 300 euros per metre of square. Calculate, one average apartment of 70 square meters, 300 euros per metre of square loan of this very favourable one is 21,000 euros. In the end, what you could see from the explanation, this way you're going to get apartments that are actually going to be more suitable for 47% than today's situation. Is that not a great help to our fellow citizens? Isn't that helping the builders to keep doing their job at the same time? We are saying that the crisis, that we should help, and now that we have a concrete measure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then you are trying to demean that measure, you are trying to say how it pleases someone with this measure. Well, that's not true! I expected that even after this explanation was given by the minister herself that someone on behalf of the SDP club would, of course, not expect Mr. Stazic to apologize to anyone, and that is not expected. But I expected someone from the SDP to say we're sorry, we spoke wrong all day. Because the apartments in question in this area only refer to those apartments that fit the criteria that the ministry listed, which is primarily the price. So anyone who wants in Croatia anywhere, at any location if they find such an apartment that is a new apartment, which corresponds with the price to which it is stated in this bill, can apply for the apartment, or can receive a loan that is under favourable conditions. And to point out once again with a possible 20-year start for that amount of loans the state is giving. So it's extremely, extremely favourable, and we all know today what the conditions are for getting credit and how credit can be obtained. So, this is an extremely good opportunity and I still want the team, no colleagues here, but I want to support his amendment, which speaks of interest on the payment of the value added tax. It will also facilitate the whole thing, in fact, reduce the obligations of those citizens who are in debt under this law. So, I'm reminding you one more time. Absolutely many will profit from this law, but that is the wish of this government. Many will profit. Of course, above all, citizens who will come up with the right means to buy a new apartment or apartment bigger than they have today will benefit from construction operations, all those who today cannot sell their own, their own apartments. They're going to profit because they're going to sell those apartments. Of course, they must be at this price. This price is again favourable and it is stimulating for those who may be located somewhere near that price to lower the price in order of course to sell these apartments because these are very favourable prices. So, it's extremely important and of course, it's going to profit quite safely from this part of the banking sector, and he's here I'd say a side compared to what citizens will get as a possibility and construction companies. Therefore, it does not really need to be done in such a way that we receive from the SDP order the demeaning of such a good proposal, one of the measures, the anti-recession measures that this government is offering to help both the economy and the citizens in this situation. And we can talk about the situation in which we are, compare Croatia with the members of the European Union, so let's, let's open that topic, and let's say that the Croatian deficit is significantly less than the deficits of the European Union countries and that of those founders of the European Union. I'm not saying we're not comparing ourselves to this last wave of enlargement with the Baltic countries, with Hungary, etc. but I am talking about the founders of the European Union. Let's take a look at one of the Great Britains. Do you know what the deficit in Great Britain was planned this year? 12.1% of Britain. So what are we talking about? We're in the master's criteria, in the euro zone criteria, so below 3%. So let's go to 4% with the deficit, so we're three times less deficits in the Republic of Croatia than in England. Shall we talk about unemployment, about the percentage of unemployment? Take Spain 20% of the unemployed. What is there? Is Croatia also to blame for the situation in Spain? Is Croatia to blame for the situation in Hungary? Is Croatia to blame for the deficit in Slovenia? The deficit in Slovenia is almost 8%, 7.8%. Yeah, it's not a theme. It is not a theme when compared to the situation in Croatia, then it is not a topic, when compared with those considered much better than us, those who had a much better situation because they had no war, had no porn, had no renewal, had no casualties in the Homeland War, did not feel the consequences of any war. When it is seen that we are actually much better standing than many countries in the European Union, then what can we attribute it to? We can attribute good moves to the government or government, if you want the government that led in the past periods to the Republic of Croatia because we are in a much better situation. Germany only gave its banks from the state budget at one point in a few months from the start of the crisis from the end of 2008 to spring 2009 300 billion euros from the budget, of course, to the burden of its budget deficits. It is a strong economy, one of the strongest exporters in the world. Today, China may be the only one, because of the circumstances in which it is and because of the fact that it has a billion and a half inhabitants, and because of the rapid development it is experiencing has recently passed Germany in export. But when we talk about real indicators, then I'm talking about what's true. Let us not speak in Croatia is all as black as today is our colleague who has left the assembly that speaks only to be seen in a narrow transmission. My colleague Cain says nothing is sold, nothing is bought. Let's not talk like that. We're talking about concrete data. Let's just say the exact facts and say that we stand significantly better than many European countries And let's just say that we are, it's not all great. [[Intruder Antičević: Everything is wonderful!]] Of course it's not all wonderful everything can be better, but don't say we're the worst in the world, because we're not. Don't tarnish your own country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50124	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, you're not going to accept what you're told from the pay phone by your co-worker, and what's in the law. The government first found out about the apartments. She got that information from the Chamber of Commerce and so it's not true that the government has sent a message through the criteria to buy which one you want an apartment. That's not true. If the government wanted to do what you say, then it would have done in law criteria and sent a message through the law to builders, the criteria for subsidising the price or lending are these gentlemen apartment manufacturers, builders, investors, these are the conditions for you to adapt to. No, the government has received data on 2,000 300 apartments, and depending on its needs, money or I don't know what the law has adapted to. Thus, the circumstances of the government are well - known.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50126	Replica, Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50127	So I'd like to warn you of actually one fact that seems to me to be elementary, and that's a lot to come from. No matter what sounds quite general, but human culture is built in language, the language is built on the ratio of the marker and the marked, so words and things and the moment that relationship starts to crack, that moment actually the entire possibility of communication of agreement and civilization falls. I'd like to take this law, this text of law seriously. If we take it seriously, then I have to say another footnote. The relationship between words and things the child masteres somewhere in the second year of its development. If we take the text seriously, then the law says it's a law to sell apartments, to encourage the sale of apartments, not to encourage the purchase of apartments. And if we take the law seriously and condescendingly, then the investor, the seller, and so the one who has something and wants to sell it is in the first place. We have a customer, user and colleague Matušić in the first place and then there is a difference in perspective in both the whole series and assumptions and the sequences. So do not take it personally, neither as a demeanor, nor as a humiliation, but simply as an attempt to deal with certain dilemmas or at least to point out them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50128	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't think so, especially not... Indignity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm glad you understood that way. But speaking of what's in your focus. When you say it's about the law that's talking about selling apartments. So who can be sold the apartment than the one who wants to buy it? Who else but someone who wants to buy it? But it is the government's intensity to help the economy. In this case, construction companies. We want to help the economy. This is one of the measures to help the economy to avoid a new wave of unemployed, because this sector, the sector of construction in difficulty, we have the biggest problems in the sector, etc. And we know what happens, we know what happens when that part of construction, when it dies, and when it stops. It is an engine for further development and further new jobs, etc. So, if I understood you correctly, I hope I did, you said it was the customer who was in your focus, but to us at the same time the one who sells and the buyer, of course, is in focus at the same time. We could have called this law a proposal to buy new apartments, but it is a purely formality, because we, we can simply agree here that it is a clean formality because it is equally convenient for citizens who buy and those who sell. And in order for these to sell it, we encourage citizens to come to a more favourable resource than they can otherwise come to the money market. And that's a fact. The fact that here today with this loan can come up with very, very favourable funds that can't be found on the money market. If that's not a customer favor, then I don't know who's guessing. And of course that's it, I mean it's a logical thing. My colleague Flego, I think in the end here, that we in that part are not different at all, but you just have to understand that this law applies equally to those who buy the apartment and those who sell it. Here's what's important.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50130	And Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50131	Here I'm going to use my colleague Matusic's replica to actually try it one more time, now I guess at the end of the debate all day. I've really been here all day. I'm sorry, I went out for a while, I didn't listen to all of you. But because I'd really like the minister to be very clear right now, and I'm asking her to respond again. In fact, I even asked that question yesterday on the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, and it seems to me that I have just received an answer as I understand it. It says here, so the government has to get information from somewhere. She received data from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that it is 2 thousand 315 unsold apartments. I have prayed to say in which places it is, I suppose you know exactly how many apartments there are in Rijeka, Zagreb, Čakovec, Rovinj or I don't know where, so in all those places you've listed. So 2 thousand 315 apartments and that this law applies to them, how many of us actually have newly built and unsold apartments in Croatia? That's what I'm interested in right now. And I'm asking now, since in my debate today, I mentioned this one number of over 6 thousand still unfinished new apartments, and they won't be able to enter into sales under this law. Why? I think I'm a good interpreter. Article 8 says the law is only approved for the purchase of a new apartment in a building... for use issued until the date of entry into force of this Act, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in an explanation, it means that... for use means a valid permit, a final report by a supervisory engineer, or a conviction for use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I think we should clarify that by my interpretation and understanding of this law, as I understood all the discussions that were today, this law refers to exactly 2 thousand 315 apartments in, now I'm going to say by heart 50 places in Croatia and it's about 50 companies. There you go. Well, look, Minister, it doesn't matter, but this makes me look like it does. And so all day, we've been talking about it all day, and no one's denied it. And then I ask if it means that those who live, I don't know, in two months should be built they won't enter this law. Then who's gonna buy these apartments? And that's how we're gonna spin around in circles.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50132	Okay, now we'll hear more about it. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50133	I'll just answer briefly because Madam Minister will give an even more concrete clarification. But in the assessment of the state of the ministry, as you could hear, it was estimated from the Chamber of Commerce that it was 2315 apartments. And that doesn't mean that it's just the 2315 because all those who fit those conditions that the ministry has set, so first of all, the price and the fact that they're new apartments, etc., these apartments enter this model. So, those apartments are coming in. And we don't have that information. The Minister just said they don't know. We don't have specific information whether it's the total number of these apartments that match these criteria, but in any case it's the data that was obtained from the Chamber of Commerce as something we called the state assessment at the beginning of this. But the law didn't predict anywhere that it had to be that 2315 at those locations. So it can be anywhere in Croatia if it fits the criteria we're talking about. About the price, we're talking about licenses and everything that's written. And this part that goes further will be said by the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50134	Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50135	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and Mr. Vice President. I think I speak loud and clear. No one's ever told me they don't know if I say anything before. I said nice, these apartments, so we asked the Chamber of Commerce to do a survey because everyone's talking apartments has so many or so. We didn't know who they'd ask. It's logical and normal to ask the Chamber of Commerce. We asked them, they gave it to us, and they said with today's day they applied to us after we conducted the survey so much and so much, 2315, in those places with that number of apartments. Total, 2315. Afterwards, we did this bill because we said and the Prime Minister announced that some things would be done, when we adopted those measures, the A programme, the B programme, and we still need to bring in the C programme, that continued measures would be taken for certain activities. So she mentioned and said to the builders, so she mentioned and said to the textiles, etc. Afterwards, we made a bill that says that this part includes unsold apartments that have been completed and have a valid permit until the day of adoption of this law. If you pass the law tomorrow, then until tomorrow. So this list is exclusively information that it has. Because let's say we have to buy these apartments, or that we'll only give incentives for those apartments, then we should have written it in the law. You know that well. You can't give someone notice from the Chamber of Commerce or the reasoning of the law, so you have to act by it, so it's unimaginable. Therefore, we thought of those 2315 apartments that only they could be bought we should have taxed them in law. Since the law says that all newly built apartments, it says in the law, newly built apartments that will have a valid license until the day of law-making and which fit the criteria to cost between 1000 and 1600 euros per metre square metre. So, I get myself an xy company that does the work, which made that house, which has free apartments and makes a pre-contract with them if I'm okay with it. We in APN, APN doesn't even have this list that we have here because there was no reason for us to give them that list... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's no reason. Because people and myself, I've said it since the first day, from the first minute today and on all the committees yesterday the important difference between POS and this is that you're the man who chooses the apartment where he wants, the size he wants, because we didn't limit any of those things. And as far as POS is concerned, you know exactly at the location of that and that, according to the rule that was passed for those POS apartments, you can buy such a large apartment according to the number of family members. We said no here. You have the location, you have the size of the apartment, you have the bank. The only thing that matters is that he's been given a valid permit until the day of the law and that he fits into these criteria regarding the amount. And that's the end of it. And I repeat that once more. And please, I'm saying clear. This list doesn't have anything to do with it. After all, we're just silly to even write it in the explanation, or at the beginning. But the assessment of the situation is every law has an assessment of the state. It's a state-of-the-art assessment of what's going on. And we wrote what the Chamber of Commerce told us. We could have written anything else you wanted. And we didn't write anywhere, in any article of the law that these apartments, those 2315 have to be bought. We also wrote to you that we have 100 million kunas and that this year we predict a thousand apartments. So what does that mean now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50136	Thank you. Correction, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50137	Madam Minister, you said you could choose a oxy firm, or a oxy apartment from a oxy company. However, you say before that it must be a licensed firm. ... But Madam Minister, how many such licensed companies are there? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why isn't that hitting big firms again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50138	In Croatia 6 thousand licensed companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50139	I was called by people who owned smaller companies and said it was a basic problem because they were not protected. This is still a bargain for big firms.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50140	Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister. Here's after this whole day's debate I'll try to be brief. I think the law is clear enough and quality enough to be accepted by an emergency procedure. I will list three reasons that are very important to accept this law. First, this law targets a group of customers, which are customers who do not have an apartment or who will expand their existing apartment. And it is clear that these are the people who have just begun their working life as we have heard from colleagues here and that they are very welcome in this and such help. So it's in the first row because of them and it's very positive and commendable. Secondly, what's almost here is said to be helpful for the builders and the construction operation. I don't see in it absolutely anything bad, because construction is a significant branch economy. Given that he is now in no position but in a strong fall, it is very important that our government takes measures to improve the situation in construction. Because people just can't and don't know how to move on. It is illusory to expect new apartments to be made if there are so many unsold apartments. And now you're not going to destroy all those operations that exist, so some other operatives are going to be created overnight. It's practically impossible and it's groundless especially in such a way of speaking. The third thing I'd like to mention is that there are a lot of those colleagues here who ran or run cities and municipalities, they know very well what happens when they submerge incomes from municipal contributions. That's exactly what happened last year, and we can see in this one that it's not going to be better than maybe even worse. And many of the things you planned that the city serviced and the municipalities are at stake. This way the sale of these apartments will open up the possibility of a new construction and will help the normal functioning of cities and municipalities in such a way. I mean, that's three reasons that are enough to accept this law without having any dilemma at all. And I think Mrs. Secretary explained all these misunderstandings so well, if they are truly inconceivable or something else. So after this, I don't think there's any need for any further clarifications at all. But I can say that I am very pleased with the proposed law and that I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50142	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Looking at and looking at the aspect of material needs there is no greater pleasure for a man than moving into his own apartment for the first time. To feel the warmth of your own home is a special feeling. That is why the famous Maslov, in his hierarchy, puts the need for home warmth in the most basic place as a basic human need. I'm not prone to realising or showing up or suggesting, and even less to scolding, because every phenomenon has both positive and negative sides. But one reasoned criticism is always a desirable phenomenon. It should be borne in mind that this law corresponds to the moment of today's but also the possibilities of the state. What I must stress is that I would not dare to accurately assess the effects of the application of this law because it is truly impossible to assess them, but it can be said with certainty that by applying this law, it will not negatively affect or harm anyone, and it can be beneficial for many and generally beneficial. I would therefore not assess because the impact is influenced by a large number of factors in order to achieve the expected application of this bill. And among many factors, the most important factor is waste to banks, how they will behave in the application of this law. It should be pointed out that this is a chance for banks. This is an exceptional opportunity for banks to place extra liquid assets if they have largely high risk-free rates and if they are at favourable interest, they can place those surplus funds because they currently have only at the expense of citizens 11.8 billion kuna, and saving companies 27.9 billion kuna, and it is simply an opportunity to place those funds which are both free and do not use maximumising their interest rate. What is important to stress is that in no case would it be good for banks to charge special fees in this case, special fees and thereby collect and lead to an increase in effective interest rates. It would not be good to hire court experts to assess these properties, because any assessment goes, but banks can ask for it, so I say it would not be good to ask, because it is a common procedure when granting housing loans, that there is no need for this to increase the cost of credit users, because there is no need for an assessment, because this really suits market conditions. If ever the price corresponds to the market then it is today a real market price. It would also not be good for banks to demand that housing users provide these apartments with flood insurance companies, fires, burglaries, etc. in the case of insurance companies which they recommend and condition. It's a practice but in this case you wouldn't be welcome at all. And it would be good for interest rates to be fixed or to be tied to Eurolibor without being variable and that they can unilaterally change according to the production will of banks. Because this is certainly the situation that will drive potential users of credit and purchasers of apartments. Also, this is an opportunity for banks to place their liquid assets in the long term and to have a secure placement in the long term but it would not be good if the approval of new loans at a favourable interest rate for those who already have housing loans earlier to raise interest rates because they are allowed by existing contracts, although it is not all so that I said it was not good and it is what I said it would be good then it will be a great effect of such measures. And I'd be personally happy if only one man didn't lose his job and let only one young man buy an apartment I'm already satisfied with the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50144	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50145	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today, much has been said and I believe that we are all already tired of believing and what we have understood and who we want to understand about what I am doing here I am using the opportunity to congratulate the minister and the ministry on a specific proposal and help young families solve what counterpart Maric said that you have made it possible for a good part of the young family to experience entering their own home. I think it's least important how many companies are going to sell apartments this way. I think it's least important whether it's called encouraging the sale of apartments or encouraging the purchase of apartments. The most important thing is that today a young man, a young family, has the opportunity to postpone up to a maximum of 20 years of paying an apartment to buy an apartment with a interest of 2%. We know those who used entrepreneurship loans so they get a delay in the repayment of loans we know what is the possibility and what is the ease of the environment. I'm going to mention what's going on here today, and it wasn't that much of a talk. It is about where I come from, these are areas that have been affected by the war, which have been evicted and where the Republic of Croatia has invested considerable resources through the resolution ministries in rebuilding family homes but when solutions were issued ten, fifteen years ago for rebuilding many today, many were children, today they are people who have children and who will surely see through this way the possibility of resolving the housing issue. Today, in the middle of which I come from where some average price of squares is an apartment of 1,000 to 1,000 euros through this incentive, it is also an opportunity to postpone paying young people to realize this long dream of realising that apartment by buying this apartment and moving into the same place. And what I would just add, I'm not going to repeat what it means for a construction operation, which means for logistics that monitors construction operations through apartment equipment, I'm just going to point out that I believe that the possibility will be considered and that after 2011, it will continue with the incentive to sell or build apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50146	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50147	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say a few examples now, given that one Vukovar has been destroyed, that the minister has been with us since the first days, and I think we can be happy to have such a ministry headed by our minister. I can only say that our government encourages, gives, helps our businesses and the combination of Borovo that was devastated, destroyed by the end of your gentlemen government in 2001, the coalition has been in charge of the severance of the Borovo workers, and has put the Borovo mortgage on all his assets. Our government, this government is currently taking down this and bringing in the company that today a combination that has been destroyed employs, employs a thousand 200 people, regularly receives wages and stands well. It's a recovery and that's how the government should work, you need to learn from this government. Furthermore, there were 5 thousand 900 dwellings considered state-owned in Vukovar. In 91, social property of which 4000 487 dwellings in residential buildings have been renovated so far, most of which total Croatian budgets amount to around 610 million kuna. Now there are 443 more apartments in preparation for renovation. Since September alone last year, 300 apartments in residential buildings have been renovated. It will not be refurbished between 300 and 400 apartments covered by the industrial zone and on the path of the future Danube-Sava channel. Only for housing and reconstruction in the war-damaged, destroyed housing fund in Vukovar has so far been spent on state budget funds slightly over a billion and 726 million kuna. Gentlemen, that's not small, but that's not all. 610 million kuna for renovation of residential buildings with a total of 4000 500 apartments. 21 million for completed supplies of 311 supplies, 104.5 million kuna for purchase of 441 APN houses, 990 million for reconstruction of 4000 900 family houses. For projects to rebuild municipal and social infrastructure in Vukovar-Srijem County, about half of that amount was invested in about 600 million kuna in 2000-2004. Donating state houses and apartments. To date, it has been donated to Croatian defenders and members of the dead and missing Croatian defenders in Vukovar 314 state dwellings and houses, 194 apartments and 120 APN houses and under favourable conditions about 250 apartments have been sold. The price of a newly renovated 60m-square apartment in Vukovar, subject to a one-time payment, is 10.5 thousand euros. I don't think you can buy half a flat anywhere, not an entire apartment. And they're renovated apartments. 175 euros per metre of square is one meter square. The amount of the sale of apartments goes entirely to the city of Vukovar, about 12 million in 2008 and 2009 the city of Vukovar had that part of it. Last year alone, some 127 million were spent on the reconstruction programmes of the housing fund and the City of Vukovar's Reconstruction and Development Fund despite a recession that does not include other programmes for the renovation and construction of infrastructure facilities and networks. I must say, it's not just about the government and the family ministry that received 465 requests from the werewolves. 298 requests have been resolved, with 101 apartments and 197 loans. The remaining pending requests are only 167 requests. In the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, 1673 requests were submitted to the Ministry of Defence, of which 993 applications were resolved and 680 applications were outstanding. This exposure shows how much the government invests in housing, and I specifically prepared this for all those who say that the government forgot Vukovar. Up until now, nearly 2 billion kunas have invested in Vukovar have denied the unfaithful Tom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50148	Final review, Minister Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, I think here we have proposed to you one law in a series of measures that have been adopted and yet to be passed. Of course, what we said can be employed by one part of the builders, with investments you can hire another part of the builders because I'm pretty sure that's going to get better and better. And to those who think and do not believe that this law will be fulfilled, remember the law that we passed seven months ago, the Law on the issue of building permits within 45 days. A large part of you didn't believe anything would come true. I'm just saying, that's how 138 building permits were issued within 45 days. So, believe me, we're not doing things by heart, we're doing a serious job, and we're sure it's going to go the way it's supposed to be. That means we're gonna do everything we can to get those people who decide to buy apartments like this to buy apartments as soon as possible and to get rid of all the administrative procedures they need to do as soon as possible. APN started preparing all the materials. Now we're gonna make a public call, so people answer that public call, and then we're gonna know what we did. You'll see how much he'll answer. You laughed and then when it was the 45-day bill, so we betrayed it, it did. And you didn't want to talk about it at all, you said no one would do it. We've issued 138 permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50150	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a discussion of the Proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Space Plan of Nature Park Lonjsko polje and about 12 hours of voting on discussed points.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50151	Fifthly, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Encouragement of Apartment Sales was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 517. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is the conclusion. The revision review is divided into benches. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Minister Marina Matulović Dropulic. Here you go. First, an indication of the amendment of the Legislative Committee in Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50152	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50153	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Second, the Legislative Committee on Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50154	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50155	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Third, the Legislative Committee on Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50156	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50157	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Fourth, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government in Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50158	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50159	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Fifth, Legislative Committee on Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50160	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50161	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Sixth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50162	We don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50163	Mršić's representative on Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50164	We do not accept it, because it is unnecessary because we already have in the law that all those who have and licenses must also pay their obligations to workers, unless their licenses are taken away. And in addition to that, the A-B-Government program that you adopted precisely those words determines who has the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50165	Representative Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. So we'll vote. Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Seven, Legislative Committee on Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50166	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50167	It becomes an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50168	And we accept everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50169	And all the other boards mean it. All other amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50170	All the way down to 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50171	Legislative Committee and the 12th Amendment of Branko Bačić to Article 18
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50172	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-18-0.u50173	So all other amendments have been accepted from the meaning of Amendment 8 to the conclusion of the 14th. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal of the House of Encouragement Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 69 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 29 against, together with the amendments adopted. Good morning, Madam Representatives and MPs! We're going to continue the session and we're going to move on to six today. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of a spatial nature park Lonjsko polje Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. The Joint Amendments were submitted by the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction Ms. Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go.
