ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45895	Honorable MPs and MPs. In December of the last year, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in Operation Atalanta, which lists up to five members of our Armed Forces in 2010 with the possibility of rotation. Participation in the European Union military operation "Atalanta" the Republic of Croatia confirms its strategic objective, which is a membership of the European Union and thus contributes to the European Union's ability to manage crises. The Republic of Croatia also demonstrates its readiness to contribute actively to one of the long-term objectives of the European Common Foreign Security Policy, which is to support peace and security in the area of Africa. Taking into account the type and scope of the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in Operation Atalanta, there was a need for further detailed regulation of the legal position, as well as the rights and obligations of our Armed Forces, by concluding a bilateral international contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. The Agreement provides for issues related to Croatia's participation in Operation "Atalanta" and the smooth implementation of the tasks of our members of our Armed Forces as part of this operation, such as the legal position of the forces, the conditions of transfer of arrested and detained persons to the purpose of their prosecution, the protection of classified data, command and financial aspects of participation. Participation in international peace operations is in line with the strategic commitment of the Republic of Croatia, and thus our country is classified as responsible members of the international community who are willing to take over their part of the general security. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts in which the state and formally express its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, as well as the fact that changes or additions to the text of the international contract are generally not possible at this stage of the procedure, the proposal for a law is proposed to be discussed before this House and accepted by the urgent procedure by uniting first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45896	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45897	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary, colleagues from the Department of Defense, fellow MPs. All a few words on this Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union in the participation of our forces in the already known Operation Atalanta. We have already debated here and we have agreed, the consent that several of our officers may participate in this important operation, we have heard from the Secretary of Defense, and we have heard before the reasons that motivated us to make a decision to involve our officers, primarily Navy officers in Operation Atalanta along the coast, or the sea of Somalia. In order to successfully be a military operation, it is primarily necessary to give a precise political framework, we have it, we have heard that this framework, the International Community, is primarily the European Union with the NATO forces also made a political decision and a framework to prevent robbery, along the coast of Somalia, the abduction of ships, the abduction of people and all that goes with such activities. The political framework we have received, the military in order to have a clear goal it must have meant this political framework, they have made their military goals and have their clear tasks, and on the other hand in this agreement it is clearly and correctly done and we are going to say all together just to support it. In order for the operation itself to be successful to do a few things, first there is a legal framework for action that we have received, we have it here, I don't think in this context we need anything special, we have in Croatian and English, it's a hamlet we can now discuss specifically on the 7th article whether it is the most suitable for our forces for the Republic of Croatia but I think that the framework is solid and that we have nothing special to add. The other thing, it's very important, it's the preparation and education of officers. The preparation is done regardless of whether an individual or a larger group is going, it must be done on the ground itself, made in the home country at the base, these are a few officers, experienced officers who have already absorbed it and they are ready and they can do very much, in the promotion of the Croatian Army, the Republic of Croatia on these tasks they have received. It is also necessary to educate the officers themselves, to prepare the country they are going to..., in which they are going, I think that it is already a stalking of the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff and that these people, from this position, especially because this is not in this sense a dangerous, difficult task as the engagement of our forces in Afghanistan, that we will ultimately be very satisfied with the results obtained below, and that it will be important for us and for the officers who are down there to gain experience in work, for example on a warship that may be completely different from our ships, in the very command that go, will see how planning, way of life and working in such environments. The third and perhaps most important thing is logistics support, says, as it is a few officers, I think it will be much easier to maintain, we have been much easier prepared for the task itself. And e.g. Unlike Afghanistan, where we had worse problems. We have seen it last time up precisely with logistics support and that it is of course very important and important and in this context also performs and realizes it and we do not need to expect certain problems in the realisation of the task itself. I won't say much to waste words. The SDP club will support the involvement of our officers in this operation. And what I want to say in the end, that I wish these people success, happiness and, of course, the good sea below and a happy return home to Croatia after the completion of the mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45898	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45899	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Here are a few words on the proposal for this law which requires the Croatian Parliament to confirm an agreement signed between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union military operation aimed at deterring, preventing and preventing acts of piracy and armed robbery along the coast of Somalia. Certainly, the HDZ club will support the bill. But I also think it may be necessary to say something more when our people are going into these peace operations, regardless of whether they are UN, European Union or NATO operations. The support of the Croatian public will indeed depend on the extent to which the Croatian public fully understands the problems that the international community faces and why the entire international community participates in such peace operations. And for that I might say a few words about this broader context even in this particular case. We thought that robbery, robbery, sea raids were part of our past. But that's no longer true. It's part of our reality, perhaps brutal, cruel, more brutal than it used to be. Modern equipment, modern materials, weapons technologies, gangs, terrorists, indeed, through these operations endanger the interests of the international community in a broader context. It's not just a security issue, I'd say maybe it's the least security issue, it's also a political issue, but certainly what's not pointed out is an economic issue. It's both an economic issue and an economic problem. We are aware that 20 thousand ships of large ships passing through the Gulf of Aden, with all those loads of oil, gas, etc. are part of international world trade. Such armed robberies definitely endanger the world's economic order. I'll just say a few numbers. The insurance of tankers passing through this area following frequent raids has increased dramatically and amounts to more than 500 thousand dollars per ship. All of this certainly has no small impact on the price of oil, on security and indirectly all of this has an impact on the global world economy, on the situation on the stock exchanges. So we must be aware that these disturbances that occur there somewhere along the coast of Somalia are in some way affecting our economic security. And that is why it is very important to know and understand this broader context when the Croatian Parliament makes decisions, and the Croatian public observes all this and wonders what our interest is. There is a very big and significant interest, because the global economy we often say crisis in Croatia is part of and reflection of what is happening in the world. And this case needs to be taken care of. And therefore, the United Nations and the Security Council are through a series of resolutions, Resolution 18/14, 18/16, etc. support the activities of both the UN and NATO and other international organisations in order to establish the security needed to ensure that the normal global economic system can function. This is in this particular case part of the European security and defence policy, which will soon become part of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, too, we should look to these decisions that we make in the Croatian Parliament. In the explanation of the day is one general context and I think it is also necessary to highlight it. By participating in such peace operations that are in line with the strategic definition of the Republic of Croatia, our country. The Republic of Croatia is among the responsible members of the international community who are ready to take over their part of the burden of general security. In such discussions in the Croatian Parliament, the facts need to be pointed out. Why? Support for the Croatian public cannot be automation. We should send soldiers to Afghanistan. Why? There is also a broader context and the indirect interest of the Republic of Croatia to do so, I will not now talk about drug proliferation and some other effects. The Republic of Croatia is being profiled as a reliable partner to the international community with everything it does in its foreign policy. It thus strengthens its political and military credibility, as not only the NATO member states, but also the European Union very soon. All this contributes to the acquisition of experiences, especially as previously said, these experiences are important in the field of planning, implementation, joint operations of multinational forces. This cannot be learned in the Republic of Croatia, it can only be learned by participating in such international operations. And they're important from that point of view, because our officers and our soldiers, the officers who participate in such peace operations, strengthen their international profile, communicate more easily, create friendships. And this link between the Republic of Croatia and the international community is much stronger through this form of international operations, the military in which more than 400 of our members are presently participating. The Croatian Parliament, as it writes here, made a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia on 3 April 2009 according to which Operation Atalanta referred to up to 5 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the possibility of rotation. The Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union military operation was signed in Brussels on 27 July last year and signed by the Extraordinary Envoy of the Republic of Croatia Mr Baricevic as Head of Mission of the Republic of Croatia to the European Community. These are important facts to be pointed out before the vote itself. This hour, our three officers are in that space. One member of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is on a French warship, one is on a Belgian warship and the third is in command. at the operational center of the U.K. Operation Command. As is said here in this agreement, very pragmatic issues related to the way in which we participate in the operation are regulated, define the legal position of the forces or our officers, define procedures relating to the availability of classified data, the command system as well as financial aspects. From this point on, the HDZ Club will support the validation of this agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of our officers in this important operation, which is part of the European defence and security policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45900	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45901	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. ... He's gone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ours. On page 1, it is said that participation in international peace operations is in line with the strategic definitions of the Republic of Croatia, which places our country among the responsible members of the international community who are ready to take over their part of the burden of general security. It is said that the Republic of Croatia currently has a total of 424 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia engaged in peacekeeping missions and the number is moving within the limits of the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia from 2006 to 2015. I don't think for any of us here in this house, let's say it can't be disputed, it can't even be a questionable part of our participation in peace missions. It would be controversial to cut some corridors, but let's just let it go now, I won't paralyze it with that. So it can't be controversial. Why? Because Croatia has received military assistance in its own time, and I think it is also mandatory to return military assistance to other countries. According to some lay-down calculations of these 424 soldiers outside the Republic of Croatia at annual level or state budget, taxpayers' taxes cost about 400 million kuna. This must be the gentlemen 1/10 of the military budget. We can express that 400 million kuna equivalent to 55 million euros or 80 million US dollars. So, at the moment when it comes to participation in such missions, Croatia is absolutely giving its maximum. And in this military mission means ATALANTA Croatia or in Croatia is present today with its three soldiers or with three citizens or three officers. What worries me is our engagement in Afghanistan. If it were up to me, all 300 soldiers would be going home right now because my opinion is that the mission in Afghanistan is a lost mission, that we will go there as Russians after the intervention when it was 78th, not us, but NATO. But let me go back to this Somalia now. On the 6th page of this Treaty or a better said agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, I quote that the Council of the European Union has adopted a joint action on the European Union military operation to contribute, deter, prevent and prevent part of piracy and armed robbery along the coast of Somalia has been called Operation ATALANTA. On page 7, I quote that the Republic of Croatia is joining a joint action in the European Union military operation to contribute to the deterrence, prevention of the prevention of part of piracy and armed robbery along the coast of Somalia and any joint action or decision decided by the Council of the European Union to extend the EU military crisis management operation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and any necessary implementing arrangements. And on page 9, when we talk about commanding Article 5, then it is stated that all forces, personnel participating in the European Union military crisis management operation, remain under the full command of their national authorities, which is absolutely good. So, all these provisions that I'm not trying to convince or quote right now can't be questionable for anyone. But what I personally cannot understand is how the world, that the United States, that the European Union, NATO, France, don't know who can't control everything in that part of the world and not on land, would even understand it but at sea. I simply cannot understand that with all these great fleets present there is an American fleet hanging from Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, the English fleet, the French fleet. It means that with all these possible salite, warships, the aviation that the world there has concentrated, along with all these American bases in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, etc. So it's possible that it's not possible to control I don't know the passage of ships along with this African horn that goes further towards Suez, towards Europe and so on. I just don't understand it, and then it happens to us, like, hijacking a ship of about 300 meters normally loaded with oil. A little while ago, my predecessor outside the HDZ Club said that some 20,000 different ships were passing in that part of the sea annually. If we divide it by 365, it means somewhere around 54 ships a day. It's impossible to control it in some way, it doesn't make sense. Ships all sail certain strictly fixed routes, all announced, sailing at a certain time. Every pass I said is announced, we want to conquer one Afghanistan and in 2010 we can't end the pirates with Somalia who, imagine, in some coves can keep anchored by 15, 20, 30 ships as if they were the big, Samsung or Hyundai shipyard in South Korea. So how come you just can't see it from the air via satellite, google, or I don't know who? Either someone consciously wants to play with the price of oil or they want to play with the price hike by ensuring, these benefits for insurance companies by letting pirates do what they do. But it doesn't matter, let the other bodies deal with it. We will also, like my predecessors, vote in the IDS club for this mission, but we should really be able to explain how it's possible that in some cove stands parked or anchored, however, 20, 30 ships and that nothing happens. How it is possible to hijack a ship in the presence of such concentration of the army, watch and so on. However, either way, IDS will absolutely support this agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of our soldiers or officers, however, in this mission of Atalanta headed along that coast of Somalia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45902	Thank you. It's the HSS club, Mr. Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45903	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Defence, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of our debate, we would like to say that the Croatian Peasant Party club supports the relevant text of the law, namely this agreement, because the Republic of Croatia is its foreign and security policy, including military operation along the coast of Somalia, called Atalanta, harmonizes with the views and actions of the European Union. Also, participation in that military operation since the spring of this year is undoubtedly a confirmation of the maturity of the countries sending them, as well as the development and capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participating in them. At the same time, by confirming this agreement, and thus new tasks are significantly strengthened by the political and military credibility of the Republic of Croatia in the international environment. In this way, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia acquire new important experiences from the area of implementation of common objectives in the operations of multinational forces. We hope that the Government and its bodies will carry out all the necessary activities and tasks from the agreement with international partners in time for the effective implementation of the obligations expected from the Republic of Croatia. We also welcome once again the government's efforts presented by the defence ministry's representatives who, on the basis of lessons learned so far, want to make a turn about reducing the number of peace operations in terms of rounding forces with the aim of facilitating service or service and increasing the security of our members participating in a number of other operations. With this participation, we are profiled as a reliable partner who knows how to meet different challenges, and these actions strengthen the military credibility of the Republic of Croatia and of the Member States of the European Union. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia test their ability to conduct remote logistics and demanding operations with this participation. By participating in Operation Atalanta, we are once again proving our readiness and actively contributing to the long-term objectives of the European Union's common foreign and security policy. At the end of our debate, we would just like to commend and welcome all members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police and civilian personnel involved in peace operations around the world on activities that achieve peace conservation and provide other humanitarian assistance. The Croatian Peasant Party club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45904	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Mr. Representative. You can also sit down to make it a little easier for you because of your...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45905	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your insight, but I don't mind standing there, so I will, but I'm grateful that you've allowed me to speak from here, not at the pay phone. Last year, we had a debate about Operation Atalanta, not Atlanta, as many say, and this is about the European Union mission, which according to this written text is about contributing to the deterrence, prevention and prevention of the works, only parts of piracy and armed robbery along the coast of Somalia. So Operation Atalanta, so with that African horn on the eastern coast of the continent, the black continent of Africa. And then in the debate, so in the past year as it is now, the HDSSB club was unsustainable but clearly against the participation of Croatian soldiers in the operation. The reasons why it was, I will repeat them today, is that it is a European Union mission. We are in, let's say, pre-accession negotiations with the European Union. Ships that sail, as counterpart Cain said, along the east coast of Africa are not matchboxes, ships that are about 50 a day, and then when we multiply by 365 days is a very impressive number. We remember convoys in the Atlantic during World War II when ships were protected from trade with a military component and were transported neatly and properly from the free United States of America, a war unaffected, to Europe. That is why it is strange today to say to our country, our country, that in some ways the Republic of Croatia is expected to have one military aid in the people for such high forces of war which are certainly concerned with the transport and fuel and all other materials from the east towards the Suez Canal and the Mediterranean and further towards Western and northern Europe. Since we are with the European Union and we are constantly showing good will and good intentions and good faith about Croatia's accession to the European Union over and over again, these last days we have a problem that is constantly linked to certain chapters and Croatia is not a member of the European Union, and here I am not going to say that it has to be with horned bosts. But here, Croatia is how I see from most of these debates by clubs it agrees neatly to send its soldiers into one mission that is at least said by strange intentions. It's just actually prevention, deterrence as it says in the text of this bill. So, deterring piracy and armed robbery. Today at a time of sophisticated technology, at a time of so-called satellite era, etc. It can't be hidden, 5, 10, 15 ships like it's a matchbox, so I don't see them. And it's really not clear how it's even possible to take a ship from the Indian Ocean to some hidden bay, harbor or harbor, and then to blackmail the owners or the states of which they are, where the ships are registered. If this is actually about a certain range, is it about games related to the price of oil on the world market or something else. It is also that we are not a member of the European Union and we do not know when we will be that we are not fooling ourselves here, we know that we have had promises of various kinds. 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 etc. And here we are somehow condescending and doing what is asked of us neatly, and here we send soldiers to an uncertain mission in the Indian Ocean, our officers. I know that our army is ready, and I know that our army has experience, and I know that it's appreciated in all the world's military, the world's military analysts, so I know that it's fully prepared. But given these facts that I have presented and that we are constantly here somewhere near the European Union, and in no way is the question of whether other countries so-called. The Western Balkans, and we see a lot of things happening in European and world politics. The HDSSB Club will not support this proposal for an agreement of Croatia or... Agreements between Croatia and the European Union on the sending of Croatian soldiers to the mission "Atalanta" near the Somali coast or the Horn of Africa however you wish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45906	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Before that, Mr. Marin Jurjevic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45907	Thank you. I'd just like to correct my colleague Grubisic. He said it was a mission of strange intent. It's not a mission of strange intent. That's one pretty big problem. Last year, at a meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the piracy was one of the main topics. It's not about these calculations that are mentioned here. It's really not easy to solve, it's not that simple. It's about small fast ships, it's about a messy situation in Somalia in those countries, and that's the problem. Otherwise, these pirates who are living poor people who sometimes even better catch them live better than when they're in those ships. But if we, as Parliament, question, therefore, that this is a strange intention, I think we could come to the wrong conclusions, and some others might come to the wrong conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45908	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Agent Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45909	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Department of Defense, colleagues and colleagues. Just what MP Jurjevic has now stated, I think we should give extra attention to better understand both the motives and contents of this peace operation that we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament. However, I would like to remind you that yesterday we had a debate on the two laws that we have therefore debated, as regards co-operation with our immediate neighbour, Serbia, to improve security opportunities. I think we should also support this bill that will provide a Croatian contribution to the establishment of order in a seemingly remote part of the world. A year ago, the European Union launched an anti-piracy "Atalanta" mission off the coast of Somalia. This peace operation includes the protection of ships as part of the World Food Programme, the protection of commercial vessels flying the coastal area of Somalia, and the taking of necessary steps such as the use of force. Although the problem of piracy lasted a long time in September 2008 the Somali pirates first fired missiles on a French tuna hunter who sailed at a distance of 420 nautical miles from the coast. The ship was able to escape, but the entire European tuna fleet operating in the western part of the Indian Ocean had to retreat towards the Seattles. Probably to explain the motives of this action. It is 55 French and Spanish vessels, 2,000 employed fishermen and 200000 tonnes of caught fish. The area of piratery, the Aden Bay, the strategic passage between the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea was then qualified as the most dangerous zone in the world. We need to know that half of the oil and gas passes through that seaway between Somalia and Yemen, and every year that amount of oil is transported by 16000 ships, or 40 ships a day. According to the International Maritime Office, Somali pirates successfully carried out 60 attacks and charged more than 18m euros from January to October 2008, and according to the Ekoteria of the international NGO for the environment, which oversees illegal maritime activities in the Somalian pirate region, carried out 126 attacks by the middle of last year, of which 44 successful abductions of ships. Soldiers from European Union countries have no exclusive task of intimidated pirates. Those attackers are allowed to arrest and confiscate their ships and equipment. They must not be persecuted on land but only at sea. However, as it is said, but not clearly enough is only part of the problem, the tip of the iceberg, because the deep causes of piratery are in the political, economic and social crisis in the area, not at sea. In other words, problems with Somali piracy are on land. The Somalia they call stateless and after almost 20 years does not have a stable government, in a country destroyed in the civil war of about 4 million people directly depends on international humanitarian aid, so as one entire population of the Republic of Croatia. In the early 2000s, it included only a few dozen fishermen or former coastguards who acted depending on the opportunities, but in the meantime developed and branched out. Who's in the pirate business? These are primarily young people who are hungry and are not afraid of death. This contributes to the survival of thousands of families in a country without economy and administration. Taking hostages there has become almost so industry, with orderers, financial networks, kidnapping teams, with ships that release ships that radars can't detect, sometimes here are several hundred miles from the coast. The number of pirate attacks is growing, and the ransom money criminals have modernised their equipment. They bought bigger ships that could intercept the prey on the high seas. The area controlled by the Atalanta mission is as large as 5 million kilometers square, which is about the European Union's surface area. According to the available data, the areas from which the pirate activities are initiated receive a percentage of each ransom. Money that is interesting goes to public spending in the area, including hospital and school systems. These ransoms have recently increased from 2.3 million to $4 million a month. Thanks to the establishment of its kind of pirate stock market and the increased number of investors in the piratery, such agility of investors and performers best describes the position of one of the organizers and the pirate stock market that says let the coalition that haunts us just do its job, we have no concern because our motto is in the business of kidnapping or dying. I remind you, colleagues and colleagues, along the coast of Somalia, about 12% of the global sea cargo is transported annually. The June 2008 Security Council Resolution 18/16 was the first sign of international mobilisation against piratery. This resolution cites the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea adopted in 1982 in Monteg Bay, which we very often call upon in the Croatian Parliament when we prove our right to sea in the Piran Bay. The agreement recognised the sovereignty of the coastal state over its territorial waters as 200 miles in an economic belt. The repression against piratery was allowed only on the high seas, and now the entry of warships is allowed into the territorial waters of Somalia. The European Union extended the Atalanta mission by another year in early December, and the mission's powers were extended. The mandate is now extended to the area of illegal fishing. It would be good if Europeans could get help from Africans on this mission, the European Union intends to train about 3,000 Somali soldiers from African Union countries to fight pirates. Also on land. The final decision has not yet been made. Comrades and colleagues, remember well that 10 years ago in September 1999. Croatia for the first time sent to the UN peacekeeping mission... in Sierra Leone 10 of their officers in their capacity... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] UN military observers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, out of 18 UN peacekeeping missions, the Republic of Croatia participates in 15 and has 424 members of the armed forces engaged. I think that by participating in Operation Atalanta, Croatia would contribute to internationalising the establishment of peace rather than internationalising the expansion of war, which is the legal consequence of the intervention of individual protagonists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45910	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45911	Thank you. Mr. President, gentlemen representatives of the Department of Defense. After the Cold War, the number of maritime patrols has been reduced, allowing for the organisation of piracy, mainly on narrow seals such as the Bay of Mali and the Gulf of Aden. Piratery in Somalia accounts for 30% of world piracy, which was reported in 2006 by 239 pirate attacks, in 2007 263, meaning increased. The 2008 Security Council resolution, as well as the European Union Decision to protect trade vessels carrying food for Somalia, has engaged European forces of 14 ships, 3 aircraft of the United Kingdom Armed Forces, France, Greece, Spain, Germany and Sweden, under the command of counter-admir Peter Hudson of the British Royal Navy. The Croatian Parliament made a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces in Operation Atalanta on 3 April 2009. Operation Atalanta lists up to 5 members with the possibility of rotation, with the task of deterring and preventing part of piracy and armed robbery along the coast of Somalia. Operation Atalanta includes members of the Croatian Navy, meaning officers or officers. Today we heard a lot of similar and different opinions about the operation. In fact, in all the things I have been able to read in these 2 months as far as we have been able to prepare for this part, these pirates are the poorest layer of the Somali people, but surely this poor people can't have such fast moving ships and speedboats and so well-armed, which suggests that it is still on land organised by a particular mafia, or certain jobs that have included that poor bread-based poverty, and that those on these markets that are being talked about today, that is, the ultimate benefit would most be for criminals and mobsters. I think that the reference of our 5 officers to this operation is a new experience for our members of the Croatian Navy, who also took part after the Homeland War in the Croatian Navy and did not have these war experiences, as did the people who had left, who had finished their youth, people who had completed schools only in 2000 and 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 that it was a great experience for them in this part and that it was an honor for the Republic of Croatia to participate with its part among the nearly 2,000 members who defended the operation there, European members of the armed forces, and I think that they should wish them luck and success that they should definitely support this decision because it is at the benefit of the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45912	Thank you. We have one replica. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45913	Mr. President, I may want to use this replica briefly to support this agreement, but also to mention that it is a great skill for Croatian sailors and sea captains. So you have an example from last year of a Dubrovnik captain who, with a passenger ship right on the shores of Somalia, came to the aid of a merchant ship and saved that ship and was eventually awarded the "Blue Tape" of the Vesnik and perhaps that aspect should be taken into account. Of course I support this agreement, but here I have one personal experience from other shores not Somalia, but it was in the '80s on the coast of Indonesia, passing between Indonesia and Singapore when I accidentally found myself on a merchant ship threatened by pirates and a pirate warning. There was no defense at the time, no weapons were established, and the sailors on board were used with water cannons and barbed wire trying to save themselves from those pirates who were supposed to be on board. That is why I think that this aspect and all the world's sailors should be taken into account, and I therefore use the opportunity to support this agreement through this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45914	Thank you. And, finally, Secretary of State Mato Raboteg, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45915	First of all, I would like to thank all the MPs and MPs who supported this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, but I also need to address the comments of the HDSSB representative which was a comment in the sense that this bill was in fact another condescending acceptance of dictatorships or pressures by the EU. I can also say that the assessment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also evident from the attached discussions and most representatives of the Croatian Parliament that the participation of the Republic of Croatia in this military operation is in the political interest of the EU military operation in the political interest of the Republic of Croatia, but also in the interest of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia because this means the development of new military capabilities. This means actually obtaining additional experience in planning and applying joint operations in a multinational environment. This also means developing interoperable procedures. This also means gaining experience in supporting remote and logistic demanding operations. Finally, I must say that neither the Croatian Government nor this Parliament has made a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in any operation without the former Ministry of Defence giving a qualified and professional assessment of the capabilities of our armed forces to successfully carry out those tasks required of the participation of the Republic of Croatia in an international peace operation. So thank you once again to those who understand what this is about and thank you for supporting this bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45916	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45917	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, it is said here that I was talking about the EU's pressure on Croatia. I have not spoken in one word about the EU's pressure on Croatia to send our troops, our navy, members of our navy to Somalia. I think that the Republic of Croatia, I say more like this, has its own proposals and evaluations that it agrees with without any specific negotiations, any special in connection with the departure of our soldiers into such remote areas. About this and about the purpose of this "Operation Atalanta", as well as the objectives of the piratery, he mentioned little shyly and Mr Biljic in his debate so that I think that the issue of Somalia should be resolved, and that poverty and everything else where it came from. So, economic, political and any other and economic aid to a state called Somalia, not this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45918	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Act confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union military operation to contribute, deter, prevent and prevent acts of piracy and armed robbery along the coast of Somalia, Atalanta operations. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 479. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on this final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal, the final draft of the law, was adopted by most votes, 107 votes in favour and one against, no abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45921	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here in the second reading we are discussing the law, or the proposal of the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. A law that also regulates the part-round, as well as the way members of the state commission are appointed, as well as employees of the professional services of the state commission itself. The State Commission, you will soon have a chance to consider their work report. The Commission is and is a body which is in public procurement procedures and, by the basis of the Public Procurement Act and the basis of this law, which we will only adopt will extend its competence to concessions and models of the public private partnership. The body which, at each stage of the complaint and at any stage of the procurement procedure, is subject to an evaluation on the basis of the proposal submitted, appeal by interested parties. In this segment, but starting from some of the life examples that we have had the opportunity to see and which have been shown in, therefore, based on the work and experience of the work of the state commission so far, on the basis of, of course, the harmonisation with the acquis, but also on the life experience and the practice that the law cannot regulate the human conscience and not even the human conscience of the employee of the state commission, we have seen that life in some way writes the Law in this case, and in this sense this proposal is particularly about the conditions for members of the Commission, the way in which they are appointed and we change it in a way that they pass the public tender and in particular what happens after they come out of the State Commission is contained in this Bill Proposal. The State Commission must be composed of people of unquestionable integrity and, of course, of what we had opportunities to witness in the media, which still takes place as an open procedure and would be very ungrateful to comment on what to put into this perspective at all, has somehow led us to believe that life has partly written this bill too. I would like to thank you for the debate that took place in the first reading, it has directly resulted in an improved text of the Law, thanks also to discussions held on committees, as well as amendments, and we are working at this point on a proposal from the Committee on Legislatives that, in some ways, we may be a little clearer, more specifically, to regulate the conditions for members of the Commission. It is important to stress that we do not allow pressure on the members of the Commission, it is important to stress that their decisions already on the Internet and on the eyewitnesses who have followed and followed that we have increased transparency and insight into their work, daily through their web site, through their reports and that over their work and that over the work of those valuable institutions that have for years only positive reactions from Brussels in the overall system to keep exactly the level we have at this moment. Here, very briefly, I thank you for your attention, of course, we are at our disposal for specific questions if they will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45922	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. The chairman of the Legislative Committee, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the 81st session held on 2 December 2009, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the final draft law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this Act and submits the following amendments to the final proposal. For the purposes of Article 21(2), first, the words ‘only’ shall be added in the preceding paragraph, within 6 months of the date of payment’, with a reason that it is appropriate to determine the time limit within which the refund may be applied. Second, Article 25, therefore, proposes to be deleted by an amendment, with reasons, so that the following provisions of Article 26 of this Act will simultaneously enter into force and the provisions of Article 25 shall apply, at the same time, to the extent that Article 25 is excessive. Third, in addition to the amendments set out, the Committee proposes that the applicant review the solution referred to in Article 10 and its amendment remove the deficiencies. In this regard, it is proposed to reconsider the provision for a member of the state commission that the candidate must have at least 5 years of working experience in public procurement activities, which significantly narrows down the circle of persons who might be able to carry out such duties, for example a long-standing judge with an enviable, legal and judicial reputation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45924	Thank you. Do the other committees want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. The first is on behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45925	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. Right now, to be seen on behalf of the Club, the SDP Club will support this law, so it will vote for its adoption. However, the current Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and the Public Procurement Act are neither the reason nor the cause of the state of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, it is more important that social and political circumstances are for fair procurement than some norm in the law, that this shows exactly the current situation with procedures in public procurement or procedures outside public procurement, repression, due to misuse of public procurement on the same legal basis. Unfortunately, in Croatia, it was not possible to expect successful and legal fair procurement and the fight against corruption in the field of public procurement, public private partnership and concessions in the last 5, 6 years when it was more important to know someone from the Government of the Republic of Croatia or in general someone from the government, but knowledge, honesty and entrepreneurial freedom and ability. So it was a joined-up policy and a lobby, and that doesn't break with a naked legal standard. There is more important activity of the authorities in particular inspection and of the state administration in preventive action to avoid the consequences of both government and citizens, money will no longer be returned. However, in today's campaign to drive out justice in the area of public procurement, in particular corruption, it is dangerous for both the future of the government and the citizens of Croatia to seek equality in the political key. It is not the rule of law, nor the rule of law, but rather the needs of the government and the ruling. We have indeed had very interesting moves over the past few years when it comes to the Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, so we have replaced the President who has received recognition from European experts and the European Commission. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement is the state body of the Sui Genis, which ex-legis corresponds to the Parliament. However, what is the relationship between the Croatian Parliament or the parliamentary majority when it comes to its task of overseeing, controlling the government and the ministry. In the last five, six years, I could say that the parliamentary majority, according to the government's control and supervision, has been treating Malta not obediently or servially. As a result, we could expect such a rule of the parliamentary majority when such behaviour disappeared that a campaign would develop to protect the majority. The consequences are not only for power but also for citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Nor is such a campaign good for justice, and even less is it good for the security of investment and economic operators. The state commission's action is post-festum, when it's all over and when it's all agreed. That is why we do not have a successful or successful fight against public procurement corruption through the State Commission's action to control public procurement procedures. Without the involvement of inspections, audits and ministers and their internal surveillance, we will not be able to overcome corruption through public procurement. That this is how all the affairs so far have recently been discovered by either journalists or trade unions. So we don't have open affairs by state authorities, especially those that act preventively, inspection, audit surveillance, but post-festum through the work of journalists and trade unions. Such a situation is not good for this draft law when it comes to the provisions of Articles 9 and 13. So, I repeat this is the state body of sui generis that corresponds to the Croatian Parliament independently of the Government, and in Articles 9 and 13 of this proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the only promoter of the composition and members of the state commission. In addition, the government is the only one empowered to propose a resolution of these members of the state commission, so I don't see much independence from the government. It's in a certain way absurd in the proposal, travestite. In the area of appointment and accountability, a solution that the Parliament already has for independent bodies that have been given solutions not to list now, that I am the Assembly body responsible for him and appoints and resolves on the proposal of its working bodies, its own and autonomous will without the influence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We have such solutions for such bodies, that I don't count them now. In the work of such a body, it is very important that without government interference or without parliamentary majority and their links with the government and reasons for respecting the government's wishes, the parliament or parliamentary bodies can act. If it is added that in order to provide financial resources for the work of the Commission, in fact, the Government through the draft budget has a significant impact on the position of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, then it seems even more illogical that it is the only one who is authorised to appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to liability for damage, I think it should at least be prescribed by which rules determine responsibility for damage to material or immaterial. It is not specified here, however, but when it is not specified then it is logical that the illegal and irregular work of the State Commission will cause damage to the economic operator will have both a material and immaterial form. It should be specified by which rules this will take place. Finally, it is very important to know that a large group of procedures in matters of public procurement does not come under the control of the Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, nor is it possible to come. Either because of the law itself or because social circumstances do not encourage competition participants to complain, because they are such circumstances that they are not worth complaining about, because in the next competition they will not get a job at least being the best. Therefore, it is very important to return to the fact that it is not expected from the standard of solving public procurement problems in the Republic of Croatia, but rather that the fair work of the bodies detained for prevention is expected, these are government bodies, i.e. the ministries, inspections, offices, etc., and it is very important for the state commission to ensure independence from the government, and this proposal does not fully do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45926	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45927	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I would much rather talk about the Commission's report on public procurement control than about this by my court unnecessary law. We have the law, the law was passed in 2003. I don't see what's changing in that law or why it's changing at all. If it was about changes, or these supplements, I wouldn't say anything, I wouldn't say a word, but these 26 articles, as they were, I think, are unnecessary. But what might be needed if we are already adopting a new law, which is what this law does not know, which is the first to define a deadline, more specifically to set a deadline within which the commission must act, not to say by its inaction sometimes causes damage to performers and orderlies. Especially is that deadline needed or he would be important at this time when almost all investments in this country have stopped. And what has less investment has fewer jobs and less income in the state budget. It turns out when a man reads this law that we're kind of dealing with ourselves. I know, for example, one case where the job is done. The answer came later. So what now? But I also know that the mourner didn't have the best price, and finally, when we're going to define and maybe by one law, that everyone knows what the best price is. I think that in one such law on the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure, it should also define the position of the complainant, one who, for example, prolongs the implementation of the works if the complaint is not accepted by the Commission, I think that if he caused some damage and probably should have suffered certain damage or liability because it led, for example, to the fact that the job was not completed within 6 or 12 months but 24 or 28 months. Article 11 of this Commission states that a member of the state commission must maintain his reputation as well as the reputation of the state commission, not question his impartiality, independence in decision-making and independence in the work of the state commission, is not disputed. A Member of the State Commission shall not perform a service or a job which may affect its independence or impartiality in the performance of the work, a little later on. A Member of the State Commission shall not carry out its own economic, professional or other activity, have a share in capital or business, decision-making, voting rights or be a member of the supervisory boards and other bodies, etc. Now, at first glance, there seems to be nothing controversial, but why not strictly regulate the position of his closer and further family. Why wouldn't the position of godmothers, friends, or others be defined here in some way? Until it is installed in this article 11, then it is possible that anything is happening here and such a law is hardly acceptable. I will once again quote paragraphs 2 and 3 that a Member of the State Commission should not perform a service or a job that could affect its independence and impartiality in the performance of the job. Okay, I repeat, what's with the members of his closer, further family. And Article 3(3) of the State Commission may not, excuse me, carry out economic, professional or other activities independently, have a share in a company of capital or business share, decision-making rights, voting rights or be a member of the Board of Supervisors and other bodies. What about his husband or wife, what about his children, his mother, his father, his best man or something? It is clear that not only the president, but also the members of this State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure always came from people close to the authorities. That's probably how it's going to be today, and it's probably gonna be today. That's probably how it's gonna be tomorrow. No one will convince me that tomorrow will be different than today. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will here only quote paragraphs 5 and 7 that the Government will appoint a committee to prepare and carry out tenders to determine the list of candidates who have applied for the tender and meet the conditions for members of the state commission prescribed by this law. And paragraph 7: "The government of the Republic of Croatia will be among the candidates found to meet the conditions for selecting candidates to propose to the Croatian Assembly for President, Vice-President, members of the state commission.". Clearly, there is always something to suggest and always a political decision is contained in this proposal. Those who teach lessons about the divine independence of some individuals, some third ones, etc. I can tell it to someone else but not to me. So we see how independent some of them were, for example, independent of the Podravka case, for example, of the chairmanship of the Supervisory Board. So I'm too into politics that I don't know that everyone clearly has a tendency and that in the last 20 years it's likely to be similar in the next ten or twenty years. Neither could you have been the President of the Commission for the Control of Public Procurement or a Member without being someone willing or not being subject to the alignment of the position and opposition in this House, as you could not have been editor of, say, some media without some political closeness and affection, and you could not have been the director of a state-owned company without thus expressing your ideological or not knowing how I would say interest. And so it will be in the future. Article 19, The State Commission is required to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on its work once a year and no later than 31 March for the previous calendar year. At the request of the Croatian Parliament, the State Commission is required to submit a report for a period shorter than one year. The part of the report is data, an analysis of legal protection in public procurement and concessions and the selection of a private partner in public-private partnership projects. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So the number of items received, the number of cases solved, rejected, rejected basic complaints, the number of unsecured procurement procedures, the number of pending cases etc. What I would also like on this example to be incorporated into the law, so let him, when we have to adopt it, go into the third reading. This should require that any such case be described means in a more recent manner than the Ombudsman does. Statistics here in this house shouldn't interest anyone too much, none of us should be burdened, none of us should be overworked. That is the only way it would be possible to control the commission itself if MPs knew the way the commission is being set up on concrete proposals. For this situation that we have today, let's say in the country when it comes to public procurement, clearly in the first place it's politics, but it's the commission and the state's attorney's office, too, but I think it's mostly bad laws. Therefore, if, by virtue of one such law, we give a group of people express power, influence on opportunities in society, then I think these laws should be laid down and that every action of people should be subject to the Court of Justice of the Croatian Parliament. For example. if Croatian highways are required for archaeological works to single out about 500 million kunas or are, then an absurd law. They're all prolonging these archaeologists forever, almost racketeering public administration, I'm not going to say, but listen, it just needs to be changed as soon as possible so that something in this country can start working normally. Because you can't do any work de facto in Pula, Rovinj, Poreč, without losing two or three years of just hanging out with that archeological I'll call it racketeering. But what am I saying? That absurd laws should be deleted should be amended. Those who are not required, and this is one of those laws should not be adopted in this form. This law is inconclusive and for some time we can still work on the existing one, and this might also be based on the comments of the IDS club to fix it in a way that is directed to third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45928	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The purpose of the amendments and the addition of this law is to clearly extend the competence of the State Commission to the areas of concession, thus giving concessions and public-private partnership. Otherwise, as far as I can tell, nothing important changes what's wrong. It is bad because it remains the same bad or inefficient public procurement control organisation, only now extends to concessions and to a public-private partnership, and it is bad because the Commission does not have the possibility to intervene in public procurement procedures to control public procurement or procurement procedures. There is, therefore, no difference between, for example, judicial inspection, no kind of annual plan, so that at the county level so many times it controls the procedures by, say, some method of random choice or some method of pre-defined plan, controls public procurement procedures at, say, cities, so many times controls public procurement procedures and at the level of municipalities, of course also at the level of state institutions, states and ministries, but can intervene in public procurement procedures, or can exercise control of public procurement procedures, and now also the procedures of awarding concessions and public-private partnerships only if someone involved in the process complains about the regularity of the process itself. In other words, if no one complains, the commission has no right to intervene. As we know, in many cases it is business where the city, the municipalities, the state, the county, is more or less the only or at least the main principal of some kind of business. And it's very likely that whoever applied for that job will be offering a favor, that they'll have to deal with that county, the state, the city or the municipality afterwards. And therefore, he is smarter to cover himself with ears and not complain even when an offence has been committed, even if the artis lege has not been carried out in public procurement because he will again come to the same example of the customer of services or goods, and if he complained in the previous proceedings he will probably have a somewhat reduced chance of getting a job. Therefore, by setting up a Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in a situation in which it cannot and cannot intervene without being invited by someone without being filed by a participant in the procedure itself, not to be complained and requested by the commission to reduce the effectiveness of the commission. And now the same inefficient method is only expanding to the award of concession and public-private partnership. We believe in the HNS Club that this is bad practice, not bad practice, but bad regulation, so this is a bad way to regulate public procurement control, which, of course, comes from bad practice. Based on the example of judicial inspection, for example, which does not wait for someone to complain but has an annual control plan, an annual inspection plan, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures should also have, and especially now that it is involved in concessions and a public-private partnership, it should have an annual plan to control procedures without the condition that someone complains and sues that he has been wronged in the procedure itself. The second observation by the HNS club. As far as we know, and Secretary of State Obradović Mazal will know this well, there is a body for managing or controlling public procurement and within the Ministry of Economy. Now, who controls what and what is the relationship between the public procurement control body at the Ministry of Economy and the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures? Which one of those two bodies controls who? Is that a double? As far as I know about European standards, that's exactly what it was about to do to throw out the duplication, so double command line or double control line, to get out because whenever there's a double line of control, of course control decreases, or there's an act of one another as a logical option. So what the European standards are certainly looking for is safe to avoid a double line of command. So, what is the relationship between the public procurement control from the Ministry of Economy and the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and what whoever is doing please explain us here a little more. And the final procedure of public procurement and particularly the control of public procurement procedures gives, which is what the HNS Club has previously given, and also by law waiting a long time on the agenda and which we have put in the procedure warned. The process of public procurement control enables and allows it to be used as an instrument to address the problem of individence. So the state is able not to pay its bills, to enter into new procurement procedures, to lead to bankruptcy or to the destruction of a series of companies that work for a state whose state does not pay and there are no sanctions. There is a legal provision that the state must pay its bills, but there are no sanctions. If he doesn't pay, then nothing. And public procurement is exactly the area where, of course, this huge problem is created and a chain of indifference that destroys craftsmen, small companies, now and medium-sized companies, and soon will be large. So the possibility left to the state not to pay anyone anything, and to go on in public procurement has largely caused this so that no one pays anything and causes this indifference. In the process of public procurement control, it should be introduced and regulated by law that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures when it is given the opportunity to intervene on its own, rather than waiting for someone to complain, because in this way it really becomes just a decoration, that it has the ability to hitchhike legally, to enter into any public procurement procedure for the State when it has not paid the bills. So when she didn't pay those she had already asked for and received goods or services and obtained goods or services. This law wouldn't be enough for that. Therefore, the law governing the business of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures would not be sufficient, but should be combined with the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, and then give the State Commission powers in this regard, and impose sanctions in the Public Procurement Act, i.e. banning the possibility of public procurement when invoices are not paid and thus begin to resolve the issue of individence. As regards the state commission, in this state or in this situation in which it does not have the possibility by some, in any way, of selecting companies according to some statistical rules by a random sample method or perhaps some other indicators, but certainly not waiting for someone to complain, where they cannot intervene and cannot intervene, neither in cases under this law now nor in cases of award of concessions, nor in cases of public-private partnership proceedings. Such a commission actually loses its meaning. So as far as the HNS club is concerned, if we don't get some really reasonable explanation, we don't see how we can support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45930	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer, State Secretary, esteemed Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45931	I thank and thank you for asking. As Secretary of State, I am primarily in charge of public procurement and the Public Procurement System Administration, and as a name alone, we are in charge of the entire system and of synergy between public-private partnership concessions and public procurement. Of course, in our jurisdiction as a formal promoter is also the control of procedures. But I'm saying a bit of a formal proposer. What the Public Procurement Administration does primarily is not control or control in a way that we act by appeal because it is the responsibility of the State Commission. What we do next to the strategic part, in addition to writing laws, implementing acts and implementation here is a second year successful for the order of extensive education at all levels in the Republic of Croatia, and in that sense we have reserved our right to this summer and have adopted a new Regulation on preventive-instructive activity, where my administration based on either anonymous applications or signed applications, based on an insight into the electronic public procurement advertiser during the time of delivery and during the course of the procedure we intervene on our initiative against all sectoral and public contractors in their procedures. What is it that we want to accomplish? As the word says, we're doing prevention. While the procurement process is ongoing, and while the irregularities we identify can be removed, we seek to remove them from our preventive-instructive activities. It's not surveillance, it's not control in terms of work being done by the state commission. It is an activity that we produce and we are working on our initiative and it can be generated on our own, so we can be beginners of this activity, control the process that is under way, which is interesting to us because of the value or the subject of the purchase, or because of the client if the statisticalally viewed client in the previous year had a large number of complaints against his public procurement procedures. So our goal is to act preventively. However, what we also did last summer through the new regulation is that we made it possible to act on the request of the State's Attorney's Office, so when the State's Attorney's Office in its procedures requires professional analysis, i.e. to conduct either ex post or in real time such activity, and to give the State's Attorney's Office an expert opinion on whether or not the law is broken, we do so. We and the state commission don't do the same two activities, so we don't overlap. I hope that satisfies your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45932	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Goran Maric, on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45933	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Public procurement is of paramount importance for the economic life of every nation and so is the Republic of Croatia, and if it is important for economic life, it is also important for the whole social situation. It is important to have the State Commission's professional, professional and ethical action to control the procurement process, and to make this a very important and quality legal framework. And after a quality legal framework, it is even more important to select those who will be members of the state commission, to make it the most professional and professional control. The first reading was extremely dynamic, even violent. Rarely, what bill of law had so many remarks in the first reading, both from the ranks of the position, and from the opposition. And it is commendable that it has also yielded fruit, and that most, in fact, I mean 90% of the observations made in the first reading were accepted and incorporated into this final bill. The remarks they made on both the left and the right, even the common remarks. It was adopted so that observations regarding the statutes, that it was not defined who proposed the statute, who confirmed it. It is now seen that the statute confirms the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia within 30 days, because it was not even defined. And the truth is that the first bill had a large number of shortcomings, but now it's largely changed. There were mentions in the first reading and great criticisms at the expense of the official secret that was just mentioned, and it was not normable. And now she's well-adjusted. You know exactly what makes the official secret. The deadline for submission of sublegal acts has been reduced. It has not been defined, and now it has been defined as a candidate procedure in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the appointment of members of the state commission. It was not visible, and now it is visible who appoints the president, who is the deputy and who members, the Government of the Republic of Croatia already lists in its proposal the Croatian Parliament and the President of the State Commission, and the Deputys, as well as the other members. There have been a lot of complaints in a way if a member of the commission is resolved to receive compensation regardless of what he has committed and a criminal offence. Here it is also adopted, it has been corrected, so that the right to compensation for salaries and regulations and the basis for resolutions proposed by the Governments of the Republic of Croatia is now revised, but also by those regulations which do not give rise to the right to remuneration. A report on the work of the state commission was also adopted, and it was abolished. The deadline in which the state commission submits a report on the work of the Croatian Parliament has also been reduced, so the deadline is now due until 31 March of the current year, for the previous year. And the biggest opposition triggered Article 10 of the Bill on the State Commission, i.e. the conditions for members of the State Commission. It should, however, be said to be a member of the state commission and the president and deputy state commission is also a certain power. 40 billion kuna a year, that really gives social power, control over it. That power also requires responsibility. Responsibility is within each person, and it depends on the character of the person, but it can and should be contained in the terms of legal solutions, especially under the conditions prescribed for members of the state commission. And indeed, more and more important things and remarks have been accepted, and here I think it's a little awkward when it comes to Article 10 and that we need to examine it one more time. Namely, the prescribed conditions for the President of the Commission are indeed decided and conditional even to the European Commission, but leads them to question Article 1 where it says that the President of the State Commission, regardless of whether he was a public lawyer or a public notary or a lawyer and has also a judicial exam and 10 years of employment after a judicial examination, cannot be chaired if he has not been employed for 10 years in public procurement operations. Accordingly, I have personally submitted an amendment to make it clear and prescribed conditions for members of the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure, so that we propose that for the President of the State Commission, the conditions laid down, which are also required by the European Commission, are not required to have them in public procurement operations for 10 years. And it is also in the proposal that a member of the commission must have completed a university study of economics, rights or technical orientation, and no way has the case of a specialist graduate professional study been included so far. I hope that, if it is accepted, that at last this law will look extraordinary, that it will be effective and that, in accordance with the prescribed conditions, those who will effectively lead the State Commission to control the procurement process will be chosen. The HDZ club supports and will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45934	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45935	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament and allow me, given my health situation here, to speak. It is also evident from this final proposal of the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, and after the debate was held last year that there was an improvement and inclusion of those proposals which were presented in the debate in the first reading. It is clear, as some speakers pointed out here before me, that this State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, but now also the concession and control of the public private partnership is actually the State Commission in its own title and in order to work on the appeal procedure, actually a post-festum commission. So, no matter what is here, as pointed out, someone said they had the right to insight, but they don't. You said Madam Secretary of State that there is a control of public procurement in the Ministry of Economy, in which, in fact, it is more or less advisory in the public procurement process itself or in the award of concessions or in the pursuit of a public private partnership. It would be good if what's in the process, so that would be kind of an ex-temporary, so at the time of the competition. At the time of the public procurement, the public private partnership or the award of the concession. However, what is missing in our society and in our country is just that prevention, I would not talk about some fear or imposition of fear in such actions even though we are witnessing that fear has never been so far. When we're bombed daily by reports, newspaper articles and knowledge of crime and corruption in this particular area. In fact, public procurement, a public-private partnership, concessions are exactly the source of crime and corruption that struck us and which, day after day, one by one is revealed, one by one is published, and it has indeed become the main problem of our country. In the very law on the State Commission, which actually speaks more about the Commission itself and its structure, its formation, etc., and I do not believe it will contribute to some improvement in terms of reducing corruption because it is doing a post-festum as Mr. Leco said. So, he's doing the appeal procedure if he has it, if he doesn't have it then he doesn't even have the work of this State Commission. Because in art. 2. It is true that it is done, that this body, the commission responsible for resolving complaints. And we know very well, we don't need to hide this, that in public procurement procedures, public private partnership and others there are also agreements between public procurement participants. So I'm talking about those private, or natural or legal persons competing in public procurement procedures, and you know for a fact that you in the Ministry of Economy have certain arrangements. Clearly, in that case, appeal and wastes because in another subsequent cycle of public procurement and public private partnership, the other person who has given or agreed will profit. How to apologize that this country of ours, that this society of ours, I will not say for fear of sanctions, but for how to achieve any moral dignity at all, some ethics in this segment when you, to say how someone writes, are greening you, bills very tempting and when people are weak on them. We really should all think about it here together. Someone mentioned that there are possibilities of prevention or prevention in terms of revision. We had a review of privatisation and conversion, no one did. There's also a judicial inspection that could also work in this sense, in the sense that I'm talking about right now. Which should act more prompt, rigorously and clearly the State Attorney's Office which is now just a little bit deeper and buried in materials from the columns on the "Croatian highway" to the color of the tunnels and everything else, from the purchase of retards on "Croatian Railway" or those automatic cash registers for issuing tickets or tickets on railway stations, on railway stations. So, really, when a person looks at everything, it is simply not possible to create the impression that wherever they are in Zagreb there is precisely in this segment of public procurement of a public-private partnership or the award of concessions that we are simply, not us, but those who do it and do it, they simply cut off in some kind of fraud, in crime and in the possibility of actually robbing Croatian taxpayers, which is actually the state of Croatia. In addition, I will not say that I object, but I am saying that this commission is a post-festum, it can be seen that when the articles of this law are seen, and that it is appointed by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, which would be first-hand and joyful, but then, in some other articles, it is suggested that it be appointed and resolved on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We are a democracy in which most governments, so that means that some of these declared impartiality or independence as it says here in the article. 11. However, although I do not want to believe, although I am in good faith that members of the State Commission will work with honor to work professionally, because it is so prescribed in other articles, Mr Maric spoke of it, from the HDZ Club of Representatives, but since it is clear that the majority votes in the Assembly, regardless of whether it was left or some mix mixture, therefore it depends on the appointment, resolution, and I would not like to doubt the work of that parliamentary majority and the government, which suggests from the proposed, or registered in a competition for the composition of the State Commission, so the Government elects and proposes the Council of the Republic of Croatia to adopt the composition of the Commission, the President, the Vice-President and three other members. Therefore, the others will not even come to mind that we are discussing them here in the assembly benches. So, what I wanted to point out, yes, although I rejoiced when I saw this article which was previously, that the Parliament appointed that commission, yet ultimately it is seen from the material that it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not directly, through the Parliament's majority. But it's such a democracy that most people decide, so I guess that's how they decide. Someone here discussed Article 11 and resented that the article did not say that in paragraph 5 that a member of a state commission should not be a member of a political party, must not perform a duty in the bodies of a political party or be a member of any form of interest association that could lead to a conflict of interest. So it is argued that in some item 6 and this additionally includes relatives as some godfathers have said, etc., closer and further that they cannot be in the procedures under consideration of this commission. However, we are also witnessing today that certain law firms are allowed to take over temporary management of certain legal entities, certain companies, companies and that they actually manage these companies on behalf of someone who appear or report for public procurement procedures, public private partnership or grant concessions. Thus, it is difficult sometimes to determine whether there are, as a colleague of Cain’s friends, relatives, godparents, and whether their fingers are involved in these actions. In any case, the proposal for this law is an improvement compared to that first reading, and although I say myself somehow since there is this State Commission, there has been some kind of centralised but also subjection to the rules of democratic decision-making of the majority, hence the party interests, where the state is unique to the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, in some ways I am saying it is centralisation when it is decided by appeal in public procurement, public private partnership or the award of concession. We're going to get the amendments and we're going to hear the secretary of state and we're going to decide how we're going to vote as the HDSB Club on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45936	Thank you. That's where we closed the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state. When I read the Final Bill proposal in the first wave, I wanted to start my discussion that I should give him an evaluation of 5+, because of a very rare example that from the first reading the Proposer accepted so many good suggestions and installed in the second reading. And he really deserves to be commended. But then I made a mistake, so I read the Law one more time, I'm not going to lower the score, I'm not going to stand for amendments, although it's a second reading, in the final proposal, but I'm going to explain, Madam Secretary of State to two problems that are still not well solved in the law, and it's not going to be a good law unless you or someone else intervenes with your amendments. Of the large number of my proposals, one that is not accepted is conceptual nature, and I am sorry that you insist on the State Commission as a complaint rather than as a control body. I understand, these are two completely different concepts and you insist that the State Commission is an appeal body, and not, because even the name doesn't correspond to the essence, because it's not control, it's for appeal. However, in order to get a full picture in public procurement procedures, Madam Secretary of State, it would really be useful for us, not even to be a point of the agenda, but to provide us with a report from the Public Procurement Administration in this part where you act as advisoryly preventive, what you were saying earlier, because you could actually see from this, because you are dealing with the essence, the problems, so not with statistics, but in essence, that we see what the most common problems are in public procurement procedures, where most or most often you have to intervene. So your report would be useful to us to understand the procedure prescribed in this law. I know it's not mandatory, I know it's not foreseen, but it's your goodwill and the minister to have such a single report come in front of us annually. Therefore, I still believe that the Commission should have a control and not just an appeal function. Now, as far as the provisions of the proposed text are concerned. Article 11 of the Commission defines that they are not officials. Okay. However, this means that the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest does not apply to members of the State Commission, the counterresponsibility may immediately be prescribed by this law in detail which is not allowed and that conflicts of interest must be kept. However, sanctions for conflict of interest here and in the Law on conflict of interest are not the same, nor are the procedures for proof and sanctioning. I am in the view that this state commission should be covered by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, because, for example, you do not have a ban on receiving gifts here, and in that law you have, so it turns out that a member of the State Commission can continue to receive gifts because he is not an official. It's just for example. A gift doesn't necessarily have to be corruption, but it can be. That is why I believe that the issue of conflict of interest and this commission must be resolved. In addition, Article 13. In the explanation of that part of the comments received from the first reading quoted on page 16: "The applicant also accepted the comment of MP Dragutin Lesar, Goran Marin, Josip Lek, and examined the solution to the provision of Article 14(2) of the Law. The comments were adopted and incorporated in Article 13(6) of the final proposal of the law." The pay, it was the pay. However, Article 13 does not contain paragraph 6 of the final draft law in Article 13 does not contain paragraph 6. Now I don't understand how the pay issue has been settled because in my final proposal, Article 13 of the Code, there is no paragraph 6. I didn't hear, six plus six out. ... Article 6(6) of Article 13 So something's left unsolved. And now I ask by which rules and acts determine the salaries of the members and presidents of the commission. So, which legal actions apply to their salaries. This Regulation shall enter "The Internal Order Rules of Procedure shall be brought by the President of the State Commission." Why the commission itself, and not the bodies of the commission, and not just the president. I don't understand. I think that part should change, however, that the Internal Order Regulation is passed by a state commission, not by the President of the Commission. Article 19 reports, reports coming before the Parliament. One comment and one proposal. I quote: "A list of clients who have a number of procedures" is a larger number. It's an arbitration provision, because the president of the commission can determine that the larger number of 50 I can be at the point that the larger number of complaints is 5. I think it is not good in the law to write a larger number or we will prescribe a percentage or at least that much, rather than allow the president of the state commission to decide who he will include in the report he will give to the Croatian Parliament, and thus to the Croatian public. And secondly, apart from the number of items received, solved cases, cancelled cases, unsolved cases and the list of orderlies, I think it would be terribly important to add value in these lists. Therefore, not the value of the subject of public procurement, because one public procurement procedure can be worth a million kunas, so cancelled or 50 million kunas. And let this still make a big difference in weight itself, so that, apart from the mere statistics of the census, the case numbers of the State Commission must also show the value of the procurement procedure shown in its report. And how those received, as resolved, unsolved, even in that list of contracting entities, not only the statistics of how many proceedings they had been denied, but also the value of the outstanding procurement procedures. And I'll finish the next one. And the most ideal law we're going to pass will not be a guarantee of absolute control in the public procurement process, because also the State Review in combing its clients oversees public procurement, but post-festum, two years behind. This commission is just an appeal body, and your administration is an advisory preventive body. I think as long as we don't have a body of something like let's call it a colloquial "public-procurement police" which, by official duty, will fall under the annual plan and review the public procurement process with the powers of stopping and repealing already in progress, I'm afraid there will be too much playing it all out and that every year we will realize that in Croatia, unfortunately, still at least 10% of the amount of public procurement procedures converted into 10 billion kuna, ends in the gray zone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45938	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes at 11.32. We're continuing an individual debate. And it's time for the Honorable Representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45939	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here are just a few sentences to contribute to the debate on the proposal of the State Commission on Public Procurement Control. When we talk about this law, it is necessary to say that in Croatia public procurement amounts to more than 45 billion kuna. According to some projections, as many as 12 billion kunas go to corruption, i.e. a girl I'd say from the state register. By simple language, every public procurement in Croatia is on average overpaid 25%. So 25% of the money leaks through the public procurement process. Now, we have a quality public procurement law. If we have a quality public procurement law, if we have a quality law on the State Commission to control public procurement, the question is why is that? Why do 12 billion kunas of public money get lost every year in these procedures? I think we can have the most perfect laws but in practice they don't have to live. The problem is that for the past few years, the Public Procurement Act has often been used to legalise non-transparent procurement procedures that were then most often concluded by paying goods and services far more than they should have. And that's why I think one of those things should be changed by this law. Not a problem, the Public Procurement Commission has controlled some 5, 6,7 billion kunas per year from these 45, but I think there is a bigger problem in those cases that are not subject to appeal. So most of the non-transparentity and corruption is happening at a level where there are no complaints. Why no complaints? Because jobs are being negotiated between big firms. We're witnessing cases that are happening now in public enterprises and there's just people who aren't me I'd say in agreement I can't get into the story. And of course there's no one to complain about. They're on their way to work. When you get a job at a lower price, you give up your job and then you become a subcontractor to someone who gets a higher price. In my view, the main problem is non-transparency and public procurement corruption in those big jobs where there are no complaints. That's not what the public commission controls. In that sense, I absolutely support the proposal, and if it's not written in writing, I don't know what club was talking about, I'll file it myself. It is the fact that the State Public Procurement Commission must also have its own programme where the method of random sampling will control certain purchases over one year. What is the name of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures? She controls simple complaints. And what about those cases that are suspicious and are not covered by the appeal? It must have at the sample level, as has the State Audit to cover certain segments, certain companies and their public procurement from year to year. In that case, they would not have had this many problems with public procurement in public enterprises. There wouldn't be a HEP, there wouldn't be an HZ if one year the State Public Procurement Commission chose to go into the control of the procedure at HZ. I guarantee that they would then be there much more responsible than they are today and they wouldn't have this much I would say intransparency, suspicions, public procurement reports. So that's the first and most basic thing that I think should be included in this law. It's hard to convince me, I'm looking at the State Commission's report year after year of fewer complaints, fewer and fewer cases are being analysed, and their value is less when you're looking at the sum. Now, there's a question. Or really raised that level, educated participants in the procedure, etc. and there is no more need for certain complaints but my feeling is that it is not the case, but rather the opposite that people see that there is no sense that the law is quite often and makes it impossible to appeal, to legalize things that are non-transparent and of course to give up then participants of complaints because they see that there is simply no use, no bread to make certain things right. And that's why I think if I can expand my debate a little bit that needs to be changed to the Public Procurement Act. I was looking at an example of an American where transparent is absolutely everything. You know, you've got a public procurement portal, you know what the service is, and it appreciates how much it's got all over the system. At this level, a public procurement system should be organised in Croatia so that everyone who has the Internet can make it very easy and not search the National Journals, by portals, on the websites of public enterprises, looking where there is as much as anyone has paid for what goods, what goods and what service they have ordered. There should be a portal that should be organised by the Ministry of Economy or the Public Procurement Office that will now be where you will be able to see at what price anyone in Croatia has purchased certain goods in the system, and from whom of course. And then corruption would be much less. Until then, we have the forest of law, the forest of regulations, we try. No one can be against this law. Who in Croatia would raise their hands against something that controls 45 billion kunas of budget money? No one. I can't do that, but I'll try and write that amendment. The Commission must have a work programme and must control periodically public enterprises which have become obviously now the biggest problem. Well, even if some of them don't have an obligation, we've seen it now is the FIMI media case, they have no obligation to order, to make a tender, etc. Of course, in that gray zone it leaves a lot of budget money not directly from the budget but because, let's say, HZ gets a donation from the state budget of 2 billion kuna but I guarantee that 2 billion kunas go non-transparently through certain competitions from HZ and that they should not donate public companies and such companies where standard transparency is not high-ranking. So it may not be direct budget money but it definitely damages the state, damages our businesses, damages Croatian citizens. That's the first thing. The other thing I'd like and inevitable is for the commission to have in place. It says here there must be at least three lawyers. Normally, perhaps even all five lawyers should be in view of the administrative procedure, since it is in some way a final solution where it is difficult, you are right, or you are no longer entitled to appeal than you can complain only to the Administrative Court. So that's good. But what I would also like to point out is that it must be specified inside that it must be covered within the professional services by judicial experts for certain areas which could reasonably assess how specific the service is, how specific the goods or anything else covered by the procedure can be determined realistically by its price. So these people have to be educated for that. Whether we have to use them as an external or even an obligation that someone has to have a commission employee and a testimony that he's educated to be a court expert, I don't know that needs to be discussed. But definitely, if we have defined lawyers who need to know the procedure, we must also specify people who will be able to assess and the values, so if it is legal to return the procedure to the beginning, because in many cases we have a situation in Croatia that is legal and from the plane it is visible that services are overpaid 3% and then it is impossible for a commission like this to return these items and refuse complaints, and it is seen that, let's say, if you set a condition that you have to have an x something to satisfy at all that you are participating within the tender, to see that someone has overpaid the service two times, but the Public Procurement Act has covered it. In the event that the Commission finds that prices are unrealistically high, it should cancel the tender by default, regardless of whether the object of the complaint is that or something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45940	We have two replicas. First is Honourable representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I was inspired by this part of yours when you spoke about the number of complaints. So it is clear from my personal contact with a whole series of public procurement participants not to decide to complain because they are ordered not to complain, because if they do not complain that they will be allowed to participate later in the distribution of cookies and that is the key problem. The problem is that in the fight against corruption in public procurement, we must have two verticals. One vertical vertical vertical verticalally verticalally vertical, and it's set great. But secondly, moral verticals don't work at all and you're absolutely right here and I hope the government will listen to you, that additional control mechanisms need to be introduced into this law in order to know in advance that certain public procurement procedures will be automatically subject to control and that would certainly reduce the possibility of corruption in public procurement procedures. And of course, I hope that the government will make sure that soon the full public procurement is on the portal, not only knows who answered but also that there is a public auction procedure, so on-line auction. This will be a key way to prevent the absolute possibility of corruption, of adapting competitions and of favouring individuals who have set out to exploit the possibility of achieving 10 to 20% of their personal benefits from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45942	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45943	Thank you very much. counterpart Jovanovic, the data suggests that there are fewer complaints from year to year and fewer values are being analysed. In 2005, 746 complaints were analysed, in 2006. 696, 2007 637 means every year less and more procedures. On the other hand, if we look at what parts were analyzed, we see that the works in two years were analysed from over 50%, in 2007, it fell to 30 percent. Now, what's happened here, that's what I'm curious about. Did people really run out of will to complain, whether the education of those who offered was better or the reason for what you're saying, and that's not to complain, we'll turn you on, you'll get a piece of cake and you'll be satisfied, but don't file a complaint, we'll do a job together, and we'll all be happy. Everyone will be happy except the Croatian citizens who pay for it, I said, on average, 25% more than they should.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45944	Thank you. And another replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45945	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, in your presentation you said you felt that there were fewer cases in the dispute because people had no confidence anymore and because of the ineffectiveness of the work of the state commission. Facts are facts, they don't involve personal feelings. And the fact is that there are fewer cases, probably due to the efficiency of the state commission. And as for the situation in HEP and HZ when you said there would be neither HZ nor HEP if the state commission were to act effectively, there would be, and the situation in these companies and in all others is not as dependent on the work of the state commission as on those who manage these companies. And what's the state of Remetec, I think it's going to be better and better managed because there's going to be less and less of those who'll be mind-blowing as they're managed. And a big step has already been made in this and it is certainly managed much, much more effectively and will only be shown in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45946	Thank you. In the name of... and it is. Then the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45947	Unless I'm gonna let the secretary of state take first or replica before. Dear Maric, it is not a question of my feeling because feeling and attitude are built on facts. I'm talking about what I see. It is impossible for 2007 to be twice the number of complaints related to work compared to 2006. Something happened here. I don't know what happened or I can guess, but I'm sure it's not because people are more educated about public procurement. On the other hand, I did not say that the commission is not working effectively but on the contrary, because of what it is doing effectively, I wanted to expand its cycle of action, to bet that it must have a plan for next year that public companies will process and where it will control the procedures that took place last year. Because what, then, is the name of the Public Procurement Control Commission? Then we could tell the public procurement appeal committee. If it is a matter of public procurement control and then gentlemen, if it is necessary to take another hundred people to the commission, let them go because what pays is certainly less than 13 billion kuna per year as much as Croatia loses, its citizens through corruption and non-transparent behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45948	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary, Honored Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45949	Thank you very much. In order to shorten that part in the final part, here I am taking the liberty of providing further explanations during the debate itself. The directive which is the basis of this law is called the Remedies Directive. Remedies, I'm deliberately speaking the English version because it's a legal remedy. What the European Commission is asking of us, as well as of all Member States, in the European Union, is that we have an independent body where remedies, i.e. the legal remedy, are declared after completion or during one procedure. The State Commission, starting with the Remedies Directive, a directive governing the legal remedy procedure, hence the appeal procedure between the public and private sectors, is doing the job. Our starting base, as well as the conditions for the profession of the president and the conditions for selecting members of the state commission, is based on a directive governing the legal medicine procedure in the event of a procurement procedure. That's the point. This state commission is based on the original directive to resolve complaints, and it is a Sui Genis judicial body, a Sui Genis body of judicial character in the Republic of Croatia, which in the event of a conflict between the two opposing parties only solves on the issue of appeal. In a way, we want to save time to write the amendments. The State Commission, according to its work description and aimed at resolving complaints, is sorry that these complaints are no longer in percentage, but we will get to that number. At this point, it solves only by appeal between the two opposing parties. Other institutions, including my administration, even through prevention, act a priori, ex santa, preventively. We have the State Audit, and let's not forget the State's Attorney's Office. As far as the numbers are concerned, in the meantime reading this statistics, the last number is 637. We've changed the law. I think you personally, Mr. Representative, have commended him. It wasn't too loud, though, but I remember your positive insight. On the basis of that law, a complaint shall be made to the State Commission at each stage of the procurement procedure as from the date of its publication in the electronic notice as soon as possible only when the procedure has been completed. Statistics, 2008. 1020 complaints, 2009. 1422 complaints made. It is precisely by the basis of the Public Procurement Act voted in this House that the increase in complaints compared to the last figure you used is 65%. Here's another way I'd like to just look back at the number you said. It's 12 billion kuna from the central budget. Did you really mean the central budget or in general the total number of 40 billion kuna in public procurement, because of course it's very important to decide. Because the central state doesn't even participate in this figure with its full public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45950	It is next in an individual debate, the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45951	Thank you very much. So corruption takes about 12 and a half billion kuna annually to Croatia. Most of that money was stolen right through the procurement process. Public procurement has certainly become a synonym for corruption robbery. How? Well, the government has made every effort to secure all necessary instruments so this operation can succeed. First of all, the Government appoints the administrations of companies owned by the State, appoints supervisory committees, those which should be controlled by those administrations. An example of a Brodosplit showed that the supervisory authorities were controlling the administration. Not at all! When the scandal broke out, when the robbery was discovered, then Minister Vukelic said so I had no idea, I couldn't follow it, and I didn't understand it too much. I'm so named there, I can't answer for it. The government further proposes and the parliamentary majority supported by the government appoints a state lawyer and appoints a state auditor. And now all the key positions have been set up -- company administrations, boards of directors on these boards, state attorney, state auditor, business can begin. And this job lasts as long as this government lasts, for six years, it lasts me well, 12 and a half billion a year. You can see that at the top of an ice dream and a corrupt robbery. Let's take any of those companies that are now going through the papers. Let's get the HAC. All these tunnel paints, all of that bukobran setting up, all these flares, all these archaeological tests, all that went through the public procurement system. And through each of those jobs, money was stolen. Now what's going to change this bill? Nothing at all, but we're not moving with him, but not by a millimeter. Have we ever had a law? We did. Did we have a commission? We did. First of all, this law is called wrong. What kind of public procurement control? It should be called a law on the Board of Appeal in the public procurement process, because this law is the only one that resolves the issue. We have a commission that handles cases when someone complains. Here, we just heard earlier, so it's so one body so almost with a judicial mandate, that between two bidders decide who's right if someone complains. First of all, there's no control in those who don't complain at all. So now that we're passing the law, let's give him a real name, what we're playing here, what we're eyeing someone, and especially to the European Union on whose request we're changing this law according to its directives. How is this corruption crime revealed? Either that's what journalists do, or that's what unions do. Only by the activities of investigative journalism or trade union activity does the public find out that someone has paid some kind of bukobrans 50 times more than they should have paid, that some steps along the road have paid 174 times what they actually cost, that someone has received painting the tunnel and regularly gets a "Build Fund" even though it is 17-and-a-half times more expensive than the most favourable bidder. That's what the media and the unions find out. It's not revealed by the police or the State's Attorney's Office. And the State's Attorney's Office doesn't reveal! And what the State's Attorney's Office will reveal when the state's attorney is appointed to the Parliament, is named by the parliamentary majority's will on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If that were somehow different, you'd lose one wheel in this whole wide business of taking 12 and a half billion kunas. This law is therefore some kind of alibi for fighting corruption. Now we will boast in front of the European Union, here we are fighting corruption, here we have passed the law. And here's what we're showing through that we're actually trying to fight this corruption. And with this law and without it, everything will be the same. Nothing's gonna get better. Here I am listening to my colleague Maras, so my colleague Jovanovic, they have excellent suggestions. In fact, the Public Procurement Act needs to be amended. Here's a colleague Jovanovic says until we introduce an online auction, nothing will be done. But what do you colleagues think the government doesn't know. And they're not exactly incompetent, just so uninformed that they wouldn't know it would solve the issue of corruption. That's why they don't suggest it. That's why they propose a law like this. Because if they really cared about that corruption, if that robbery had stopped through public procurement, then they would have proposed amendments to that law. Well, we'd like to propose that online auction. Well, at least half of it would've gotten rid of us. Well, that doesn't occur to them. Well, that's quite illusory to expect from this government. If we were to accidentally propose such a law to a colleague of Jovanovic, then let's make an effort, let's write it down. I now tell you what his destiny will be and what the Government's opinion of this law will be. Overruled. It's unacceptable. The government is working on something right now, so in the next two years, by the end of its term, it will offer something to the Parliament. So this is so one little fig leaf, it can't cover the nakedness of the robbery of 12 and a half billion kuna a year through public procurement. And now it's just two words about individual provisions. Here's how the government actually works. He says in the appointment of members of the state commission, that the appointment tender must be published in "The People's Newspaper", and can also be published in the daily press. Well, if the government cared about getting the right experts, then she'd have to write in the daily press to get as many quality people as possible to know that the contest is being called. No, they're going to hide that contest in "The People's Newspaper," God forbid it's published in the daily press, so they wrote that it can and can't, and as soon as it can and can't, it certainly won't. To appoint people by choice in this commission, those who will allow 12 and a half billion a year to continue pouring into private or party pockets. Article 13, the Croatian Parliament, which appoints these members and presidents, says the Croatian Parliament therefore resolves the members of the state commission, while the Government will also announce a tender for the launch of new ones. Well, the government won't wait for the Parliament to resolve these or not. The government thus clearly shows that it wants to keep all ends in hand, that the Parliament is also here a fig leaf, and that the parliamentary majority here will only actually act parliamentaryly, and the government will, in parallel with the request for resolution, already call for a new member. And this law and these provisions, in this small provision, show what the government cares about. Until the public procurement process changes absolutely nothing and that 12 and a half billion kunas are acquired in private pockets, or in the party pocket and these and next year and until the end of the term of office of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45952	Dear Representative, the freedom of speech in the Assembly must be guaranteed and must be guaranteed, but also the responsibility of one who says that he can publicly in this way accuse the government of preparing the law and decisions that will rob 12 and a half billion kuna annually is in the slightest hemlock and irresponsiblely respected MPs. I would ask that we make sure that if someone disagrees with some part of the proposed law, that they propose changes and additions. To propose an amendment, not simply accuse the government without any amendment to help correct the law. It's not responsible. Thank you very much. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45953	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazic, you have said that organised corruption takes 12 and a half billion kuna annually to Croatia. That's not the first thing. There is no official statistics on this, nor can it be established. All societies of the world, including Croatia, have corruption, but so to speak, the statistical data is indeed ridiculous and unserious. And the claim, as you said, that company administrations, company supervisory boards, state auditors and state attorneys make organised corruption is not just a sense finding, it's a dangerous accusation that you're including the SDP, because the SDP has just proposed today's state attorney, and it's just that the SDP has kept the state auditor who is still today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45954	Thank you. Before we proceed with the corrections, I'd like to make a note. The 25th session of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture will be held on 28 January at 13:00 and 30 minutes. Thank you very much. I just didn't say where. 233 Eugen Quaternika Hall on the second floor. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45955	Thank you. I am correcting the incorrect allegations where Mr. Stazic said the State's Attorney's Office does not reveal affairs, criminal acts, but is revealed by journalists and trade unions. That's not true. It was the State's Attorney's Office that revealed your colleague and the mayor of Koprivnica Mršić in the sale of Podravka's resort and filed a criminal charges against the same. Not to mention the other SDP affairs that were so beautifully counted here yesterday by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister who counted here and who didn't exactly like it, but that's just one part of the SDP repertoire of affairs and criminal activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45956	I'd like to ask you, Mr. Representative, so you're not the one who knows how to grade everything. Don't do this, because you have no right. Let the man do his thing. Please leave it alone. We have a further correction of the incorrect allegations, it is the distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45957	Thank you. My colleague, Stazic, that reporter's nickname clearly suits you. So, fellow Stazic declares, says this law is a "wetwin leaf" and so on. for the government, forgetting what the law is called. It's not about the USCOD or the State's Attorney's Office, it's about the members of the commission. In doing so, and it is true that your exposure to the fig leaf is for everything that has begun to happen to you. When it happened to us, then we'll make fun of each other. It happens to you, doesn't it? Forgetting that, for example, the painting of river swimming pools came more than the painting of the construction tunnel, that the resort in Pirovac didn't even need a pre-paint, so it was picked up as well, picked up in Podravka and reselled. So a whole series of things. We know there's a whole series of documentation from HH...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45958	Your Honor, counsel, an incorrect allegation?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45959	I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45960	Thank you. And we have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45961	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Stazic, you said, "This is the law we want to say to the EU that we want to fight corruption and none of that."and that's not true. We're really fighting, this government is fighting corruption. This is just one of the laws that will allow control of precisely that it does not come against corruption. And I'm sorry that in the examples of which you instructed you forgot the word problem "May 3", "Rječka Banka", the Sobol case and the latest case of our distinguished colleague Mršić. You forgot that by accident. ... I forgot him, too. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45962	Let's move on. Single debate, no benching. That's enough throwing away. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, whether we want to or not, we will agree with the conclusion that citizens believe that public procurement is the most lethal for security and for the reputation of state institutions, that simply public procurement is a litter, a litter of corruption. That in times that are particularly difficult and when the largest employer is in a much better time, when the most secure employer is precisely through public procurement of states or units of local self-government, so any segment and level of public authority to deal with these institutions means a straight win at the lot. It's just that winning the lottery is about luck, and that's not what this is about. That it's simply the lucky ones who can deal with the state, who can deal with the local self-government unit. And we all see it, that's what citizens see. That it's mostly more or less the same, especially in local self-government units. And that's one of the biggest problems. Citizens simply realize that there are no bills or innkeepers here and there. What do you do in that sense? How do business with the state, how do business with public authorities make it more transparent? But if this were not just at the level of some impression or perceptions, the experts of the Zagreb Economic Institute who conducted a serious research show that just 57, more than 57% of respondents said they were companies, companies, they were exposed or they had to resort to corruption in order to get jobs in public procurement. And that is why companies have one strong input one strong motive to be closely linked to political structures in government or in certain units of local self-government to get jobs by bribery. How do you end it? In vain, all these national anti-corruption programmes unless things are almost simplified and simply drawn in law. We are forgetting exactly the UN Convention against Corruption, I had the real honour of signing this convention in Merida in 09.12.2003, whose special chapter is on public procurement and public finances management. They're talking about this problem right now. I think the government has forgotten a little about this UN convention that speaks of objective criteria not only in the conditions for participation in public procurement procedures but also in the selection process. So we had recently in the local self-government unit, specifically in Zadar, a trading company that's exactly saying, definitely how much profit a certain company must have. And this is all under, for God's sake, the development of a legal condition from public procurement that speaks of the competitor's financial ability, i.e. in general any competitor. So what are we talking about? So these things happen and nothing happens to anyone. We have a civil-legal convention that we signed back in 2003 of the Council of Europe that talks about the compensation of every citizen who suffered, who was directly affected by corruption. We're talking like we're having some unspeakable dreams because we're doing what here? And that's how the government thinks and here the secretary of state has explained to us that there's no confusion and that's what's devastating. That the State Management Commission that is being installed here will particularly specify its role, conduct an appeal procedure and that it is essentially a court of two parties. So please be nice!? Well, the two parties don't have the powers of their own private interest here, they're not Janko and Marco in front of a court of law who are disposing of their claim whatever they want. That's the problem, that's why we have these problems. Therefore, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement, which is exactly the name, would have to control the public procurement ex offo and when it is not suggested by individual dissatisfaction if they dare to complain at all. Who was talking about it? That's what my colleagues used to talk about. The former director of the State Commission talked about it. That there are little complaints, that a small number of complaints do not talk about the real state of disorder and disturbances in this area. In fact, he said that many don't dare talk about it. For all this, not to repeat. Because she won't get a job and that's something that the government can't say she's not familiar with. That certain ministers and government members may not know about it, but some speak about it. If you're complaining, you won't get a job anymore, and we end up seeing that it's often one networked system of competitors across certain branches of activity when public competitions are announced. That the second most favourable, the one who often performs the works, not the one who is most favourable, as a subcontractor, with a terrible price, did not get the job, did not complain, but he performs the works. After all, that's why there's now an investigation, but then it's an ad hoc case from one case to another. That it is in such proceedings, it is now being investigated because it is considered absolutely unacceptable, but it is necessary in the law to prevent it from being the most favourable person to get the job, and others have done the job, and he has earned 2 million at the job. It's something that's unacceptable. Therefore, it should rightly be able, i.e. to give the power of the state commission, to, under official duty,... because this control is not only being carried out in the interest of a damaged private company, perhaps not always having to be so, or an individual, but in the public interest. In the public interest. Because the public procurement process is precisely an interest in making these jobs as cheap as possible, in doing business as possible. And not that it depends on how certain competitors have agreed and that then the state commission only responds in this case. And that's a serious problem, if the government really thinks, especially at our present time, that we don't have a problem of this nature, then that might be the way it is. But since we know it's a cancer wound, to leave it to a mourner and his courage in such an environment, it's doomed to fail. So, if the government really is serious about getting caught up in the process, then it must leave the possibility that the State Commission will respond by official duty when it considers it necessary, in our situation in many cases. And another thing, which doesn't matter less. Please, the State Commission and the Law are just like that, and who will come into it, so other than numerous conditions, the conditions are in Article 10, of which there are at least 5 years of public procurement. So this job is for those already existing. I'm not saying that there are no honest people who haven't done a good job, but I'm asking you that this job is reserved for them, then why he played something quite different here and a big turn, public advertising, competition, competition, competition, why, why such a show, why such a parade when you have a provision that this job is reserved only for those who are already sitting in public procurement. Please, it was the same as for civil servants or even officials, a parliamentary representative can only be the one who was in one or two terms. That's absurd. So, is that the seriousness then that we're going to deal with this biggest problem? This is the problem, because according to data from European Union countries, these public procurement procedures are 35 billion kuna, i.e. 19.5% of GDP per year, which is the highest in the countries of the region. Exactly the amount of these jobs, the amount of money that we have to be here to hurt cautiously, but equally I have submitted an amendment to Article 10 that such a shameful provision, indeed, which has been reserved for those who wrote it for themselves, and if the Government really thinks, I expect this amendment to be adopted, but also many have said that the State Commission is acting not only on appeal but also on official duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45964	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45965	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a short time to join this debate of the draft law on the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. This is indeed the Law that has partly brought life, which is indeed an important law for the whole country, and especially for the economy. At the end of last year, when we discussed in the Assembly a proposal for this Law, we also concluded that all the comments and suggestions that came from the debate were made to the applicant so that the final proposal of this law could be prepared. References to the proposal for this law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures have been made to the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on European Integration and individual representatives. What is good for most of those remarks and proposals is that the Proposer has incorporated the final text of this Law on which we should adopt a final position. Personally, by accepting useful proposals, I believe that a quality shift has been made in terms of legal and nomotechnical processing and systematicisation of certain provisions, and rationalisation of the text, and repetition has been avoided. This also confirms the fact that the number of articles has been reduced from 37 to 26 and that certain provisions which have been unarranged or unclear are now more precisely defined, thus avoiding their double interpretation. I also believe that it is very well explained why certain proposals are accepted and why others do not, and that there is no need to repeat the reasoning and dissemination of the debate and the adoption of this Law seems to me to be a significant normative and quality shift such as the improvement of the existing legal system and the harmonisation of our legislation with the legislation of the European Union. Furthermore, this Final Proposal defines the State Commission with an extended competence to resolve complaints in the areas of concessions and public private partnerships and clearly stresses certain elements necessary for the functioning of the body as well as for achieving maximum transparency in work. The Commission's competence is extended to initiate infringement proceedings for infringements prescribed by the rules governing the area of public procurement. It also introduces greater transparency in the work of the institution in the light of the time limit for the mandatory publication of decisions made by the state commission, according to complaints. In particular, a provision is introduced under which, within a very short time period, all decisions taken by the State Commission to resolve by appeal are to be published on the websites. In addition, there has been a provision of compensation for the conduct of a concession appeal procedure in a public private partnership which has not been determined so far and which is now becoming a procedural assumption and becomes the revenue of the state budget. Finally, I believe that the debate on this law has been useful and has contributed to the quality of the final bill and I propose that it be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45966	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45967	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A lot has been said so far, but no one has mentioned a public-private partnership with which this state commission also has connections. I want to say a few words about it, because I think there's a lot to be done. At these moments as we speak right in Hvar, there is a tragic situation with Sunny Hvar. You know that back in 2005, it was actually the first time that you entered a public-private partnership. This contract lasts until 2010, that even then it didn't know what it was, but the state promised hills and valleys, and today it was never worse for the employees of Sunny Hvar, and it was personally difficult for them, especially for those who live only by it. Not to mention schooling kids and everything. Recently, the union signed a minimum wage contract by the end of April. They were forced to do so in a certain way, because they had nowhere to be driven against the wall. So at this time, somewhere in January, you averaged about a thousand tourists in Hvar. They're almost gone now. The state shows an interesting lack of interest in doing so at all. So the other day she was a session of the city council, where Mr. Lazukić was invited on behalf of the company, and on behalf of the state, Mr. Duvnjak, who is headed by the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Neither one, nor the other, came there. The seat was interrupted and delayed until they showed up. And I want to remind you that the state still has 30% of solar Hvar. I also asked that question in the House, and I came across the wall of ignoring, as well as the usual denial of any problems. He was then Mr. Polancec's vice-president of the government. He was still talking about the bright future of this dark picture today. Only mortgage burdens on company assets today are 80 million kunas. The state gave 15 million kuna last year. So one loan so you can pay your salary. 25% of those shares in the Croatian Privatisation Fund portfolio were promised, amounting to 7 to 9 billion euros. But you see no solution. Hvar is still in a tragic situation. And which is also interesting, the Croatian public and not the very people who are the biggest victims of it, but all of us in Croatia because it was some property created by this community no one is familiar with the 2005 contract fully with the public-private partnership contract. He's still wrapped up in a veil of secrets. And when that Luxenburg Orco group came, then I say no one knew what it was about. I guess people knew some in the government who came and went from the government, so they're going somewhere, who knows where life will take them, to what places. But it still doesn't reveal what it says until the end of that contract. The great promises that were offered, they lost their glow, so there was only one bitter taste left. That's why I expect something to be done on this plan, that the biggest hotel company, which was just "Sun-Hvar," will recover. Klada "Orco Group" entered the public-private partnership in 2005 then the company, the company had 285,000 overnight stays a year. Immediately a year after that, the number of nights fell by 101 thousand, so in 2008, it went further down or the shot that would have been said in Dalmatia. I've tried to alarm at least this Assembly public here with a report of the FINA, so a state-owned, reliable institution, where then "Sunished Hvar" is classified in the lowest class of ratings. It said that business co-operation with Sunny Hvar was very insecure with the great possibility of defaulting in payment. It didn't get anyone too excited in the government. And I say once again, the people in Hvar and Hvar and that company have become the biggest victims. I expect from you Madam Secretary of State because you defend this proposal, that some things change here, that this state commission will also affect what is happening in the area of a public-private partnership that I obviously don't know and what I would call it, end up in a dead end in one dead end. The victims are there, the recovery is not seen, but what remains of me as a parliamentary representative and citizens of Croatia and residents of Dalmatia is startling that so to say one indifference which is also manifested by the government this time by Mr. Duvnjak not coming to the city council session, and these people have rightly interrupted that session and are waiting for a representative of the fund to come, so the country that still holds 30% of the ownership of "Sunhan Hvar". That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45968	Your Honor, you've gone a little off topic. But please, let's stick to the subject. I know there's a lot of need to say, but let's stick to the subject. I haven't interrupted you, but you need to stick to the subject. That's why we have the agenda. It's the Honorable representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45969	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to try exactly what the vice president said and stick to the subject and that's the final draft of the law on the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. Note, the State Commission was founded by the Law on Public Procurement of 2001 and was established by the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures as early as 2003. The objective was and remained to establish a transparent and quality public procurement control system through the establishment of a state body situated between administrative and judicial authorities. The commission itself has no ability to judge, condemn and carry out such actions. In accordance with the strategy for the development of the public procurement system of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on concessions and the Law on public-private partnership were adopted. Under the provisions of those laws, the powers of the state commission are also extended to decision-making in accordance with complaints and in these proceedings, and it is necessary to regulate more clearly this law the rights and obligations of this institution, which is also the basic reason for the law we are discussing today. This final proposal defines the State Commission with an extended competence to resolve complaints in the areas of concessions and public-private partnerships. Therefore, to resolve complaints, just as in the case of public procurement and to clearly highlight certain elements necessary for the functioning of the body but also to achieve maximum transparency in work. Jurisdiction shall also be extended to the launch of infringement proceedings, which is new for infringements prescribed by the regulations governing the area of public procurement. It also seeks to introduce greater transparency in the work of the institution in terms of setting a deadline for mandatory publication of decisions made by the State Commission on complaints, and these are all issues forming precisely this law, regardless of what the debate of individual colleagues is going in a completely different direction. Finally, with the support of this law, I hope that the state commission will succeed in doing the new jobs which, by adopting this law, become an integral part of the work cycle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45970	Thank you. It's our guest, Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45971	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Here, allow a few words from my side about this topic which is really important and which has been important in these ten years since 2001 and beyond since the really important shifts were made also has an important impact on the development of the economy and how political, social and economic relations in Croatia at all. I am a little sad that, in the context of the debate so far, a large part of them has been reduced especially and exclusively to political messages often without arguments and with heavy accusations of millions or billions of damages done in such proceedings, and I dare say a lot of people involved in this process, except for the large companies themselves, who have been apostrophe in the largest number of cases in the public procurement system, a large part of local self-government, regional administration, municipalities and cities is involved. And we really need to talk then in the context of both this commission and that direction. We will remember what little we know about these public procurements that in 2001 we have a Public Procurement Office which is through its own procedures and then ultimately in the problems that have been related to the complaints came up, that our commission dares to say that there was indeed a lot of disagreement and conflict between the Public Procurement Office and the State Commission and the inability of timely information. It is also important to say here to commend the competent ministry of activities related to the preparation and implementation of the education of public procurement participants, which means that they must today be electronically written and that they must be familiar with the public procurement system as an important step relative to the time back ten years. What did it bring? It led to the fact that in the very process of obtaining a good part of the complaint and the smaller part because the people involved in the conduct of public procurement were further educated and thus avoided a good part of the complaint which was precisely the state commission which respected these complaints were also of a procedural nature, and that is why this education is a valuable and important step. After that, it may also be important to say that, instead of the Public Procurement Office today, there is a whole range of tasks for public procurement, which, apart from what I have said so far, is the preparation and implementation of the participants’ own education in the procurement process, so as to contribute significantly to the reduction of possible complaints and to the completion of tenders. So let me just say that, above all, it is a preventive and instructive activity in the sense that it may request from the contracting authority public procurement at any time of the examination, to give an opinion on irregularities in the course of the procedure and, during the course of the procedure, to significantly direct the course of procurement in any other form. Also, initiate legal protection proceedings against the State Commission and, in order to protect the public interest, immediately refer to this State Commission. Furthermore, it acts on the development of the public procurement system itself but can also file a procedure and request for the initiation of the infringement procedure, but in the public procurement process itself. So, these just a few data and procedures are very important to contribute to entering, in the course of public procurement itself, a single course that is significantly different from what it is and wants to show, because I really want to say here that public procurement and implementation systems in the largest number of bodies that carry out correct, fair and as such I want to stress it here. But as a rule, we're having a discussion right now, and I find that every grain has a weed in it. It's a very pricey segment. Whoever becomes a public procurement system knows that in the programme and before public procurement goes into the process there is a public procurement plan that the competent authorities of both companies and local self-government, cities and municipalities have accepted that there is a plan price that is made according to certain costs as taxes. And in the public procurement process, any price specified, which is higher than that planned price, automatically means the cancellation of the tender. Allow me two more, three sentences related to other life problems that are related to the procurement procedure that is not said about. So in particular, which means when the public procurement process passes the lowest price that is far the lowest of others as such, and we know that exactly the price is the most important element in the process and decision-making process, when we come to the knowledge that at these prices it is almost impossible to do, and it is difficult to just take the procedure and not choose such a bidder, because in that case there is an automatic cancellation of public procurement, and then we are not talking about social damage that is significantly delayed through the budgets in local self-government units by certain important procedures in the realisation of public procurement. And one more thing, I'm using a term called a professional complainant. It would be interesting, I will insist that in one of the analyses of the State Commission in the procedure of public procurement control there are companies and legal entities, not agreeing but having so many extensive professional teams of people working in public procurement that they are literally ready, able to almost cancel out any public tender and also because of the banal topics. There are exactly certain categories which are why the public tender is annulled, but if you come into a situation where you add up a few minor injuries, then it is the easiest way for the state commission to cancel the tender, thus paving out a certain weight and potential mark that it has acted incorrectly, and in many cases, it has led to a situation that we cannot make certain requests or certain tasks through our budgets and other acts through such public procurement for years. And to finally finish, something about the state commission itself, I'm glad, and I'm not going and I'm not talking about individual acts and individual points, that a public debate instrument has been introduced on the state commission at the time that it was backwards. As a rule, there was no such thing as dry data that you were able to submit through the complaint was not in fact a general possibility for the institution to face opinions and, in fact, to substantiate certain ones, I dare say both legal and human components which contribute to the fact that maybe this particular public procurement and a certain decision should not have been made. So, the purpose and conclusion of this debate is that its course and procedure from education to final decision-making is extremely complex and that it greatly and often exceeds that of the day-to-day policy on public procurement that we do not flee from, but requires that the preparedness of people who participate on the one hand, but on the other hand the understanding of people sitting in those bodies and who need to make decisions concerning the cancellation of competitions, because in a large part of the cases it is also about the means of a wider social community which, in this way, often and irrevocably goes to waste. Thank you. And I support the proposal, the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45972	Thank you. Now it's the honorary representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45973	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. Here in this, I hope no more than 5 minutes of exposure, pointing to the importance of this law, given that it concerns its content in the control of the availability of public money that Dr. Maric here said is about 40 billion kuna a year, which I believe is also the fact that a lot of money leaks in that amount, I will not say what part, but I can also trust my colleagues Jovanovic that these are large billions of kunas because he deals with, working in the Anti-Corruption Council as president, that job. What I mean to say is that the change in the management mode that is now on the stage of public enterprises where billions are turned and where criminal proceedings are on the scene is certainly good to speak and to do, more importantly, and to change the way in which they are being obtained. Public procurement control is the subject of this law, and quite precisely speaking of resolving complaints in public procurement procedures. I will only mention two examples of what I met myself in daily newspapers, and then I will go to the point, to the law itself, because I have submitted three amendments, which is that in one newspaper I found recently in one environment, in northwestern Croatia, after two tenders that have failed, in third, it is as always puts that the company that has to deal with building one facility must meet the condition that there are 5 million kunas in the past year. It's a very strange condition. I'm mentioning him here just because the ministry's representatives are sitting here. And I saw another contest, very interesting too, says the opening... It's not public, it's public procurement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't understand that, and I probably don't know exactly what I need to know about it, so I'm surprised or this is inadmissible. As far as the concrete bill itself is concerned, as I have submitted three amendments, then I will talk about it, one amendment concerns the conditions that members of the State Commission should have to control public procurement procedures in order to even compete for this job, because it is said to be not a duty, then it is a job, which is these 10 years of work experience and 5 years of work experience in the context of public procurement and behaviour. I agree with my colleague, Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic, that this condition is unnecessary, this second. Why? Because indeed, as it is actually a very responsible administrative procedure, it deprives all those capable people who, as judges, are here for the president and vice president and this condition, are required to have a judicial exam so that the judge is at least 6 years old or is a state or deputy state attorney at a certain level for 6 years. They're just making it impossible. These people, therefore, these judges, these lawyers make the ultimate decisions by working in a court of law, deciding on people's fates, deciding whether or not they're going to go now or not to go to jail, and how much punishment they're going to be when they act illegally in public procurement proceedings. So why wouldn't it be suggested here that the condition be left behind, but of course the state commission uses expert services. Same as the court. When a judge doesn't know something or a council of judges, then he takes a court expert in the specialized area, he simply does the job to the end using expertise. But when it's more concrete, since I've already been taught that when you suggest something that's quite rational and it doesn't go through with it, then I suggested a compromise, which is that at the age of 10, the work experience is eight years, and at the age of five, it's three years. I'm aware of that compromise, but here's hoping something will help. As far as this is concerned, another amendment, and as far as Article 14 is concerned, is more clearly precise, I would say its content unlike that, so how decisions are made. So this is where decisions are said to be taken at the session by most of the members of the state commission. I made it quite clear. You'll see that there are no doubts here there are certain doubts. It's the second amendment. And the third amendment was offered by exposition of fellow Stazic. It's the amendment that's being multiplied, he couldn't stand it. I respect the objection made by the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Jarnjak because he said we are now in front of the final proposal of the law and we need to decide on it, give the amendment, do not just criticise it. Here I then submitted an amendment to Article 9 to be mandatory with a tender to be published in the "National Journal" for the selection of members of the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure to be made compulsory in three national journals. Here, so I hope these amendments will be accepted. In that sense, I support the step made by this law in relation to the existing one. I know he could've been better, but here we go to meet the changes in these options as they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45974	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45975	When you talk to a colleague about getting jobs from bidders with the most favourable price, it is exactly the biggest problem that has also caused the attention of all European Union countries who want to jump this one themselves. Because the fact is that after getting a job as the best bidder with the best price, the cheapest, the lowest price is later negotiated by businesses and new prices and no one controls it alive anymore. The government has now announced that just in order to combat corruption, it will be the obligation of all state-owned companies or those of the state to publish such tenders, as well as who received the jobs. But we should take a step further, therefore, because we saw that even the one who gets the most favourable offer, who gets the job with the most favourable offer, that is, the cheapest price for the country to end up in the country or the local self-government unit, cost almost the most because these subsequent deals are negotiated and there is nothing to say about that price and prices are negotiated without any competition. It would therefore be appropriate, or necessary to monitor the execution of that contract and everything that has been done in the negotiation of subsequent certain jobs that may be minor due to the nature of the business, but not in this way that they become a liability. I would also like to say one more thing when you have already touched this issue of handling the appeal procedure and teaching what I have said and what you are now touching is not only the condition that there must be people who have already worked and had 5 years of experience in public procurement, but also, but if the complainant does not contribute to the evidence that he has paid the fee that the procedure will be suspended. If the State does not consider that these public procurement procedures are not done in the public interest, it will not, but will lead these proceedings not only by appeal but also by ex-sofo, and in official duty later in the executive procedure, to charge its fee. That's what a serious country does.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45976	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is up to the honourable representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45977	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I think that in this bill that contains improvements, it is crucial that what he stated on behalf of the club Josip Leko when he spoke about the impartiality of the State Public Procurement Commission whose members he appointed the Government for five years. All things in this country are good if they are done by honest and responsible people and in the best of intentions. However, they can become a place for great manipulation if they are implemented in a way that bypasses the law, i.e. that certain provisions of the law itself are interpreted in a way that does not go in the direction of Croatian citizens, i.e. does not go in transparent spending of funds. I will remind you that in 2004, it was marked by the arrival and the new governments of two key things. One is breaking up stand by arrangement with the IMF. However, there was also an end to the obligation of the contract, i.e. to display papers to the IMF itself by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for all relevant processes in this country. And the second thing is to amend the Public Procurement Act which then made it possible for a direct contract already after the first procurement procedure. In a certain part of the case, it has freed and facilitated the possibility of public procurement, but in the other large part it has created a strong space for manipulation, i.e. for I will say the circumvention of the law and the conclusion of a direct contract with those whose works, i.e. the value of the works, were far more expensive. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Transparency International Public Procurement report also raises 25% in Croatia. 25% is big money. 12 and a half billion kunas of everything my predecessors have repeated that can be spent much better on the annual level. 12 and a half billion kuna that is lost annually to the public procurement process in all parts, means with all the social incoms is approximately at the annual level of 5 Pelješke bridges that are not made, 3 highways Zagreb-Sisak which are not made, 4 Podravska highways that are not built, 2 highways Ploče-Dubrovnik which are not built, 25 years of free textbooks without which the students remain 500 schools and kindergartens that will not be built. The 12 billion kuna at the annual level is the items. What is still to be noted when it comes to public procurement is that it and public enterprises were skillfully bypassed by public companies, of course, not according to the Law on Commercial Companies, having the obligation to make public procurement in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement, but by the basis of the Law on Commercial Companies, which greatly increased the space for manipulation, which shows today many of the public affairs in state-owned public enterprises are coming out, not to be listed by HEP, HAC, various affairs that shake up every day the Croatian public and that have allowed Croatian citizens to have fewer. And that is why, in some ways, the lack of money in the state budget, as well as in public enterprises, is a loss, i.e. a weaker result of public enterprises for as much as 2 billion kuna compared to last year directly and the consequences of such non-transparent purchases. 25% more expensive are paid by Croatian citizens. However, there are also positive examples, and this is what Croatia should do, and follow best practices, because in developed countries better to wolf worse, and not worse, that is, not to say, there is a promotion, but a promotion, and that is how the city of Rijeka, in particular here, must mention, collecting public procurement that ultimately turns out to be 30% to 40% cheaper because the offer takes all day, and it is being attended by competitors through a public tender that can change their offers all day. Finally, it turns out that the average work, compared to others, turns out to be 30% cheaper. It's just one example, a bright example that should be followed. What is still to be said in the process of adopting this law is what can be interpreted and the law itself can be interpreted, if it is stuck to the most important instance, and in this country this instance is the judiciary, objectively, effectively, everything the Croatian State is calling out for, and it concerns a few articles that include, for example. Infringement provisions, in Article 22, where a fine that runs even in the range of 50 thousand to millions of kunas will be punishable for a violation of a legal person or units of local and regional self-government which, contrary to the provisions of Article 4 which states that no impact may be imposed on the State Commission. It also provides for a fine from 10 thousand to 100 thousand kuna for natural persons. For the high value of works, for procurements which have a significant impact on the budget of the unit of local self-government, but also on the budgets of the ministries, i.e. certain items in public procurement ministries, these ranges are definitely nowhere in detail regulated and can happen for 50,000 kunas, I only state that if the court decides to do so, that legal person, or that firm that affects a job that is a multi-million-dollar job. So with 50 thousand kunas as provided for by this law, you can punish a company that affects a multimillion-dollar business, which is definitely too little. Of course, it all depends on how the law is interpreted, or how the competent court does when the trial closes the case, but it is definitely something where it is not elaborated in detail. So maybe you should consider introducing it as an item and the value of the works. It is now subject to what should be offered some improvement. And in the end, I will say, I think it is very important, perhaps even most important, especially in the midst of a major indifference that plagues the Croatian economy, which is climbing for legal persons and craftsmen to more than 25 billion, 25.7 billion finally with December 2009, which concerns outstanding claims from companies and craftsmen. The opposition clubs have sent two proposals, and it is related to public procurement, it is related to procurement. One is that the state, state-owned public enterprises, will immediately settle their obligations towards the private and real sector, and the other is not to be ordered until the old one has nothing to pay with. From there and a great emphasis on controlling public procurement itself, and from there a great emphasis on what is happening to this indifference. Because if the state is going to act as units of local self-government, state-owned companies, that they will order without control and without plan, as they have ordered so far, we will become basically hostages, let's say more expensive public procurement, which in the last few years has culminated, and in any case not to mention that it is not good, but we have now seen and we have witnessed that this becomes a strong weight around the neck of the Croatian economy because these companies directly cover more than 70,000 people who work, not to mention that in the past year, and in part, because of the individence of 73 thousand people lost their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45978	Thank you. Two corrections, one replica. First Mrs. Zastava Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague Bernardic said in his debate and reiterated that in the process of public procurement, he was getting lost from the budget of 12 and a half billion. Well, I think it's your idea and yours, but if that's true, it's a colleague Bernardic that it certainly loses most in those, in the alleged 12 and a half billion in the City of Zagreb, because the City of Zagreb as far as public procurement is concerned, the most participatory part of it. So you see how many kindergartens would be made in Bezovica. None of them are made. And you're 10 years SDP, you run the City of Zagreb. Secondly, only one information, one drop in the waterfall regarding the City of Zagreb, that one bus stop costs 100 thousand kuna. A colleague, Bernardic, three plastics and a piece of Roswell. Now, these are the things that you've been going around all the time. But I ask you, since you are also one of the leaders in the City of Zagreb, that you should deal with it. It would be easier for us to live in the City of Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45980	Thank you. Mr. Agent Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45981	Mr. Vice President. Well, I would like to correct the inaccuracy of Mr Bernardic, who stressed that the city of Rijeka has bids below 30% in public competitions than elsewhere. That's not true. I live in the Primorian-Gorski County. I was mayor of Vrbovska for three terms. I followed the competitions and I know who gets most of the jobs in the Primorje-Gorski County and I can argue the opposite that these tenders and these prices are 30% more than those. Because in order for you to prove that thesis, then you have to know the average prices for the same kind of work, from the plumbing, the sewers and the rest, and then you could claim to prove it by the figures, you're doing it on a flat-rate basis, it's not true, I can prove it with numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45982	Replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45983	Thank you. I will rephrase my colleague Bernardic, but actually rely on what he has corrected the incorrect quote of a HDZ colleague who, of course, spoke completely wrong, completely wrong, completely flat-out. I invite him to perform a press conference together where I will prove to him that there are huge savings in public procurement in Rijeka. The river is really the first one in Croatia to take public procurement through the portal... and Rijeka has therefore saved huge money and has shown that corruption is always with power. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] If the government is fair, transparent and responsible then corruption is gone. That's why in the River of Corruption there is no, because in the river SDP wins...... And you shut it down, you shut it down. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] You lose 19 years, you lose 100 more. The river will be the first in Croatia to introduce an online auction that has been proven in the world to cost between 17% and 30%. In Rijeka, not because of corruption, but because the portal sees prices fall and anyone can lower the price. That's why Rijeka is the most transparent city and fellow Mance don't lie here in the Assembly the information you're talking about. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45984	Replication response, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45985	Well, my colleague Jovanovic, of course, I didn't say it by heart. I've been informed before. I think it's a good thing we've all been informed before, so I've been informed before and this is whose report is about 12 and a half billion. The report is Transparency International, so it's better if we get information before there's no misunderstanding. As for what you said and about transparency, it is definitely a big concern in public enterprises, because we can talk about municipal enterprises of any city but should bear in mind that public companies such as HAC, such as "Croatian Forests", such as "Croatian Waters", such as "HEP", such as "Croatian Roads" are far bigger and stronger financially than any city's municipal enterprise. Although in some town, as is likely in Rijeka, Zagreb, in Koprivnica, in some cities where the procurement system is united, the costs have been tried to be reduced I should note that the main part of the cake of these 12 billion just comes from these large companies where it is in some way difficult to verify precisely because it is not even covered by the Public Procurement Act but the Law on Commercial Companies. That's the key I was just talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45986	The Health and Social Care Committee reminds us that it organized the Round Table – promoting the prevention of breast cancer at 13.30 p.m. in Josip Šokčević's hall today and invites all representatives and representatives to join the work of the Round Table today at 13:30 p.m. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45987	Honored Mr. Vice President, honored Madam Secretary of State with fellow Members, and especially respected colleagues and colleagues. I absolutely support the position that many colleagues and colleagues have expressed in many previous discussions that the public procurement system should be much, much more transparent than it is so far. And in this context, here's fellow Maras and his idea of a public procurement portal by reputation in the way it's done in the United States is an extremely bright example, so then the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures will have much less to do. Unfortunately, we are witnessing numerous situations when the procurement process is challenged by a complaint from dissatisfied suppliers who often complain only to complain and to essentially contest the competition at the formal level and that it has already become known that category of professional complainants. However, I would like to say a few words about the problem which in the most direct way connects the Public Procurement Act, then the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, which is the subject of the current debate and the Law on Technical Requirements for Products and the Assessment of Consistency, which is the next item of the agenda of today's Assembly session. Namely, accredited conformity assessment bodies, let us read test and competent laboratories, as a rule, should satisfy and demonstrate compliance of their work and their management procedures with one of the international standards. For example, norm 17 thousand 25 for accreditation of test laboratories or norms 15 thousand 189 for accreditation of medical and bio-medical laboratories etc. All these standards explicitly require that such accredited bodies,... bodies for conformity assessment, test laboratories, moderate laboratories, call it what we want, have policies and procedures to evaluate suppliers. This is one of the extremely subtle instruments that the International Community is through the European Accreditation Co-operation i.e. EA and... , i.e. the International Accreditation Co-operation developed as one of the important tools for greater transparency in public procurement procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, these standards require that laboratories value suppliers and include various criteria of which the quality criterion is most important, thus allowing them to obtain not necessarily the cheapest products but the best, the most qualitative ones that meet certain requirements that these laboratories need. I don't know how familiar the commission is with explicit expressions in these international norms, but I particularly welcome article 12 of this Law which says that a member of the State Commission is obliged to improve professionally. Although it is not quite clear in which way and which they must give objective evidence that in practice these articles satisfy. I guess the authorities of the state administration will still be in charge of the commission's work every so much will require them to give them some evidence of their improvement and lifelong education. Of course, the Law cannot prescribe educational content either, but I sincerely hope that this debate will offer members of the Commission to pay greater attention to the segment of technical legislation and the requirements of international norms in their work. The Croatian Education Committee will be proposed by the credit rating agency to organise for Croatian accreditation agency and technical boards of conformity assessment bodies in the pact. One seminar that will refer to the requirements of norms, purchases of services and supplies in terms of this technical legislation for all standards for which the Croatian accreditation agency has established accreditation schemes. Moreover, I will propose that representatives of this Commission be invited to this seminar. Unfortunately, as an appraiser, I had often seen that the process of public procurement is often mystified, so it goes through a line of less resistance, obtaining non-quality services and supplies, which is therefore an open dam for the leak of budget money. Here, in the hope that this debate of mine that directly linked two perhaps seemingly incompatible laws may have helped us to be more efficient and transparent in the public procurement process in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45988	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Tamara Obradović-Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wanted, of course, to answer a few questions, but the honourable MPs who asked these questions do not have, and I believe there will be opportunities and interest in what details are within the public procurement. What I would like to say and must say is back to what the commission is not doing, the commission is an appeal body, it decides in the appeal procedure. I was hoping that we would at least agree on what is a legal remedy and when a legal remedy is declared, this did not go hand in hand, therefore a kind request to pass on the next quote of the "remedis direct" i.e. the legal remedy directive. It is necessary for Member States to ensure and have an effective and rapid remedy against decisions made by contracting authorities and I will leave the rest of the quotations omitted. This is a taste of the state commission decides in the legal protection procedure through the legal remedy declared. But on the trail of a truly constructive proposal and, of course, the fact that there must be a stronger synergy between all institutions that are auditing among other things and public procurement processes, I suggest that more of my ministry impose perhaps stronger dynamics or greater concentration on the control of public procurement procedures in this preventive part. As a result of that preventive part, I once had the opportunity to present on the Council chaired by Dr. Jovanovic, there were actually presented complete activities of the government's public procurement system, i.e. the Ministry of Economy, I hope to be re-invited to the Committee and present the part relating to prevention and the 83 cases for the last 10 months of this year on several of our side of the defendants' proposals and irregularities that led to certain proceedings being dropped. Here, on the side of the government, by the Ministry and me as responsible for the public procurement system, if I'm going to have a chance, I'm going to come and present a really big effort to end corruption. In that part, the government's efforts to contribute through centralised procurement to the fight against corruption to introduce even more transparency in public procurement procedures, also at its level, and centralised procurement through a new central body will include a catalogue portal. As regards e-procurement, i.e. e-procurements, e-auctions, in our Ministry, the basis of the Public Procurement Act, which has been possible for two years now, has allowed contracting authorities and private entrepreneurs with a commercial interest to establish e-portals for auctioning and e-procurement. So there's no obstacle. The question is whether there is a commercial interest on the one hand and on the other to make such portals. We run two projects one is electronic procurement, the other is an electronic auction, they were registered to the European Union last year for IPA financing since 2010, I hope that this project proposal will also pass us by the European Union. Regarding the 12 billion, indeed, someone has said and asked the question of the data itself, but I have not heard the answer or understood what those 12 billion apply to, since I am here in some way defending the colours of the central budget, according to the absolute last statistics we have in the period 1.1. 2009 and 1. 1. In 2010, the total value of public procurement is €39.5 billion, out of which 10.15% of the funds spent on public procurement. Please be heard, the central budget participates in the total value of public procurement of HRK 39.5 billion with 10.15%, I'm not a typical mathematician, but that's about barely 4 billion kuna. I thank you for all your remarks, for your discussions. The common goal is to have a good institution that works well, which has no mercy on anyone who is in front of it in terms of revising his or her procedure, and that must be the thought of a guide in joint work. There are good amendments, on one article even a few. Maybe even they're a little contradictory to each other. We'll have to see which of the good amendments we'll accept. Open in that part we are absolutely for everything that improves this text, I think we did it through working together on several laws and proved it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45990	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45991	Thank you very much. Just do the data synchronization then. The information I gave 45 billion stands on the Ministry of Economy's pages of a document signed by former Minister Polancec, so if the information that you have now provided is correct 39 then correct the document that you have published, which states that 45 billion public procurement is in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45992	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45993	We're going to vote on the revised laws. First, the Final Proposal for a Law on the State Commission to Control Public Procurement Procedures, that is second reading, P.Z.E. Number 429, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The review of the amendments is divided into benches. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Ms Tajana Kesic Sapic, State Secretary. First representatives Gordan Maras and Davor Bernardić, in Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45994	The amendment is not accepted with the following explanation, the fundamental competence of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures is not defined by this law, but by the public procurement law, which stipulates that the State Commission is responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement procedures. That jurisdiction of resolution shall be based on the provisions of the relevant Directive 66. 2007 The European Communities, which requires Member States to ensure and make available a quick and effective remedy against decisions taken by the contracting authorities aimed at protecting the economic and legal interests of interested economic operators. Their interest is protected solely on the basis of... complaints that economic operators may file to the State Commission at all stages of the procurement process as well as after its completion. However, in addition to that control of public procurement procedures, it is ensured through other mechanisms such as supervision through the provision of preventively instructive activities on the application of the Public Procurement Act and sublegal rules in the field of public procurement carried out by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and for the purpose of preventing or eliminating irregularities in public procurement procedures. This supervision shall be carried out during the duration of the procurement procedure and two years after its completion, and after that period, on the basis of requests by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, and by the regular authorities. I would also like to point out to my colleagues that this Monday, in Brussels, technical consultations have been conducted on which this proposed possibility has been discussed, but the competent general administration has removed the possibility of the appeal body also self-initiating ex ante control.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45995	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45996	Thank you very much. Our amendment went to the Commission to get the control section along with this complaint, and I am convinced that Europe would not mind raising the standard scale if it were something more. Let us take an example, so despite this refusal, we ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45997	Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. The second amendment, Mr Boris Šprem, to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45998	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u45999	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Third Amendment of Representative Goran Maric to Article 10
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46000	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46001	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 4th Amendment of Representative Boris Šprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46002	It is not accepted, with the reason that the amendment is partially covered by Mr Goran Maric's accepted amendment to the same article.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46003	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46004	Thank you very much. First of all, I thank you for accepting, not for me, but for the quality of the work this amendment has done before. But this is about wanting to reduce the work experience of 10 to 8 and this is about having a work experience, at all one experience and working experience in the public procurement process, from 5 to 3 but with one specific person, and you didn't accept it, which is very important that there is no man or woman just experience, so they say that man then thinks, of course, that woman is human. Then it's just a man. So, that man, you suggest the following, so here it says that candidate or candidate should have experience in public procurement for 3 years, and I have suggested not only in public procurement but in these other jobs such as concessions, choosing a private partner in projects of public private partnership, why man would not have experience in this area. That's why I disagree with the explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46005	We are voting on a part of the amendment that has not been accepted. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 5. Amendment of MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović to Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46006	This amendment shall not be accepted for the reason why the amendment of Mr Maric's representative to the same article which covers this amendment in substance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46007	Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46008	When we propose anti-corruption laws, we must not lie, it doesn't matter, what counterpart Maric suggested compared to what I suggest. I ask that corruption be contained politically, above all, in the laws, this is an eclectic example of corruption in the law. So, the state commission will oversee, fight corruption if everything was okay, and it wants to provide itself with personnel that are already in public procurement procedures. So, counterpart Maric generally asked for a profession, whether lawyers or these other members of the economy who worked in the profession. But you're asking that these jobs have been done, please, somewhere in the state commission, in the public procurement process. So who are the people, the ones who are already there, so who are you making a fool of? Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46009	Some words could be avoided. You could avoid it, and I'm asking you all to avoid it, to make it easier for all of us. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 6th Amendment of Representative Boris Šprem to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46010	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46011	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 7th Amendment of Representatives Gordan Maras and Davor Bernardic to Article 19
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46012	The amendment shall not be accepted, subject to the reasons for the amendments to Article 19(3), in substance and shall follow the amendments submitted by the legislators to Article 2. The final draft law, since the applicant does not accept amendments to Article 2 or this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46013	Mr. Representative. This amendment has been withdrawn. 8th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 21
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46014	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46015	Sustained. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 9th of the same committee on Article 25?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46016	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46017	The acceptance shall become an integral part of the proposal. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Please, let's get involved and vote? The result? The law was adopted by a majority of 103 votes in favour, four abstentions and one against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46018	We're moving on to the next point. - Final bill on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 362 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, European integration and the economy. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Tamara Obradović Mazal will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46019	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The final proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and a conformity assessment is before us. This law stems from negotiating Chapter 1 – Freedom of movement of goods and with great satisfaction and as a negotiator in this chapter and also a negotiator in the chapter – Public procurement can report that today we will officially send our papers, regular documents to close this particular chapter – Freedom of movement of goods. All the efforts we have made and this law is one of these European Commissions that we have met the closing criteria and today is a special day as regards presentation and this law. We had this law in our first reading. It is, of course, an additional takeover of the acquis. Consultations with the State Inspectorate, with all competent authorities, with resolutions and sectors from which goods are to be placed on the market, which must be subject to technical requirements, which pass through the inspection of the State Inspectorate, or which is placed on the market and in synergy with consumers, are all criteria that have been balanced both with them and with the European Commission of course. It's just a brief overview of the sector that we're dealing with. This law applies to sectors covering products such as elevators, machines, electrical appliances, low voltage equipment, aerosol sprayers, shoe textiles, crystal glass, protective equipment and the like. Therefore, it was very demanding under this roof law to classify absolutely all sectors but I think we have done it for another reading and success. What is important is that we have developed the obligations of the economic operators themselves, meaning the manufacturer, the importer, the distributor of the authorised representative, that we have prescribed additional and developed obligations concerning technical documentation, declarations of conformity, packaging, information on the product or packaging itself, and of course the way that this information will be presented. We have clearly prescribed obligations which must be subject to an authorised representative, importer, distributor but also to the process of identifying the economic operator itself. What is important, what is important for the freedom of movement of goods between us and the European market and in the conditions of membership in the European Union, is that this law prescribes the mutual and validity of all compliance documents issued abroad, which will also apply to the Republic of Croatia, both abroad and abroad. This is and this law is in some way also a preparation for Croatian goods which, one day when we enter the European Union, will have a CE mark, so not C as it now has but a full European CE mark. And what I would especially point out is stronger inspection supervision of the State Inspector and the costs of the inspection process itself. Here, since it's about the second reading, that we had a chance to discuss this law in the first reading I gave a brief overview of those changes that we made in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46020	Thank you. The committee's reporters? Resume session is at 3:00. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, Mr Zdenko Franic. We're continuing the session. The SDP representative club, Mr Zdenko Franić, discussed the proposal for a final Act on Technical requirements for production and conformity assessment. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46022	Dear Mr. Vice President, ma'am... with associates, honored colleagues and fellow MPs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here is a law of a rather demanding name, a law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment. A very complicated title, but the law that the Republic of Croatia is on its way to the European Union is very much needed and it is really good that here is the Croatian Parliament, and we are bringing it in because of compliance with the latest guidelines of the European Union. And first, let me say that the SDP club will support this law with pleasure. The Member States of the European Union, as well as the candidate countries for the European Union in the accession process, must take on technical regulations in their national legislation, as well as harmonised European standards, which should be adopted as national norms, and establish and maintain a system of infrastructure and quality based on those rules and laws. This is also the case with Article 73 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Stabilisation and Association Agreements as a mechanism for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which explicitly states that the Republic of Croatia should promote the use of technical regulations of the Community, European norms, as well as procedures for testing and conformity assessments, and encourage the development of quality infrastructures, normisation, measurement, authorisation and conformity assessment. This regarding technical requirements for products placed on the Croatian market, this law prescribs technical requirements and prescribes the obligations of economic operators. So it also prescribes the obligations of the manufacturer. Therefore, manufacturers placing the product on the market are obliged to draw up technical documentation, draw up a declaration of conformity, which means to present evidence, it is obvious that this product is made in accordance with the guidelines and legal, legislation of the European Union. The manufacturer must also prescribe the period during which that technical documentation must be kept and the examination of the product sample must be carried out to show that it is indeed as declared in the declaration of conformity. To keep a book of complaints about non-compliant products and to withdraw those products, however they may be, to mark the manufacturer on the product, packaging, a document that monitors and implements the return of non-compliant products from the market, i.e. ensure the process of withdrawing the product, of course on its own cost. So that's all that's being propagated and by consumer protection associations and that's all we expect is normal, but unfortunately it's not that normal. And unfortunately for disindustrialisation and consequently insufficient production in the Republic of Croatia, it may be even more important that this law also prescribes the obligations of importers who place products on the market of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this law prescribes that these products must be consistent with the requirements of the acquis, and with legal norms, technical legislation of the European Union. Therefore, it is very clear what the importer must do in case the product poses a risk, prescribes obligations from the indication of the importer, because so far we have had but a name of the products, in some cases. The importer must also ensure the appropriate storage conditions, not that the non-compliant storage damages the basic characteristics of the product. In its second part, the law prescribes requirements that must satisfy conformity assessment bodies or so on. ToSses are shortened, behind and very strange syntagms are essentially hidden by various test and competent and other laboratories that themselves must pass the accreditation process, i.e. to prove their compliance with certain international standards, in order to confirm competence, hence their competence, knowledge and skills for the implementation of certain test methods. And these requirements have been established by certain Croatian norms, which have been taken over from European technical legislation. The certificate of accreditation issued by the national accreditation body, i.e. the Croatian accreditation, is the certificate of conformity that is sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this law. In fact, we already mention the technical regulations and standards that we are obliged to take over from the European Union and which we have already largely taken over but not enough because we have committed to taking over at least 85% of European norms by the end of the negotiations in order to meet all requirements for full membership in the European Union, as well as specific requirements for conformity assessment bodies such as technical equipment, expertise, independence, confidentiality, impartiality and staff responsibility. In this way, the Croatian accreditation agency as an impartial third body demonstrates the competence and competence of the body to assess the conformity of so-called testing laboratories, artificial laboratories of certification organisations, etc., and the Croatian accreditation body guarantees the establishment of trust between manufacturers, competent authorities and consumers. It should be noted that the Croatian accreditation agency has fulfilled the fourth paragraph of the agreement 73. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement and that Article 73 provides that the Republic of Croatia must promote the participation of Croatia and its institutions in the work of specialised European organisations such as the European Standardisation Committee, the European Committee on Electrical Standardisation, the European Institute for Telecommunications Standards, the European Co-operation for Authorisation, i.e. EA, European accreditation, European co-operation in legal measurement, then Euromet, CEN, Ceneleh, etc. The Croatian accreditation agency itself has been through the process of assessing its management system, its competence, its work by European accreditation and the ongoing signing of a multilateral agreement with European accreditation and also the signing of an agreement with AILACH, that is, the International Accreditation Co-operation, and when it is implemented, this is already the order of size several months after a very long procedure, in practice it will mean that Croatian accreditation agencies will be valid everywhere in Europe, i.e. after signing a multilateral agreement with international accreditation co-operation, i.e. Ailacha and the world. Therefore, the Croatian accreditation agency has, for its part, fulfilled what was expected of it, as a condition for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. Quality infrastructure which is the central point of the Croatian accreditation agency works, as well as now the situation is such that in the Republic of Croatia we have about 170 accredited laboratories, private and public which therefore work at universities or some institutes, however, there is an issue that already slowly rings the alarm. Because the Croatian Accreditation Agency must ensure that the relevant market for services of examination, measurement, measurement, certification and inspection in the Republic of Croatia is provided, it must ensure recognition of the survey reports and certificates of conformity issued in the Republic of Croatia and in other markets. It must provide technical support to the Croatian economy to achieve competitiveness in the international market. It must ensure trust in the safety and quality of products and services on the Croatian market and must ensure that the safety and health of citizens of environmental protection, consumer protection and other public interests are ensured. Therefore, it is drawn up in the Law on Accreditation and the Statute of the Croatian Accreditation Agency and how it ensures, thus ensuring that competent trained experts, experts, scientists are co-workers of the Croatian accreditation agency in the process of assessing these bodies for the assessment of compliance which are subject to this Act. Therefore, the main point of the whole of this Act is accreditation. Unfortunately, the situation is such that the Croatian Accreditation Agency cannot provide funds that these experts, external pay associates, are limited due to the nature of the operation of the Croatian Treasury, and now we have a paradoxical situation that because of the overall negative attitude towards the intellectual services that the state pays, there is one body that is needed on the road to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which is needed to ensure at least 10 laws are essentially pre-collapsed, and paradoxically, most of its funds are achieved not through the budget but on the market, and then that money must essentially return to the budget and not do with it what is necessary. pay experts and experts, because they have to be paid, and paradoxically it is expected that 500, 600 experts are still employed in the accreditation agency, and that is not the case anywhere in the world. All accreditation agencies and accreditation bodies in the world are working like ours, and I hope that the Government, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance will find a solution to this burning problem so that, in the rest of the law that I hope we can unanimously adopt, it can function uninterruptedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46023	Thank you. Club HDZ Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46024	Mr. Vice President, Madam Director... Ministry of Economy, colleagues and colleagues. So here we see in countless shows that there is a lot of talk in a simplified language, so to the professional language exactly and the technical requirements, each in its own way interprets it. It's good to make these things legal. And here is today the final proposal of one of the most important laws in the area of freedom of movement of goods, which is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. And this is what we have seen the final proposal of the Law on Technical Requirements for Products and Assessment of Consistency. This law transposes Regulation 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 concerning the fixing of requests for accreditation and market surveillance when placing products on the market and decisions of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 concerning the common framework for the placing on the market of products as far as possible. By adopting this law, the Croatian market but also the economic operators involved by the manufacturer, the authorised representative, importers and distributors shall prepare themselves for a legal regime which, as of 1 January this year, is valid on the European Union market when the said Regulation has become binding and directly applicable in all European Union countries. This law changes the traditional approach of product control on the one hand, placing more responsibility on the market for economic operators placing products on the market, while, on the other hand, the role of the State through inspection bodies is moved from the product control phase before placing on the market, on the strictest control of the product once they are placed on the market. The State shall prescribe technical requirements that the product must meet, for the sake of consumer safety, by leaving the economic operator to meet those requirements until the stage of placing the product on the market. Once the products are placed on the market and may pose a risk of breach of the prescribed requirements, high penalties and harsh measures as an additional stimulant to conscientious business have been prevented. I think it's one of the better stimuli. Furthermore, this law also ensures product traceability throughout the supply chain and thus helps to simplify and ensure the effectiveness of the supervision. And an effective traceability system facilitates market surveillance authorities, i.e. inspection bodies, the task of monitoring economic operators available on the market, to place non-compliant products on the market. This law also creates the assumption that products subject to freedom of movement of goods meet the requirements that ensure a high level of protection of public interests. Now this is important, such as the protection of health and safety in general, the protection of health and safety at the workplace, and we also talk about this, consumer protection, so as to protect nature and the environment while ensuring that freedom of movement of goods is not limited to any extent more than is permitted by harmonised Community legislation and the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union by the applicable legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia. As stated today in the preamble to Regulation 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council, it is very difficult to adopt regulations for any product that exists or which can be developed, so that the need for a wider legal framework, so to speak, arises as necessary. horizontal nature, which would prescribe a framework for the regulation of individual products, but also cover any gaps that could occur through the development of new products, especially from the point of view of health and safety and as I said environmental protection and consumer protection. This law is an example of such horizontal regulation, while the requirements for each individual product or product group will be regulated through sublaws that are closer to the profession and more flexible, and as such more similar adaptations to rapid technological progress, but also to changes in technical products placed on the market. The technical requirements for products and conformity assessment are based on the adoption of two sublaws of a horizontal nature. One Regulation on the designation of conformity and a Regulation on the reporting of conformity assessment bodies to achieve full compliance with the new horizontal legislative framework at European Union level. This law creates today assumptions for adapting both economic operators in the Republic of Croatia and the institution of the state for applying and implementing the legal regime, placing products on the open market not only of the Republic of Croatia today, but of the European Union tomorrow. So there's going to be a lot of work, obviously for the customs office through inspections, to agencies and professions. The law is good and the above-mentioned HDZ club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46025	Thank you. Mrs. Danica Hursa's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46026	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the legislators, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning I will say that representatives and representatives of the Croatian People's Party Club will support this law. Namely, this law is a harmonisation of Croatian legislation at the highest possible level with EU legislation. Why at the highest possible level? Croatia is still not a member of the European Union today, which must adopt certain restrictions as is evident in the transitional and final provisions of this law. Furthermore, the transposition of the provisions of European legislation makes certain I would say a positive disturbance in the long-standing legislative tradition. Although this law is not one of those who challenge the large media pompom of the HNS club, it is considered to be one of the very important laws for a number of reasons. With this law, Croatia introduces a different and somewhat new regulation of the market than was usual so far. Every touching in today's market of the Republic of Croatia as a completely independent country, but tomorrow Croatia as part of a broad European market is in itself of exceptional importance for the economy. The market is the basis, the pillar of Western economies and the relationship to the market or the regulation of the state markets expresses its general economic orientation. This law places the responsibility for products and how the law says compliance and basically safety primarily on economic operators. The product control shall not be carried out before placing the product on the market but shall be left to economic operators to comply with the prescribed technical requirements for the products themselves in the context of their responsibilities. Only when the product is on the market is the product of the country through its inspection bodies is it takes over the role of the protection mechanism towards consumers or users. This law also introduces a new pro-European market surveillance system, the inspection bodies cease to be part of a purely repressive state apparatus and become regulatory bodies and as such in the first step partners to economic operators until only in the event that economic operators themselves do not take the necessary actions are given the highest powers to remove from the market dangerous products and also public disclosure of the offenders, which is sometimes a strict or stricter penalty for producers than any fine. Finally, I would like to highlight a few more positive moves that the HNS Club has seen in the very procedure of passing this law. This is one of the few laws harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation that arrived in this Croatian Parliament through regular procedures, so through two readings. This, in our opinion, shows seriousness in the approach to matter and openness to comments and possible corrections and finishing between the two readings, which ultimately results in a higher degree of harmonisation. Furthermore, the HNS Club welcomes the initiative which has been approached by the creation of a new integrated text of the law instead of one more amendment and the addition of the law, which is very often the case that the regulation is made clear and legible to those who should act on it, thereby contributing to the legal certainty of interested parties. We hope this way will become a rule in this House, not an exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46027	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46028	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honored representatives of the Ministry of Economy, dear colleagues and colleagues. The text of this law shows that a key role in assessing compliance has accreditation. I have already talked about this a little bit, but it should be noted that the process of accreditation of these bodies for assessing the conformity of particularly tested and competent laboratories is inconclusive without the other factors of quality infrastructure, primarily the Croatian Bureau of Standards and the system of measurement. In fact, the measurement is the one that ensures traceability, and this ensures traceability in the legal segment and the National Measurement Institute in fundamental measurement. For example, how important measurement is one study conducted in the UK that says that a vast part of the UK’s gross social product depends on measurement in one way or another. This similar research in Croatia has unfortunately not been carried out, but as ordinary citizens, consumers can only believe, for example, that when we tax the car that we really tax out as much gas as it pumps, to spend as much gas as it registers, electricity as it registers, etc. However, as far as fundamental measurement is concerned, the situation is different. The methodology or measurement shall be defined as a measurement science that takes into account experimental and theoretical specifics of measurement uncertainty in any area of science and technology. Among other things, scientific and fundamental measurement deals with the provision of measuring traceability to users in society to international levels. And that's what the measuring institutes are responsible for. So, measuring institutes ensure that every ethanol kilogram we use in Croatia is really a kilogram, that the other dimensions are really that size. Such an institute must also be established in the Republic of Croatia under Article 73. Stabilisation and Association Agreements as an instrument of Croatian accession to full membership of the European Union. It is stated here that the National Measurement Institute in the Republic of Croatia must be a member of EUROMET, i.e. the European Association of Measurement Institutes. However, according to our old custom in the Republic of Croatia, our negotiators promise everything and little to keep. And the fact is that the National Measurement Institute was also mentioned in 2006 in the negotiations of the European Commission which requires the separation of legal and fundamental measurement and the establishment of the Croatian Measurement Institute. Namely, the same body. The State Bureau of Measurement cannot lay down regulations, enforce regulations and supervise inspection. It's a classic conflict of interest. And the fact is that in 2008, an institution called the Croatian Measurement Institute was established to carry out the tasks of the National Measurement Institute. And then another year nothing happened before the end of 2009. The Government of the Republic of Croatia appointed a temporary director of the measuring institute and the administrative council, and the State Bureau of Measurement also determines the funding of the Croatian Measurement Institute of 4 million kunas, meaning that 4 million 600,000 kunas should be sufficient to care for all the state levels that exist in the Republic of Croatia, as well as to ensure the traceability of measurement in our country, to ensure the accreditation of these ten accredited measuring laboratories that ensure the measurement of traceability to international levels, etc. The Institute, the state office kept a large part of the etalan equipment, and the premises of the measuring institute are literally reduced to one, letters one room in the Street of the city of Vukovar and a few rooms in the location of Ibrimovićev bb, which is multiple times less than necessary and than those same laboratories used for their normal work while they were within the office. The six employees are also insufficient to operate national laboratories and maintain international accreditation, as provided for in Article 73. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. On 1 January 2010, therefore, about a month ago it was designated for the start of the institute, but the institution cannot start working for reasons of lack of space or equipment or the number of employees required. The Elaborate on Division has not been created and the commission appointed for its proposal suggests a higher level agreement, at the level of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and problem resolution is extended in a month, i.e. for 1 February 2010. It's January 28th, three more days until this deadline, nothing happened. Honored representatives of the Ministry of Economy, I know I'm talking to the wrong address, but you're the only representatives of the government and I'm asking a rhetorical question. Is the Government informed that certain closed chapters in negotiations with the European Union, such as freedom of movement of goods, may be reopened unless all those agreed measures are implemented during negotiations with the European Commission. Without a measuring institute there is no accreditation, without accreditation there is neither this Act on technical requirements for products nor conformity assessments. Without these cruel laws, a chapter on free movement of goods cannot be effectively closed. Without the closure of this chapter, the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union shall be extended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46029	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Director with her associates. My colleagues and colleagues. An interesting law is ahead of us, and it is obvious that it will be supported by the largest number of clubs and representatives after the debate. Here is my contribution to the debate on the final proposal of the Technical Requirements Act for products and conformity assessment. This law regulates the way in which technical requirements are prescribed for products and conformity assessment procedures with the prescribed requirements and the adoption of regulations by which the competent ministers and directors of state administrations under this product-specific law, i.e. the product group, are detailed in the following elements. They thus regulate the technical requirements which must satisfy the products placed on the market, regulate the rights and obligations of operators placing products on the market, regulate the conformity assessment procedures, the rights and obligations of the bodies carrying out conformity assessment procedures of the product with technical requirements, the conformity documents, the conformity documents, the declaration of conformity, the technical documentation necessary to demonstrate the conformity of the product to be made available to the competent authorities and the way in which the product is marked. This law also regulates market surveillance, i.e. the inspection of this validity of the certificate of conformity issued abroad. The product to be placed on the market must comply with the provisions of the applicable legal provisions relating to that product. The economic operator who places the product on the market shall be responsible for the conformity of those products in accordance with this law. Furthermore, economic operators are responsible for the accuracy and integrity of their products and must ensure that these data comply with the prescribed requirements for that product. This Act also prescribes technical requirements for products in view of their safety, protection of human life and health, donation of animals and plants, and protection of the environment and nature, and others which are determined to regulate the areas to which the regulations apply. We personally expect a lot of this Law from the fulfilment of one of the conditions for Croatia's accession to the European Union, so the adoption of this Act is a prerequisite for the closure of Chapter 1. Freedom of movement of goods, so that more order on the market of products of the Republic of Croatia and quality and security for Croatian citizens. With the adoption of this Act, I hope that this Law will eventually remove different products of dubious quality and low prices, which unfairly compete with our owners from children's toys dangerous for children's health to imports of wine and meat that appear in our country today are far below the quality offered by domestic producers, compete only with the price but no one can guarantee for them safety for users and consumers, nor the protection of the lives of people who use these products. For all these reasons, I support the adoption of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46031	Thank you. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46032	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about this Law, then certainly given that a lot is said, this law regulates the way in which technical requirements for products and conformity assessment procedures are prescribed. Of course, a number of other activities which concern general provisions primarily technical requirements, the rights and obligations of economic operators, the procedures for assessing the conformity of rights and obligations. Of course, this Act also regulates market surveillance of inspection controls and the validity of the conformity documents issued abroad. The economic operator that is most important in all of this, and which makes the product available on the market, is responsible for the conformity of these products. The economic operator shall be responsible for the accuracy and integrity of the data with its products and shall ensure that these data comply with the rules, requirements for that product. Economic operators are also producer, authorised representative, importer and distributor. When we talk about the rules of technical requirements, then we must say that the regulations of this Act prescribe technical requirements for products in view of their safety and, as they are said for the protection of life, people, domestic animals and plants, and environmental and nature protection, and others, which are determined to regulate the areas to which the regulation applies. The heads of the central authority, the state, adopts state administrations, lays down rules transposing the compliance of Community legislation which prescribe the evaluation procedures. We also need to say a few words here about the obligations of economic operators, when an economic operator places its product on the market, the manufacturer is obliged to ensure that its product is designed and manufactured in accordance with the requirements laid down in the rules to be adopted on that product. The manufacturer is also obliged to keep technical documentation, the manufacturer is obliged to ensure that its product is worn by the number of types of jars, batches, etc. When we talk about authorised representatives in this Act, then we must certainly say that the manufacturer can, on the basis of written authority, empower a natural or legal person established in the Republic of Croatia as his authorised representative. The importing producers' obligations are also as follows. The importer is obliged to place only the product in accordance with the provisions of the rules applicable to that product on the market of the Republic of Croatia. The importer shall also be bound by the product or where it is not possible on its packaging or in a document accompanying the product to indicate its name to the registered company, etc. We also have the obligation of distributors, which must verify before making the product available on the distributor market whether the product is marked with the prescribed conformity mark or other markings. In the assessment of conformity, the manufacturer shall also take responsibility for the conformity of the product by making a declaration of conformity. The declaration of conformity must state that the technical requirements laid down in the rules applicable to a particular product are met. We also touch on inspection supervision in this Act which ensures that products placed on the market ensure a high level of protection of public interests, such as health and safety, health protection and safety at work, consumer protection, etc. In order to avoid distribution or prohibitions or to restrict the availability on the market of products covered by the applicable rules, inspection surveillance must be ensured. The inspector’s powers also allow inspectors to require economic operators to make the necessary documentation and data available, to enter into the facilities of economic operators, etc. Finally, we also have the costs resulting from the inspection process, also the costs of the inspection procedure and the verification of the conformity of the product and the transport costs related to inspection control also borne by the economic or economic operator who placed on the market or at the disposal of the product which did not comply with the technical requirements. And finally here it's also very important to say for those economic operators that there is also a criminal provision. It can be from 2000 to 1 million kuna. Of course, all these provisions that have been made and are not respected. Finally, the aim of this law and the reasons is that the application of the new Technical Requirements Act for Products and Conformity Assessment will allow for further strengthening of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy in such a way as to place on the market products that will be safe and meet the criteria of European standardisation, which will allow for better security protection, as already stated in the lives of citizens and all those who benefit from these products. I therefore support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46033	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Mr. Representative Branko Maric. Goran Maric. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46034	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In the economy, the task of each economic operator is to produce a service or product in as short as possible time as possible with as much use as possible at a more favourable price and with less material costs and less employee effort. The price of such a product should correspond to the quality of the product and the useful value of the product. Since in practice it is very often not an accident this law I believe that it will greatly contribute to a different future happening on the market in Croatia and because of compliance with the European Union, rather than some phenomena that have so far been unacceptable to the modern market economy. I would only say that this law is primarily passed and works primarily to protect life, human health, plants, the environment, and also to protect consumers. I would point out something that I think this law will make a big difference if it doesn't happen anymore. For example, there are many technical goods on the Croatian market that do not meet standards. No one checks it, and no one answers why it's broken. Even in the first stage, it's unusable. Also, it is not resistant often to wear, not only does it technically not work, it is not resistant to use, it is not resistant to wear. For example, one case very often has a promotion of various packages, subscriptions, and a mobile for free with such packages. And when comparing the quality of the mobile that you buy regularly, individually and the same product under the same type of the same manufacturer in the package is significantly more incorrect and almost unusable than the one bought in the package. I believe this will help remove such things. How many textiles in Croatia enter unquality under the same brand, under the same manufacturer, and one first washing no longer recognizes the witch or shirt. This law will help keep it that way. How much food, food products enter the market that does not satisfy the quality, which is even harmful to health, which also contains carcinogenic substances. This law will help to prevent such phenomena from occurring in the future. How many candy children eat that directly affect the development, age and health of children? No one's responsible for that. This law, I believe, will contribute, that someone will answer, increase the responsibility of these economic operators, not only to respond to such ones, but to prohibit them from such distribution of such products. How many non-alcoholic drinks that are supposed to be healthy by nature have harmful, and even those that create addiction have proven addiction. They're still distributed. How much drinking water was sold without drinking. This law will prevent such phenomena in the future. How many toys the children played with, and with their touch they poisoned, infected or caused some sort of disease. It has been established and recently withdrawn some toys from China that also contain carcinogenic substances. I believe this law will help at least reduce it, and I would be most fortunate to remove such things. A special story is a pharmaceutical market. Rarely I meet from rope, a wider family who is involved in pharmaceuticals that has not been to any seminars in Thailand, Arizona, Hawaii all about the cost, the financial cost of pharmaceutical companies and all for the promotion of useful products for the protection of human health. And what do we use and use to protect our health? For example, some days say the drug against obesity that they used to want to lose weight causes a heart attack. I believe that this law will prevent this from ever happening again, but that it will also suit the one who allowed such a market to be distributed, such a product on the market. I remember, I think 24 dead with a case of diabetes when Baxter's Pliva packed up and distributed to sick people, and they paid the price with their lives. I believe this law will prevent such unloved events. I also read the fate of poor girls who used birth control and Jasmine pills to pay the same price in their lives. I also read somewhere that using anti-rheumatic drugs, I think it's called "Vioxx" I'm not sure, it's also very harmful to human health, and we get better under cover as soon as possible. So many vaccines in the pharmaceutical market have appeared absolutely ineffective and some on the contrary and life-threatening. I support this bill of law to adopt this bill, to prevent such negative phenomena, to make there less trips to Thailand and more health in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46035	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46036	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Act on Technical Requirements for Products and Assessment of Consistency. The second reading was, P.Z.E. number 362. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Please, Mr. Ivan Bubic. Please enter into force on the amendments to Article 37.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46037	Thank you, Mr. President. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46038	He accepts. Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. Article 40.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46039	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46040	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 44
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46041	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46042	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Article 45
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46043	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46044	It becomes an integral part of the law. Article 46
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46045	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46046	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46047	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46048	Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 108 votes for, one abstention, nothing against, along with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46049	We are going to the next point - final proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 378 The Proposer is Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, carried out by committees on legislation, European integration and the judiciary. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Zoran Piculjan will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46050	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After the General Administrative Procedure Act, which was adopted and adopted by this Croatian Assembly in March 2009, you also have before you the Final Proposal of the Law on Administrative Dispute. It is, in fact, a matter which, by convention law and already in practice, makes the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia a unique legal whole. The law itself has a double purpose, above all it modernises administrative and judicial proceedings and reorganises administrative trials, so it aims to raise the quality and efficiency of court decisions, but also to make more available court cases through the regional concept of administrative trial in the first degree. The fundamental normative, in fact, real intervention in the field of administrative trial is that the administrative dispute becomes a dispute full of jurisdiction, not just a dispute on the legality of an individual administrative act, we are starting from the classical concept of administrative dispute over this modernity, and in the European administrative and legal space of the long-standing concept. Why are these legal solutions important? They are of particular importance in the case of a specific court procedure in which the defendant is the body of the state administration, as well as any other public legal body. I remind myself of a very wide range of status forms of legal entities with public powers, but also of the actions of local self-government units, all of which, of course, the authorities of the state administration and other state bodies, are all covered now by the Law on General Administrative Procedure and then the Law on Administrative Disputes. In addition, it is important to see both the enlargement of administrative dispute cases and the assessment of the legality of the conduct of the public legal body. Re-deviation, deviation from the administrative act according to the actions and failures of the public authorities. And finally extending the subject matter of constitutional protection and to the matter of administrative contracts, one new in the Croatian administrative procedure, the Croatian administrative law, which deire insists on the nature of things, but for now he has not insisted in the general administrative procedure and the administrative dispute. This provides both protection and judicial protection in this area. All of this shows the binding and conditionality, the inter-constitutional conditionality of the legal settlement of the administrative procedure and the administrative dispute, and the re-concession of the single legal one, the finding of a single legal entity is valid. All this is also important from constitutional law, from a constitutionally justified point of view, because in this concept of trial, the High Administrative Court is only an extremely appeal court and that is where the first-degree procedure does not confirm the decision of the public legal authority. It represents its own legal filter, but the result of its action and application of the Conventional Law, but also the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2007, which changed its legal understanding, is to respect the reasonable period starting to be calculated from the submission of the complaint to the second-degree administrative body, rather than more claims to the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. Racio of these solutions, the solutions of this law are in determining the procedural rules of a specific court procedure which has elements of litigation, but also of administrative procedure, but still because of the parties, which are in it, which are acting in it, are in fact specific rules that require their specific regulation. What is also important is that solutions are modernised and the process is accelerated, through various small improvements, but significant improvements. For example. The jurisdiction of the court shall be determined by the jurisdiction of the court of the prosecutor's residence or residence, the resolution shall also be given to the individual, the appeal shall be ensured only in the most complex legal matters, and new Institutes of Visual Rights and Arrangements shall be introduced, as well as resolutions without oral implementation, i.e. without oral debate. A significant extension of the subject matter of administrative dispute is also an assessment of the legality of general acts which do not have the character of the regulations, here is not affected by the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, but covers the determination, possible identification of illegality in a number of general acts which do not have the character of the rules, but from which practically the rights of an individual whose illegality of the rights of the individual may be significantly unprotected. What should also be added is that this law enters into force on 1 January 2012. I didn't say it on purpose until January 1, 2012, because it would have been easily promised speed. It is necessary to re-establish the system of administrative trial, and a series of reorganisational legal and out-of-law activities to be undertaken, and therefore this, entry into force in 2012 is its reality. It seems to us that this rounding of administrative procedure and administrative dispute and the adoption of a new Law on Administrative Dispute is going in the direction of affirmation of modern standards of trial and application of the principle of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, but we can mention them here without twisting the word that in this case we are in the direction of modernising administrative trial and administrative judicial action. But it should also not be forgotten to do business so far or to date in this area for the last 40 years, 50 years and to say that, but in this area we also have our own tradition and therefore this ZUP and ZUS Act on General Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Dispute is actually one combination of Croatian legal traditions and modernization, which is, in the opinion of the promoter, the best guarantee of its conduct, efficiency and ultimately, of action in the Croatian legal space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46051	Thank you. The Committee on Law, European Integration, the Committee on Justice. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Dear MPs and MPs before us is the final proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. In addition to the new Law on General Administrative Procedure, such as Mr. Secretary of State, this final proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes makes it a sort of administrative and administrative and administrative whole, and represents a combination of the legal Croatian tradition in the administrative trial, but also introduces some modern, new legislative solutions in the administrative court procedure that will first and foremost bring the Republic of Croatia closer to modern European solutions. Although the current law that has been in force has some European standards because of our country's accession to the EU, it was necessary to introduce some new legal institutes into this final proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes. What is important is highlighted in this final proposal of the Law to pay particular attention to the contribution of new modern solutions. Six. The European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and above all, concerning the administrative dispute as a dispute of full legal jurisdiction, consistently implemented principles of oral debate and making it easier for administrative courts to be available. In the process of approaching and entering our country into the EU, it was necessary to address some of the ongoing problems and difficulties encountered before this legal solution. Above all, the non-compliance of part of the procedural rules with the EU acquis. The current provisions of the Law on Administrative Disputes did not meet all the standards of common European law above all through two key issues, which is the right of the court to determine in each dispute the factual state and the right of the court to conduct an oral debate in order to determine the facts and safeguard the rights of the parties. The new draft law introduced the possibility of proposing an appeal in the administrative procedure and a higher level of trial, thus achieving a comparison with the legal systems of the EU Member States. The new proposal, the final proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes, will also shorten the duration of administrative procedures and reduce all backlogs in resolving administrative disputes. Here we should mention and especially praise the 2004 CARDS project called "A support for more efficient, more efficient and modern management and work of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia" within which this strategic document was drawn up, and it has also served as a programme for the development of this final proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes. As I said, this law will introduce a two-stage settlement of administrative procedures. First of all, to ensure greater legal certainty and efficiency in administrative disputes, and to allow parties, where they consider it necessary to lodge an appeal only in exceptional cases, to lodge an appeal in the administrative dispute. First of all, when it comes to significant infringements of the procedure, the erroneous factual situation or the misapplication of material law. The right to lodge an appeal does not mean that an extension of the administrative procedure will be allowed, but rather the opposite of the fact that the procedure will be shortened and that a large number of residual administrative cases will be resolved on the basis of this final proposal of the law within a shorter period of time. As far as administrative courts are concerned, first-degree courts are being introduced in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek. What should particularly be pointed out is that these modern legal solutions will not require additional and large financial material costs. First of all, since the 2010 budget will not require budget funds for 2011 the position of the Ministry of Justice should be provided for about 8 million and 300,000 kuna for the purposes of the work of judges. As far as spatial needs are concerned, the premises used by the judicial authorities will be used, above all, because the reform of the network of judicial facilities is under way so that existing facilities will be used for these courts as well. According to the calculations, it will take about 70 to 80 judges for the needs of administrative courts. In 2011, it will be necessary to appoint 22 judges and 14 judicial advisers. What still needs to be pointed out in this final proposal for a law to enable the investment of an extraordinary legal remedy as far as possible, in the current applicable law through the review of the administrative judgment. Here an extraordinary legal remedy is allowed for the party to be able within 6 months. to submit, therefore, an extraordinary legal remedy for the review of the judgment of the Supreme Court or of the High Administrative Court which is similar to the application for the protection of legality under the applicable Law on Administrative Disputes. The purpose of this extraordinary legal remedy is to ensure the possibility of an extraordinary intervention of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia as the Constitution of the highest court in the state in order to ensure uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. What is finally to be said for the final proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes, as we first said, it is a combination of the tradition of Croatian administrative law. The need for modernisation, the need to facilitate and speed up court proceedings when it comes to administrative disputes, the need for easier access of the court to citizens will be achieved by introducing first-degree courts into the 4 largest Croatian cities. The proposed law does not require large material resources, it has a much greater impact on these new institutes that are included in the proposed law. The HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament also supports the adoption of this final proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes because we consider it to be of particular importance to the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46053	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46054	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. We could say that the adoption of such a law makes a significant contribution to judicial reform in the Republic of Croatia. It is good that the Ministry of Justice is dealing with this problem and in some ways trying to round up this matter of administrative proceedings, i.e. administrative disputes in one certainly stands the assessment of a modern, efficient way. However, it seems to us that the Ministry of Justice does not have the capacity to do it in a way that it would only want. So they've been embossed and certain misunderstandings, which is if we say that the law will come into force on 1 January 2012. This means that we are consciously making a decision that we will not be able to enjoy the benefits of this law for two years. On the other hand, if the applicant has already announced that he does not need funds to implement this law in 2010, then it means that real jobs will only take place in 2011. What we're going to spend 2010 on is still unclear. And it's not good to spend it in vain. In fact, the area of administrative dispute is one of the most inefficient, and on the other hand it is something where citizens have direct interest, because it is almost always about violating their rights in front of the authorities of the state administration, in front of the authorities of the district self-government, in front of local self-government bodies. And that's our daily life. So every citizen's relationship with public authority is the space of a possible administrative dispute. And that's so wide, so from the moment a man is born, so when he's dealing with the home office, until the moment of late years when he has to vote a certain right in front of local or state government, he's constantly in communication with the bodies of local, regional and state governments who keep issuing documents, solutions and the like, and he's always in a position to watch out for someone who hasn't violated his right, or denied his rights established by the regulations, but also by general declarations and all of what we rely on our society to claim to be free and democratic. The backlog in the administrative dispute, the length of the duration of the disputes, in many situations, is extremely frustrating. You can't get to the river for years, you can't get to the verdict, you can't get to the decision. And at that time, the damage begins, it occurs, it builds up, people lose their rights and lose their trust in the rule of law, because on the other hand they have a state and they feel absolutely powerless. That's the cartoon of the badger in front of the court. To talk about the rule of law, and in this area does not provide clear guarantees that administrative procedures, administrative disputes will be firm, fair and rapid, that justice will be available and that the state has a specific obligation to rush these procedures and ensure that they end as soon as possible, just because it is on the other hand, it is an obligation of a conscious and conscious state to the citizens. We must be aware that citizens of the state experience on every administrative body. Many people do not know the difference between the municipality, the city, the county, the state office and the other bodies of the state administration. It's all for them, because on the other hand someone who lives off their work, who's paid to provide them with a favor prescribed by law to make their life easier. And in practice, they regularly encounter those who seem to be paid to make their lives as complicated as possible. And that's why every citizen contact with the public service is causing frustration and one general negative attitude towards the state. If we feed it and let it actually keep going, we're long-term drinking the branch we're sitting on. We're destroying citizens' trust in their country. Therefore, it is the task of knowingly aware, modern and responsible governments to resolve this area as soon as possible, clear, to allow both technical and human and financial conditions for the administrative trial to be rushed, improved and ultimately made as close as possible to the citizens. This message that only in 2012 will 14 judges be in disposition, out of 70 how much we expect they really will need is not a good message. In this sense, the HNS supports this bill, we evaluate it as good and modern, and we welcome it. We regret that it took 10 months to pass between the first and second readings, that it had not arrived before, we are sorry that there is no funds in the budget already this year for its implementation, we are sorry not to double the capacity of preparation in 2011. We believed that after that first reading in March last year that it was possible to enforce this law of 1. 1. 2011, but there's a waste of time. To the soul of the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46055	Thank you very much. And the last club registered is the SDP club on behalf of the club will be spoken by respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46056	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the adoption of this final draft law on administrative disputes. Before I say anything about the content itself, I think it is necessary to mention something in general about this law on nomotechnics, the way it was made, its examination, its parts, its heads and certain provisions. I think this is and it should be pointed out when there's an example of what laws should look like. It is a pity that some and others also very important laws for this country and our progress as recently or this morning's debated Public Procurement Act, or on the control of public procurement and the state commission, has not been made in such a way. It is reviewed, it is clear, it contains fundamental principles that protect an individual and these principles are later discussed in certain provisions, and they are a guarantee of how a man can achieve his justice that has been denied or denied by the illegal conduct of the body of public authority or by a public-law body to be in the spirit of the law. This is also the occasion when we are discussing such a proposal for a law on administrative disputes to remember, however, a huge number of cases that lie in front of the Administrative Court today one, now we will have four, and we will have a higher administrative court which is certainly good and on the trail of just the right judicial authorities in this kind of case. The number of these cases indicates a major violation of the law by public-legal authorities. This is one worrying level, i.e. height and low level of legality in the conduct of public-legislative bodies. One general political climate is that illegality is least tolerated because it is not sanctioned. How many times and after years and years of waiting when such an act is annulled, the first-degree body is again waiting for years to solve at all and sometimes not solve. We see this latest law, amendments to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, so instead of welcoming the final solution of their status, they surrender to them and return the documents because the guilt of the administration has not been resolved. And that's something that's... So this lawlessness has still been passed by the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much for the return and guarantee of Mrs. Prime Minister who once said she would restore dignity to the Croatian defenders and return the papers to them because the state did not solve it. This only along the way and countless such examples are not only of the law but also of the failure and nothing happened to anyone. That's why this proposal is to concentrate now, so that we don't create a wheeze about some of the things that are about this that don't contribute much to the thing itself, so I'm going to concentrate on behalf of the SDP club on the law itself. I think in these basic provisions that then speak of what is the subject of the law and what is the objective of the law but also finally very clearly state what is the subject of just the administrative dispute. This is good because many laws that speak of the actions of individual bodies have not defined it themselves, but in the beginning, there are different misunderstandings. It is also good to introduce exceptions to the management of the administrative dispute here, and it is said that this is something that has been disputed in theory for a long time. Therefore, since public-legislative bodies and since administrative courts will be responsible for assessing the constitutionality of the failure of a public-law authority or for assessing the legality of an individual decision, I do not further quote everything the provision of Article 3 but also speak of those cases which are referred to as administrative acts which are not an administrative act but are acts of public authority. Therefore, it is necessary to distinguish this in the procedure itself in order to then concentrate both the possibility and so that the party knows in advance whether it is an act of conduct or whether it is an administrative act against which it has the right to initiate administrative dispute or first to conduct administrative proceedings. The principles are well-numbered, however, it seems to me that full compliance that the principle of oral debate should come before the party's statement principle, because the principle of party declaration, in particular its paragraph 2 may nevertheless be decided on the administrative dispute and without giving parties the opportunity to declare itself only in cases prescribed by law. So it's a deviation from the principle of orality of the debate, so it seems to us here at the SDP Club that this Article 7 which is the basic principle and this second principle is nevertheless an exception, and it's kind of a chronological order that needs to be brought into line. This is one of the few laws, the procedural laws that introduces the old principle and I think it is fully in line with the current situation, the principle of helping the ignorant party. These principles have been denied by many procedural legislation which is not good, and then it is ultimately the right to be and justice, the right of one who has the means to pay for a better authority and thus effectively and professionally represent him before institutions. Here this principle of helping an ignorant party creates a commitment to those who are conducting the procedure to help with their advice or in an adequate way to the ignorant party, which means that it is not obliged to represent itself by power of attorney. In the jurisdiction and composition of the court, the law states in a sentence in which cases I have already dealt with, i.e. the lawsuits and the cases in which the courts or their jurisdiction are dealt with. I also think that local jurisdiction is fully well-defined, and also the composition of the court. We see here that the judges are solely professionals here, there is no jury trial, which means that this court is not a court of law that is made up of professionals and judges of jurors. Also, these are general provisions about the exception there is, where we as a club have no objections. When taking actions in the administrative dispute, i.e. representation of prosecutors and interested persons, we draw attention to the fact that it is not resolved until the end who can be the prosecutor's attorney. For the defendant, it's clear, it's precisely this body that passed an illegal act, at least in the prosecutor's opinion. But here it is not in a good way, or quite precise way solved who can be the attorney's attorney. In view of the similar provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure which explicitly resolved that they could be lawyers, those entered in the bar, it is only an exception, therefore, to lead this element of social sensitivity, that the party can always represent itself or be represented by the nearest relative. This is not settled here, so the question of possible and legislation is raised which certainly wasn't the intensities of the nadriscist, so you should see what it is with this provision, or what the Proposer may have thought exactly, but he didn't realize it until the end. Therefore, we warn of the provision of Article 21. In the initiation of the case itself, that is to say, it is good to introduce the terms that it is always a matter of haste, so as to prevent any abuse and delay of procedural participants in such a way that the prosecutor is obliged to state in all the facts in the case, and also to immediately state in the case all the evidence to which he supports his factual allegations, just as the defendant is obliged in his reply to show himself about all the facts and also to support his claims immediately with his own facts, and that each delaying or delaying the action, or the procedure that has been prevented by the judges, or the president of that council himself, who will judge in the administrative court. It is also good that an individual decision, therefore, assesses the assumptions for the conduct of the administrative dispute, does not affect the law or the legal interest of the prosecutor himself, and this is settled by the provision of Article 30(2). We also consider the effective provisions concerning the delivery of the complaint, but also the invitation of parties to the administrative dispute itself. What is a newspaper and what needs to be particularly highlighted and what we particularly welcome, which is the new institute that is regulated in the provision of Article 48, it is a visual dispute. We are witnessing that in identical situations with the same fact-finding substrate, in the case of a lawsuit with the same legal basis, individual bodies make different decisions and no more endangers the system than that. Here is the obligation of the administrative authorities to do exactly in the same situations, and this is well resolved, so that one or two cases cannot already create an example of a view rather than a few decisions, here this is what the Proposer proposes to be ten or more first-degree administrative disputes, which are, of course, legally and resolved, so a review by a higher administrative court has been carried out, in an identical way, to resolve such matters, that there should not be an administrative dispute, but simply on the basis of such visual disputes will be dealt with in an identical manner. This addresses the question of uncertainty, so that the parties know in advance that they are in similar or identical situations that administrative courts will make the same decisions. It's good, it removes that arbitraryness, it kind of encourages and encourages people that in the same situations they will be equally and treated, and so much we need in this situation. I've already said about delivery, I think it's settled in a good way so the parties don't abuse the possibility of delivery and thus make it difficult to process, and it's equally commendable to the provision of article 59 which speaks of compensation for damages and damages things. Therefore, not only the administrative court, the senior administrative court, the administrative authorities, but often courts rarely, if they were to resolve the main matter, would they rarely, or very rarely, resolve the compensation of the damage. The court is now obliged to decide, under an administrative contract that is illegally broken or void, also on the compensation of damages. This first creates one concentration of the process, creates efficiency and ultimately saves money to initiate another process, and the parties are much more satisfied. There is also no special procedure in the second instance, and there is nothing that would cause any opposition, although I think it is settled by the rules of profession and conduct in secondary cases. But what is a newspaper and what is certainly a special greeting, which is the execution of judgments. That's what I was saying at the beginning, that even now that the administrative court had resolved the first-degree body would have put the object in drawers and not solved. The protection against such behaviour that the first-degree body would have disobeyed the decision of the second-degree body was resolved right here in the execution of the solution, in Articles 81 and 82, that the party had the right to do so when it received such a decision, the first-degree body did not decide to launch exactly...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46057	Time's up, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46058	Therefore, and all that has been stated, the SDP club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46059	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. We've got four individual hearings reported so far. We're going in the order of the check-in. First respected representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46060	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. By applying the Law on Administrative Disputes in Fundamental Decisions from afar in 1952, it was taken over into the Croatian legal system in 1991 and slightly amended and completed in 1992. Taking into account the procedure for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the need to revise the current Law on Administrative Disputes is indicated, since it does not meet the standards set in the legal acquis of the European Union, i.e. the need to draw up a new Law on Administrative Disputes in which European standards on the functioning of the rule of law will be incorporated, as well as the protection of the rights of citizens, i.e. the judicial review of administrative decisions before independent courts and as referred to in Article 6; European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In view of the three basic issues that must be resolved differently, which relate to the non-compliance of part of the procedural rules, the inability to invest a legal remedy in the judgments of the Administrative Court, the excessive duration of proceedings and the large number of pending cases, the CARDS 2004 project was launched to support more effective, more efficient and modern management and work of the Administrative Court of Croatia, and a strategic document for drawing up guidelines and draft new Law on Administrative Disputes with the fundamental objective of harmonising administrative justice with the acquis of the European Union, and in particular Article 6. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which will allow for greater efficiency of the judicial procedure, which should result in a reduction in its duration. The proposed Law on Administrative Disputes contains solutions relating to the reform of procedural law through ensuring legal protection against all administrative proceedings, not only individual decisions, decision-making and by judge-in-law, the right of the court to determine on its own the facts of the dispute, the obligation of the court to conduct an oral hearing in all cases unless otherwise prescribed by law. Furthermore, a two-stage administrative trial is being organised, allowing parties to apply for decisions of first-degree courts in the most complex legal matters to the High Administrative Court, in particular, the assessment of the legality of units of local and regional self-government and legal entities which have public authority which are not in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Achieving the procedural possibility of the court to determine the facts itself and, as a rule, to conduct an oral debate will result in greater legal certainty and better protection of the rights of parties from decisions and actions of the administration, and will certainly contribute to a faster settlement of court cases. The subject-matter of the administrative dispute shall also be extended by an assessment of the legality of individual decisions of the public legal authority and to the assessment of the legality of the conduct of the public legal body as well as the assessment of the legality of the conclusion, the termination, and the execution of administrative contracts. Administrative courts will also have full jurisdiction over determining the facts, not only the application of the law, but also the conduct of a mandatory oral hearing at the first stage of the trial, with exceptions prescribed by law. Also, administrative courts will be responsible for the area of one or more counties, and would be established in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek while the High Administrative Court will be established for the territory of the Republic of Croatia based in Zagreb. In view of this, and given the importance and importance of harmonising this new law in the process of joining the Republic of Croatia to the European Union as well as the fact that it represents an upgrade in the part of the administrative trial and, together with the Law on Administrative Procedure, I support the Final Proposal for a Law on Administrative Disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46061	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. It is up to the honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the final proposal for a law on administrative disputes. I, too, will firstly say that this law absolutely needs to be supported, because it really represents a very important segment, so almost a key part of the reform on the one hand of administrative law and administrative trial in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Administrative Disputes, and the regulations establishing the territorial structure and jurisdiction of regional administrative courts and the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia not only represent a newspaper but are indeed reforming the system of administrative law and are one of the key components of the project of the Government of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice in the process of the overall reform of the judicial system. And I think that this regulation as a good regulation, as a necessary regulation, should therefore be seen in its overall resolution of administrative issues as a key part, as a quality component after which the adoption, or application in the administrative sense, indeed, and when we look at these other regulations will not be the same situation. And I think it is necessary to say exactly what kind of situation we are in right now and which is why it is necessary and good to bring this regulation and in the far line to get into effect as soon as possible so that its institutes begin to apply. Therefore, it does not need to be avoided from the truth that administrative disputes or administrative proceedings resulting from administrative disputes are in our first row, so we have too long duration of the procedure itself and we have a large or significant number of pending cases. This will become the basic tool for these two elements to be eliminated as negative. Therefore, increasing the efficiency of court proceedings and reducing the duration of proceedings, and reducing the possibility of reducing the backlogs in solving the cases themselves. Furthermore, when we talk about newspapers that are primarily related to the reform of procedural management rights, we can systematise them in a wide variety of ways. For the purposes of this debate, I only included in my opinion 4 basic or 4 basic elements or characteristics which, in this positive sense, characterise this bill. Therefore, firstly it is about ensuring legal protection from all administrative practices, not only from individual decisions. In other words, the possibility of self-determining facts in a dispute, namely the self-determination of facts in a dispute, of the court to carry out an oral hearing in all cases. So, in general, except when the law is different and as legal terms say, therefore, disputes of full jurisdiction, i.e. making primary reform decisions, decision on the scale of things, and casatorial decisions only in exceptional cases. When we link it to the reconstruction of the courts themselves as an institution, we get one completely different picture in a metric, therefore essential sense, but also in terms of the new organisation and functioning of administrative courts in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, these elements of procedural law should be added to the fact that the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia is determined so that, in the vast majority of cases, it is not a secondary court of appeal, but rather a court that will only solve the most complex administrative matters and decide on the assessment of the legality of the general acts. I think that this concept or this concept of jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court is absolutely acceptable and that when this practice is brought to life, in fact, as an administrative and legal institute, it will actually give all these positive effects or results that we expect from such legal solutions. Furthermore, the two-stage administrative trial shall be established by this law and shall allow the parties to lodge an appeal against decisions of the first-degree courts, in particular to highlight the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court in terms of the assessment of the legality of the general acts which are not in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. We have had opportunities and so far in the debates to hear that this law defines in a good way what the administrative dispute is, but it is very interesting to analyse those provisions of the law in relation to those provisions, in relation to what the administrative dispute is therefore not, that is, when no administrative dispute can be conducted, and it cannot be conducted in matters in which judicial protection is secured outside the administrative dispute, nor on the regularity of any decision taken by applying a public judicial assessment. However, it can be guided if it is the legality of such a decision, the limits of power and the purpose of which it is given. I think it's important to note, just when we look at these positive definitions, so what this administrative dispute is and it's good that it's defined in law and in a quality way it's defined and always looked at in this mirror, so the relationship that this administrative dispute is not and what it is in practice and what situations in practice we can face. I think there have been mentions so far, i.e. that the date of entry into force has been commented, i.e. the evaluation on 1 January 2012. This is common in my view, we have this common denominator or common feature in all major projects, I would dare to show the projects, when it comes to very important reform procedures, regardless of which area of rights we look at, because in order to allow proper preparation, so that the law can function properly, it is necessary not only to provide the necessary financial resources, but also to prepare people and institutions when it so works, when the law comes into force that it can be applied in its fullness. So that deadline is and we can observe it relatively and long, but also short, when we know what must happen in that time period, so by January 1, 2012, that is, what has to be prepared for this law to not only come into force and be a dead letter on paper, but for it to come to life, so that the law institutes can be properly applied. Therefore, the evacuation deadline shows that not only should the additional financial resources be provided for the preparation of this law, but the whole administrative system should be prepared for a new way of managing administrative proceedings, administrative disputes, and ultimately should result in greater urgency, greater legal certainty, reduction of pending cases, as well as time needed for decision-making in the running and administrative procedures and in administrative disputes. And that's exactly what I'm going to conclude with this debate about this I'm going to repeat a very important law, so that's exactly what I think the basic reason for this law is. This law, with these quality solutions, will just live up to the way we all expect it to be, if these two elements are agreed, which is the urgency of reducing the number of pending cases and greater legal certainty, and I have no doubt that in 2012, when this law comes into force, together with the legislation already passed and the new establishment of administrative courts in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it will indeed be so, and in that sense I absolutely support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46063	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. And for the next 10 minutes, it belongs to the esteemed representative of Damir Sesvečana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46064	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, here is the final proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes, which, as defined in Article 1, governs jurisdiction, the composition of the court and the rules of procedure on the basis of which administrative courts decide on the legality of decisions and the conduct of public bodies, and on the rights, obligations and legal interests of natural and legal persons and other parties. In the sense of this law, public authorities shall therefore include state administration bodies, units of local and regional self-government bodies, and legal entities having public authority or public service, and this concept shall be consistently used in accordance with the decisions of the new General Administrative Procedure Act. And it is the General Administrative Procedure Act, to which this law is based, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in March 2009 that introduced a number of newspapers and new institutes into the administrative process and definitely modernised and normatively improved the administrative trial in accordance with the highest European legal standards. As regards this law, therefore, the Law on Administrative Disputes, given that much has already been said about it both today and through the debates during the first reading, I will only mention in my debate some of the new institutes and solutions important for the administrative proceedings. First of all, this law will achieve consistent management of the administrative dispute, in accordance with the principle of the right to a fair trial and the right to a decision of the court within a reasonable period of time, as one of constitutional but fundamental human rights. It also assumes that the Administrative Court shall be a court full of jurisdiction, meaning that the Court may carry out and assess the evidence on its own, so as to examine the facts of the case on its own, and the parties to the proceedings shall be given the right to a public oral hearing and a conflicting debate before the first instance courts. So far, this has not been the case, because the current Law on Administrative Disputes, the decision to hold an oral debate, leaves it... The administrative court, which in practice, led to the fact that oral debates were not conducted at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The important news of this law is that administrative courts will be authorised to make reform decisions and casatorial decisions only in exceptional cases. Therefore, unlike the applicable law, judges will have the power to decide on the case, to order the administrative authority to adopt a requested administrative act, and not only to annul the contested administrative act and return it to the administrative authority, so as to be a casator decision, and I believe that this will certainly have a positive impact on the speed, but also on the quality of the court's conduct. The law also provides for the introduction of a two-stage administrative trial in a way that introduces regional first-degree administrative courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek and the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. This will certainly make the administrative trial more accessible to citizens both physically and qualitatively. As far as the High Administrative Court is concerned, it will deal with the most complex administrative matters and will influence its actions on the harmonisation of the practice of first-degree courts. It is also important to point out from the first reading that the applicant accepted remarks from the parliamentary debate that the High Administrative Court could not be in charge of the decision on constitutionality but only on the legality of the general act. The paper in relation to first reading is also the acceptance and introduction of a request for an extraordinary review of the legality of the administrative or senior administrative court's judgment as an extraordinary legal remedy ensuring the possibility of an extraordinary intervention of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in order to ensure uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. Which, of course, I absolutely support. I am convinced that the proposed solutions and the institutes of this law will contribute to the greater efficiency of the administrative court procedure, contribute to the reduction of the length of court proceedings, but not less to the reduction of existing delays. For these reasons, I will support the adoption of this Law on Administrative Disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46065	Thank you very much. And the individual debate will be concluded by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, this text of the final bill deserves praise in the purity of the legal norm and in the pronunciation. And since I've already taken the floor, I'd like to highlight a few of the things that my MPs expect, but even more citizens and legal persons expect from that law. Therefore, this law will fill a huge legal gap in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, which should benefit citizens and legal persons who address their important issues before administrative or public-law bodies. And now they gain the opportunity, by passing this law, to ensure the protection and that they protect their interests unless they are satisfied with the resolution of public-legal bodies. It is an exceptional newspaper and it is one of the levers that provides officials and public-legal bodies with a more politically independent position compared to the present. In fact, Croatia is also from the EU, and we also witness daily that the state administration and public administration had a burden of political dependence in the Republic of Croatia, I hope that this law will be a strong lever to reduce this political dependence in administrative resolution and administrative action to a bearable measure. This is the law, and we expect this law to further reduce the possibility of corruption in the resolution of administrative bodies in the administrative process by doing exactly what the law does. Another expectation I hope will be fulfilled. In fact, if the exact statistics that I have are that the current administrative disputes are being conducted for three years, then, of course, none, and I would say, no wind in the back of the economy or the citizens to come to Croatia and solve their interests through the administration. I hope it will be reduced to at least a reasonable measure if not within the legal deadlines. I think it is very important to stress this expectation, but also to announce to the citizens that they are expected to be further, to say the least, an opportunity to protect their rights and hope that the deadline set here in first 2012 will be secured. Nothing is far, if well prepared. However, I would like to stress by my court that there is another trap in this law and it is very large in my court, which is an assessment of the legality of the general act. We will now have two courts that will actually decide on legality in Croatia. It's the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court. If the principle that in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia all regulations must, they must not be contrary to the law and must comply with the Constitution, then that legal hierarchy cannot be divided into 2 degrees. It must be in accordance with the Constitution to the minimum. Of course, I hope that a transitional solution should be supported because it is better than without any assessment of the legality of the general acts. But that should be considered, perhaps to relieve the Constitutional Court of some other tasks, and to give it full jurisdiction over the legality and constitutionality of the Republic of Croatia. Since my colleagues have truly been commending themselves on the very norms and the text of the law, I will not do it, but I will only finish and I will be pleased to vote in favour of the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46067	Thank you very much. And now the final word on behalf of the promoter will have a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46068	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen MPs, it was really nice, instructive, and I would say from a professional point of view, from an expert observation point of view to me as interesting to me as a man who is in administrative dispute, administrative procedure and all such aspects of the uninteresting relatively legal area, deals with his entire life listening to the debate that affected the essence of things. In the first reading of the first reading and during the debate on the bill, we listened carefully and recorded what was the conclusion of the debate and what were the conclusions of the expert debate. And that's why they passed on to you, and I think it's a good thing that this House hears it passed on in the lawmaking process. Here, a fellow Member of the Parliament, Ingrid Antičević, actually pointed to another forgotten legal discipline, which is nomotechnics such as creation, and then design and nomotechnical regulation. This all shows that laws are done by people, laws are done by quality experts. Here I'd like to commend what's a little bit from this constituency booth and a little bit of it is known. The colleagues who gave the highest pain to make this law look this small, largely small but still with their achievements and not so small in this area. The biggest pain is that Professor Dario Djeđa is the head of the Department of Administrative Law of the University of Rijeka and besides him retired Professor Davor Medvedović of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. We should thank them, thank them, and it is always a pleasure to work with people who understand the problem and face their opinions and when we disagree in many things. And that's why I'm ending up with this one more minute of suffering, with what Mr. Leco said. This, if we may not have fully guessed about the assessment of legality, we had to introduce it into this law to encourage perhaps some other thinking and parts related to the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that such discussions will open. The concern expressed by a representative of the Croatian People's Party club who spoke very competently about this issue, I don't think it should, however, be a little excessive. Perhaps MP Leko indirectly Mr Tomljanović, Sesvečan and Grbić confirmed it as well. It's not that far in 2012. It is likely that this law is almost certain that the General Administrative Procedure Act should be brought together, but when we have not already done so at least we do not have to make an easy promise of speed, but in this short time we must carry out a series of activities that will lead to the realization and the legal life of this normative text. That's how I think you'll have laws in March, which was mentioned by the distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic, which is the territorial structure of regional courts, interventions in the Law on Courts, where conditions and procedures for selecting first-degree courts will go. Here we have an indirect one solution, one implementation plan in which to solve what is important, and these are the backlogs and acceleration of the proceedings before the administrative courts, which is that the newly appointed first-degree judges besides their education are actually very valuable, to help solve the year and a little more lags in the Administrative Court. In order to revive some institutes that can't... be in a legal life, we'll probably make some interventions in the existing Law on Administrative Disputes and thus be closer to life and the law that you've supported so nicely today. What I've been getting from the amendments, I've read and they're really very, very well-stimulated. I think the importance of the Committee on Legislative Affairs and fellow respected representative Grbić is also affected. Allow them to come forward tomorrow, but they are almost acceptable to us to the greatest extent possible. I thank you for this almost I would like to say a consensus on the debate on professional issues but also issues that are not of marginal importance, but are really important for the affirmation of the rights of Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46069	I thank Mr. Secretary of State. And I am concluding a debate on this final bill, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Today we don't even have the conditions to discuss the next 9th item of the agenda, so we're going to skip it until these conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46070	Final proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes. The second question is, P.Z.E. Number 378. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Ivo Grbic and the Legislative Committee. I'd like a representative of the motionor, Mr. Zoran Piculjan, to be made aware of the amendments. The first legislative committee shall be referred to in Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46071	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46072	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46073	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46074	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And on Article 21 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46075	The same thing is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46076	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And Mr. Ivo Grbić on Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46077	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46078	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Thank you very much. Please, let's get on with it. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes. Let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 110 votes for, one vote abstention, and nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46079	And we go to the 10th point of the agenda, it is - The final draft law amending the law of origin, the geographical indications and the traditional reputation of agricultural and food products, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 492 Lawmakers is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. And on the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received reports from those committees at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the opening word? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Mr. Josip Kraljičković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46080	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. ... The Government of the Republic of Croatia briefly explain the proposed Act on Amendments to the Code of Geographical Origin and Marks of Traditional Privilege of Agricultural and Food Products. The law on geographical indications and marks of traditional reputation for agricultural and food products adopted this Assembly in 2008. In 2009, a law amending and supplementing the law was adopted and an error was detected in the provision of Article 41(2). And here's the mistake we saw. It has created misunderstandings in the conduct of inspection control operations and we have corrected that error, or the Government has corrected the amendment of the Law on designations of originality by means of a regulation. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Since it has expired, I propose that this law amending the law remove this error and thus remove the ambiguity or inability to implement the law in the part of the conduct of agricultural inspection operations, the food quality inspection carried out in the jurisdiction of this law by inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture. So I suggest that this proposed law on amendments to the law be adopted by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46081	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. We're going clubbing. First, the Croatian People's Party club. In the name of the club, a respected representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46082	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law proposing the adoption of an emergency procedure, which is actually about the adoption of a law replacing the regulation amending the said law. Namely, that Regulation amending the Law on designations of origin, designations of geographical origin and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products was adopted in early September 2009, so that at a time when this House of Higher House did not meet and was worth until 31.12.2009 and in accordance with the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions in the part of the Croatian Parliament. In itself, the adoption of this law is not disputed because such situations have been and will be because every year we pass the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the part of the Croatian Parliament that enables it. But when we look at the content of this law, we'll see that we're running this whole process because of a mistake, and I'm glad Mr. Secretary of State here said that it was a mistake that was subdued by the amendments and the addition of the law on designations of originality, etc., that I don't state the full name of this law that we passed on 19.6.2009. By way of derogation from Article 38(2), Article 38 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Now this was explained in this proposal as misunderstandings in the implementation of which they have inspections instead of being openly said at this time, and it openly says what is going on because such things have happened and in the future they will be more so than we have a large production of the law in view of compliance with the legislation of the European Union. Finally, MPs and representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support this amendment bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46083	Thank you very much. Next is the HDZ Club. On behalf of the club, respected representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46084	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. I welcome you all. Namely, a colleague from the CNS spoke of this amendment to the law, or this regulation, of this error which was undermined in the last amendment and addition of the law. However, since we believe in the HDZ Club that this is an extremely important area, that we must keep an eye on it, that it has a role not only in terms of increasing income not only in terms of increasing the competitiveness of our agricultural producers but also in particular in this pre-accession period, it is important also because of different exceptions and also because of the preservation of national identity. So I would also say a few words about this change itself, so this inspection surveillance that is planned and also about some trends that occur and phenomena that should be dealt with more intensively in order to eventually have as many protected products as possible. In fact, we have brought our legislation into line with EU legislation in the field of the protection of these traditional agricultural and food products through the Law on designations of originality, geographical indications and designations of traditional reputation from 2008 and its amendments and additions from 2009. We also agreed that by protecting and increasing the production of traditional products, we also have a certain national identity because these products are part of and culture and traditions of a region, they can learn a lot about the way of life, about the standard of life, about the history of a particular space of the Republic of Croatia. We can say that these are actually brands that are not the product of some kind of food trends or some kind of strong marketing, but that they simply play their part as part of tradition. Let us take just when we mention the tower we think of Slavonia, when we mention the prosciutto, we think of Dalmatia and Istria, but it is something that works among Croatian citizens, Croatian consumers and in part countries in the environment. But what should be our task is how to make these synonyms for a particular area, these food brands, so that they are also an association when we mention them in Germany, France, and that it is then the first association in Croatia or its specific area. So this should allow us both this law and the protection system that it prescribes. It is important that this protection is compatible with the countries of the European Union but it is also compatible with the protection system and the protection system, in particular in that part after those products are registered. It means that they are systematically monitored for their quality and technology, meaning that everything that is registered during that protection or more precisely the specification of that product is preserved. That is why it is important for us to make this amendment and the addition of the law because it regulates inspection supervision which we have failed to make by mistake last time where the agricultural inspection and inspection for the quality of food of the Ministry of Agriculture takes over inspection as referred to in Article 38, paragraph 8, so when the authorised certification body determines significant non-compliance with the specification. Just to remind ourselves, this certification body is carrying out a conformity check with the manufacturer's specification. Therefore, in a way it has been continuously authorised by the Ministry of Agriculture to monitor these products, monitor the preservation of quality standards that are registered and also that certification body must be accredited in accordance with Croatian standards. But it is certain that when we discuss this amendment and the addition of the law to further raise a few questions, and perhaps the main issue, which is the fact that in the Republic of Croatia we have only one product protected by the designation of origin and that product which, we food technologists could only say conditionally is food, therefore paška salt. Why is it that the protection mark has not been given so far to a tower, a barrage prosciutto, an Istrian prosciutto, a paška cheese, so those products that have already had national protection, or, for example, why it is not protected ogulinic acid cabbage, olive oil, liqueur potatoes and other products for which, as far as we have information, requests have been submitted. So the question is, why is it going so slowly? We can say that there are two key reasons. The first problem is to standardise production technology, product quality and increase production capacity. What we can say in this segment is that this is where significant steps have been made, that the producers have worked very closely with both science and profession, that the Ministry of Agriculture has supported this cooperation through various programmes and these projects, and that there has also been a lot of cooperation with foreign consultants from countries that have much greater and better experience. In particular, it was important to act on the manufacturer's awareness to understand what this protection system means, that it is actually a prerequisite for competitiveness on the market, greater earnings, higher income on the producer, etc. Another problem that needs to be dealt with safely in the future is the problem that has just shown itself in part of manufacturers and associations. In fact, it is still not sufficiently developed awareness that without joining producers of traditional products that they have no chance on the market, primarily because of the problem of small quantities, therefore insufficient production capacity, seasonal oscillations in the supply of the market to these products, but then the inequities of quality and differences in production technology which are precisely in this area very demanding consumers who are willing to pay them something more expensive, so they recognize it. It should be recalled that the system of protection, so in 99% of the cases applicants are exactly associations, so associations are the foundation. There is still an unreal fear among producers that it is in some way a potential competition or that it is not good for them, and there are even certain not only fears, but also conscious obstructions. But what is certain, traditional products, especially if they are included through the tourist offer, in the Republic of Croatia our traditional products are missing. This market is unused, therefore there is very much room for all manufacturers and their association absolutely needs to be supported, should be encouraged, should be strengthened and it poses no danger to their market space and therefore there should be further work, I would say, on the conscience of the manufacturer in order to protect as many of these products as possible. Our goal is to make these products a synonym such as champagne for Champagnu, iberian prosciutto for Andalusia or parmesan and parmanese prosciutto for the area of Italy around the city of Parma. More than 800 products are protected in the European Union. These products are recognizable, sometimes up to 100% more expensive than similar but unprotected products, have their own attractive market, especially among buyers of higher purchasing power and standards and are also an integral part of the tourist offer. And that is why, just in this pre-accession period, efforts need to be increased to protect as many products as possible. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports all the efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture, supports this amendment and complementarity, although it is a correction of one failure because it is important that continued monitoring is done through inspections, so agricultural food quality inspections, especially when it is alerted by a certification body that... the way to monitor that this entire system of protection, therefore, to achieve those standards, registered standards of these products to keep them constant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46085	Thank you very much. And the last club registered is the SDP club. Dear Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46086	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Allow a few notes regarding this amendment to the law, i.e. the confirmation of this regulation which has been spoken of and which has been adopted, we have already heard, not to repeat, for what reasons, because it has been missed in that part of the legislation. And I still have to say that although in the second half of 2008, we passed this law, and in the first half of 2009, we made changes, it was a large number of changes, I think about 65% of the articles were changing, it seems likely that this failure also occurred. But we see that, because of such a failure, the government should also adopt this regulation, because I think that this is one significant segment of the law, this particular jurisdiction and agricultural inspection and food quality inspections, and that it could also happen normally, that this change must also be introduced into this law. The prevention of these misunderstandings or of the implementation of this law in this part of the conduct of agricultural inspection and food quality inspections provided by this law, I think that even in previous discussions, or when we passed this law and even in amendments, we also stressed that this segment of inspection was very important. I then gave an amendment that was rejected by the Government, and I felt that it was precisely with that part that the amendment allowed the introduction and veterinary professions into this inspection section, to allow for even better control in the selection of raw materials and in the control of production. Because I believe that the more expertise and diversity of inspection controls creates even greater opportunities that we can reasonably use for the products of this particular label that we speak of, the designation of origin, the designation of geographical origin, the mark of the traditional reputation of agricultural food products. However, with such inspection jobs, we will also prevent the business of food business operators from doing business in breach of this law. We will also ensure that consumer interests are protected when it comes to agricultural and food products and which are registered and marked and protected by these designations of origin of geographical origin and traditional reputation. For that part and those inspection services, there should be one guarantee that these markings are and are what this product should contain. I also believe that the reputation in the production of quality food products is given by the European Union, and I also think that we should also achieve with the raw materials that we will create with us, which will be grown and which will be the result of a quality development of agricultural activity. This certainly means that these domestic indigenous products must be produced from locally known raw materials produced by all the standards required by modern agriculture. It all relates to each other to that part and to our development of agriculture. Just as we look at these stamps, I don't think they accidentally produced these three marks in the EU of quality, originality, geographical origin, the traditional reputation of our production, the way of production, because each stamp differs and given the accuracy of the characteristics of which the product must satisfy. But all three have a common goal of promoting the originality and sustainability of these products. That's exactly what Professor Fleischman is. Kovacevic spoke, the question of these brands that were created by us they can prove a lot about our production. But also if we export them in particular, they can destroy a lot if a product that is not made according to the norms required comes into the foreign market. At that time, the indignity and loss of the market is very present and secure and much has to be done to restore this product to such a single market. What is also characteristic that, after the adoption of this law, we have not yet certified these products, i.e. with these markings. I think we need to do this as soon as possible. This legislation is the first job we've already done, which, regardless of these changes, exists, and the second job is that we have to go along with the determination of these and the creation of our brands and put them on the market as soon as possible. The question in which way? The merger must be one of the forms. These culinary associations existed before these laws, etc. But I think what's more important and much more important is the question of the economic security of these producers. Because many have invested their resources, taken loans, and in the end many have failed as such because the security of the market has not been guaranteed, such conditions have not been created, and that is why I think that the market that is most important in order to create our brands and function. That's why I end up thinking that this change is also important for control and truthfulness, a declaration of this product with the quality paid for by the consumer. Therefore, the change related to inspection services guarantees that this quality and that mark, that they will have that quality that the declaration requires. I think that is why this change should also be supported and that the SDP club will vote to amend this law, support the amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46087	Thank you, Mr. Representative. This is the end of the club debate. The individual debate begins with a respected representative, Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46088	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the ministry, state secretaries with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Government programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008/2011 In the area of village, agriculture and food, the strategic importance of the food industry in the Republic of Croatia is the need to further strengthen the competitiveness of the products of this sector and link it to the primary production of agricultural products and to use its own potential and to ensure domestic product, and to reduce imports and increase exports to the European and world markets in the long term. Many of the measures envisaged to achieve this are further harmonisation of Croatian legislation for the area of protection of indigenous agricultural and food products with the legislation of the European Union, as well as the implementation of the registration and designation of origin, geographical indications and the designation of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products. It is the law on the designations of origin that this House adopted in 2008, that the 2009 amendments unites these two measures under the said programme. And I will recall that this law also provides for a procedure for the protection of designations of origin and geographical origin of agricultural and food products at national level, a procedure for the protection of traditional reputation at national level, a procedure for the application for registration of designations of origin and geographical indications at European Union level has been established, a procedure for the adoption of an application for registration of traditional reputation at European Union level. However, the method of official controls and the determination of compliance with the product specification has also been established. And in this way, it is possible to bring the new regulations into line, two Council Regulations and two Commissions, but better harmonisation with the relevant European Union regulations is also possible. It also allows this legislative proposal to extend the legal framework for protection and to agricultural products not intended for human consumption. But I believe it wasn't just this reason for the law to be passed and its amendments. The real reasons I see in our vast untapped possibilities, right here in this area. The protection of designations of origin, geographical indication and the designation of traditional reputation, as form and intellectual property rights, you will agree with me not being used enough. In particular, the possibility of installing additional value in products with special quality is not sufficiently used. During the implementation of that law, shortcomings were observed, as well as errors which simply, which were observed, i.e. inconsistencies during inspection supervision. This proposal also aims to correct the error of the law, i.e. to remove ambiguities in the implementation of the laws in respect of cases where agricultural inspection and food quality inspections are carried out in matters which are within its jurisdiction and thereby prevent the business of food operators, where they do not comply with the provisions of the laws and regulations adopted on the basis of it, and also to ensure and protect the interests of consumers in the case of agricultural and food products registered and protected by the designation of origin, the designation of geographical origin and the designation of traditional reputation. I believe that this is also the best protection for producers that will maintain the required quality, visibility and ensure the added value of the product and thus increase the source of income. By encouraging the production of such products and promoting them, rural economies can be significantly contributed to the development of less developed areas, here in particular in the Zadar County, there is a space for development on the islands, the flats, Bukovica and Liki, but also by including those in the tourism and market offers of the Republic of Croatia. So let this debate of mine today be an incentive for us to at least extract some of that heritage, register and protect and proudly bring it into the heritage of the European Union. And finally, on the example of the island of Pag, I will show that from one end of the world, the top product of paška lace is produced, which is protected at the world level, as a drop of sheep's milk produces an exceptional product of paprika cheese, as olive fruits produce top oil, from grains of salt, high quality products, and from grains of grapes, excellent wine. So let that be the way for the rest of us, and on us and here to create a framework so that something like that can be realized. And this bill of law is in line with that, which is why I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46089	Thank you very much. The second and last individual debate is for the esteemed representative, Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46090	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law allows manufacturers in the Republic of Croatia to have the same protection for products that producers in the European Union have, as well as their market visibility. This indirectly achieves one of the priority objectives of Croatian agricultural policy, which is to raise the level of competitiveness of domestic production. Due to climate and geographical diversity, and rich cultures and traditions there are a large number of products that would because of technological, food and... specificities should be protected as indigenous to traditional appearance, geographical origin or originality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to adequate protection and the establishment of a model system for the European Union, these products should become a significant export brand, especially through a tourist offer. Since the protection of indigenous food products, in accordance with European rules, is a very demanding and complex procedure for manufacturers, and the resolution ministry should further encourage and assist manufacturers and educate them. If we have about a thousand products protected throughout the European Union, it must clearly be the interest of our producers. Encouraging the production of protected indigenous products, as well as their promotion, could significantly contribute to the rural economy, especially in areas with smaller opportunities or remote areas, in such a way as to have an impact on the increase in income for these economies, and the retention of rural populations in these areas. Pag cheese is part of the tourist offer not only on the island of Pag, but also significantly wider, it makes a significant part of the island's economy, but this is also an example of how production in family economies affects the increase in income, but also the retention of the population, which is very important and important. Ivan Gligora, owner of the siren, siren, small cheese from Kolan produces about 200 tonnes of cheese per year, 50 tonnes of paška cheese. The cheese contained in that siren carries the original Croatian certificate, the protection of geographical origin and the label of the Croatian island product. In addition to the many awards he has won so far, meaning this summer, the cheese is crowned with a gold medal of the Brussels Quality Institute. Why am I mentioning all this about a Little Mermaid siren from the Cologne? The same gentleman has given himself the right to go to an investment of about 3m euros in these difficult times, and says a small cheese family company in which the tradition will continue the son of Shima, who finished milking at the Faculty of Agriculture. He's found himself in our business, and it's actually one of the reasons we got into this big investment. Here is an example in Croatia that should follow others, so I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46091	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this final bill. We'll vote on him when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46092	Final proposal of the Act amending the Law on designations of origin, geographical indications and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural, food products. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 492. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted unanimously with 112 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46093	We're going to the next item on the agenda. This is – - The final proposal of the Law on the validation of the multiannual financing agreement 2007. – 2010 between the Commission of the European Communities on behalf of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 493 The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by post, and on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure of the Emergency Procedure unites the first and second readings, and you can submit amendments until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. You received a report from the board at the session, and the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Mr. Josip Kraljičković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46094	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs and respected parliamentary MPs, I will briefly explain the proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of a Multi-annual Agreement. This law confirms a multiannual financing agreement between the European Communities Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, signed on 24 July 2009. Why is this law very important to us, especially for the area of agriculture? Because it is the basis for the free use of financial resources to be used under the programme "IPA - Component 5 Rural Development". Multi-annual financing agreement for the period 2007 – 2010 sets out the conditions necessary for the delivery of assistance to the European Community, the rules and procedures relating to payment relating to this aid and the conditions under which such assistance will be managed. Total value of the programme "IPA – component 5 rural development" in the period 2007. - 2010 amounts to 999 million 369 thousand kuna. 75% of this value is secured by the EU and 25% by the Republic of Croatia's budget. The funds have been provided in our budget since 2009 until 2013. What's important to emphasize? If we take into account the resources available for this year for our agriculture, which means almost a billion kuna from the state budget for agriculture in this year, then we can say that so far, these are the largest funds available for agriculture in Croatian history. We hope that we can make good on this together, that means we can use it. We suggest that this law be passed as it is said by an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46095	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. We're going clubbing. A SDP club, respected representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46096	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State. I'm really going to be 5 minutes short, SDP of course, you measure 5 minutes. The SDP club supports the adoption of this law, of course, because every kuna, every euro that can come is welcome to Croatia. In 2010, the EU, of course, will finance thousands and thousands of projects of almost 75 billion euros at the level of the entire Union, when all funds are seen, and which state would ultimately not want one part of the money for its project needs from the meaning of the EU, the common budget. Here we actually support a bill of direct benefit from agricultural entrepreneurs and hopefully a unit of local self-government. At the end of the entire IPA programme, exactly 5 components of IPARD and 2 components through which cross-border cooperation is the 2 that allow citizens of this Republic, our countries, to feel positive about the benefits of the EU, because concrete projects themselves work in the area of the municipality, cities where they live. Here this advantage is measured by IPARDA billion kuna, a total of nearly a billion kuna. I won't talk too much about measures, you know that measures can be in cattle farming itself, in fruit growing, in winemaking, in olive growing, from growing itself, storage to mini oil, mini slaughterhouses, etc., not to speak too much. Here is also an important measure 3 that will allow local self-government units to co-finance construction unless I'm wrong about sewers, roads and mini heat. So this measure is extremely important for local self-government units. Long-term benefits when we're talking about IPARD in general, there's really a lot about IPI. IPA teaches us and prepares us naturally for structural funds. When you look at the EU's agricultural policy, you will realize that almost all I think about is 36% of the EU's total budget, in a way related to agriculture, which, with a direct boost to the development of agriculture, but also what we have already talked about in the Assembly and as a social key for small farmers, as we now see from this example and for local self-government units themselves. We have a little more time, but we still have it to finish getting ready because we need to create strong capacity for the IPARD agency. We need to strengthen the capacity of local self-government units. Some are now ready for measure 3, some are still not ready for measure 3. It must not happen to us that fate should not happen to us if I do not cheat within the SAPARDA as well as a measure that has been linked to units of local self-government where actually cities and municipalities have lost a lot because we have not done some work in time. So that's not supposed to happen to us with the IPARD. It means strengthening the capacities of local agencies and, of course, providing all possible assistance to farmers and units of local self-government. Through education, but also through financial assistance that can go to make as much money as possible, to make our farmers profit, so that the local self-government unit can profit. So, in the end, we're gonna support this law and I think five minutes are up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46097	Thank you very much. 4.5 minutes have passed. Now it's HSS Representatives' Club. Dear Representative Zdravko Kelić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46098	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. With the Commission of the European Community, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has concluded an agreement on rules for cooperation in relation to the financial assistance of the European Commission to the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of assistance under component 5 of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance laying down detailed rules for the implementation and management of the IPARD programme. This Agreement is a necessary prerequisite for the launch of measures and agreements of the instrument to assist the standard content on the basis of which the appropriations can be realised and is intended to be concluded with all the receiving countries of this form of financial assistance. It sets out the technical, legal and administrative framework in which the measures financed in the Republic of Croatia under the IPA pre-accession assistance instrument are to be implemented and it is established that the financial obligations arising from the Republic of Croatia comply with the provisions of the rules on the implementation of the national budget over the years in which the IPARD will be implemented. The IPARD programme is scheduled for the period from 2007 to 2013. However, at the time of entry into the European Union, its use shall be suspended. Based on the rules of implementation on the proposal of the Monitoring Committee for the Programmes following the approval of the European Commission, road users may be authorised to implement it under the rules... plus 3 which means that, from the current year of the next 3 years, agreed funds may also be used to take account of the planning of the state budget reserved for the implementation of the programme. Overall, for rural development within the IPARD programme, 184, 37 million euros will be located, allowing for the coordination of not only the agricultural sector with the acquis of the European Union, but also the adaptation of other users in the rural area Namely, these will allow for the improvement of the agricultural holding, crafts or companies, but also those whose agriculture is not the primary activity. In addition, one of the objectives of measures within the IPAR programme is the retention of the young population in the rural area, which is important due to the reduction of the negative consequences of the depopulation that Croatia has been facing for several decades. In fact, it is hardly possible to keep young people where they cannot get a job and earn a living. And by encouraging economic activity in the rural area, this is exactly what will be possible. On the other hand, the development of agricultural production contributes to the development of other activities, and it is particularly important to raise the quality of the product. The aim of the IPARD programme is also to strengthen administrative capacity in order to make the best use of the funds available to Croatia by entering the European Union. It is important to point out that this programme, and with the resources provided for in the budget so far, will provide the largest available funding for agriculture, which will certainly contribute to the development of the agricultural production that is undoubtedly needed in a situation where food prices on the world market are no doubt needed. The accession of the European Union to our farmers will also open up a number of opportunities, and we hope that this type of support will make good use of it. Due to all this above, the Croatian Peasant Party's representative will also support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46099	Thank you very much. And the last club to apply for this debate is the HDZ club, the respected representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46100	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here comes this bill of law, anyway, we've heard a lot about it by now. We know that on 25 February 2008, the Commission of the European Communities adopted an IPARD programme for Croatia, which is a component of the 5th IPA. It is certainly necessary for the Commission of the European Communities and the Government to conclude an agreement in order to determine the conditions necessary to grant assistance to the European Community and rules and procedures. What is very important here is that the allocations will be done according to a decentralised model, which means that the competent institutions implement the programme, that there are administrative bodies of the implementing agency for this component. What's important to say here is that it's almost billions of kuna. The total value is 999 million 369 thousand. 75% of the funds for the period 2007 to 2010 are 749 million 527 thousand, and the rest of the 25% should be allocated from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, as we have already heard from the Secretary of State. What is important is to say that these strengthen the important agricultural economies, that the direct impact on the demographic image of the Croatian village will happen through these funds. The units of local self-government, i.e. cities, municipalities and counties will also benefit directly from these funds, and we have heard in particular about measure three, which allows cities and municipalities to engage in infrastructure projects, and of course what is most important to stress is the benefit for small agricultural entrepreneurs. What we need to say here is that we need to strengthen the capacity of local self-government units. This is what we are all working on, to strengthen the capacities of local development agencies, the biggest emphasis is on education in order to make the entire Croatia profit from this. But this may be the first time that you will feel direct, concrete assistance on the ground and that our citizens, especially farmers here and small entrepreneurs, will understand what this means is directly benefiting from the European Union's funds. Our club, a Croatian Democratic Community club, supports this bill, especially for the reason that this is the largest available funding in 2010 for agriculture in recent times, i.e. since the Croatian state. And what does it matter? Because we ourselves know that food prices on the world market are growing every day, so it is very important that we have developed domestic farms and that we produce food on our own market. Once again, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46101	Thank you very much. And we have another individual debate, the word has a respected representative, Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46102	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The European Commission has submitted a draft text of the agreement enabling the provision of European Union financial resources under the IPA Five Rural Development Programme. I will remind myself that IPA is an instrument of pre-accession assistance for the period 2007 to 2013 replacing CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD and established by Council Regulation No 1085/2006 and its financial value for the seven-year period and for all beneficiary countries is €11.5 billion. The main objectives of the IPA programme are to assist candidate countries and countries potential candidates in harmonising national legislation and implementing the acquis of the European Union and preparing for the use of structural and cohesion funds. I will also remind you that the Republic of Croatia is a beneficiary of all components of the IPA programme from 2007 until the moment of entry into EU membership and therefore the amount of EUR 589.9 million of which makes the Rural Development Component 18% of this amount a continuation of the SAPARD programme. The Rural Development Component shall support preparatory activities for participation in the common agricultural policy and rural development. More detailed cooperation rules are laid down by the law on the confirmation of the 2008 Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission under component 5 of IPARD. The IPARD programme has been subsequently approved and amended. And now, in order to implement the programme, it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities to sign an agreement in order to lay down the conditions for granting assistance, rules and procedures in relation to payment and, less importantly, under which conditions this assistance will be managed. The total value of the IPA component 5 rural development programme in the period 2007-2010 is slightly less than a billion kuna. 75% of the funds, or about 750 million kuna, are provided by the European Union and the Republic of Croatia remains 25%. It is precisely providing sufficient funding for the conditions we must meet for the withdrawal of EU funds. The implementation of the agreement therefore requires additional funding from the state budget. The main objective of the adoption of this law is therefore to regulate the financing of the IPARD programme. Although the IPARD programme is scheduled for the period 2007 to 2013 and is interrupted at the time of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the Monitoring Committee, with the consent of the European Commission, has enabled the Member States of the programme to use previously authorised funds under rule N plus 3 which I believe is extremely good. I believe it is also well pointed out that in October 2009 the European Union accepted a financial package for the Republic of Croatia of 2.2 billion euros. It is 20 times more than the Republic of Croatia has received through the IPA pre-accession fund in the last two years. In order to make successful use of these funds, it is necessary to seriously complete preparations primarily relating to the professionalisation and training of people involved in contracts, competitions, supervision of funds of the fund but we must speed up preparations for projects that must be ready by 2012. At this point, it is a great responsibility, therefore, for us to identify priority areas and select projects. It's the hard part of the job, but we have to, and it's high time to deal with it. Therefore, I call on this time to make the best use of the other IPA components of the special component 1 by transitioning and building institutions and the 4 component of human potential development. Here's the conclusion. So, we have a job ahead of us, and we need to get a proper organization of the state administration. We have space, we still have time for the most efficient use of funds, but more importantly, prepare for a new functioning because by entering the European Union, Croatia will participate on a daily basis in the creation of a common European policy and therefore we need to be prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46103	Thank you very much. Now the proposing representative, State Secretary Josip Kraljickovic, will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46104	Honorable MPs. I thank you for a very useful and encouraging debate from which you can read that you give full support to the proposed law and the activities undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture. I'd just like to brief you on the short notice that a tender has been opened for the first two measures, measures 101 and 103, that the tender is open until 4 March of this year. And all the information relevant for the implementation of the IPARD programme is printed brochures, lenses, radio, TV videos, so we have such hot guides that can be obtained in all the places where agriculture is discussed or where our service is a agricultural advisory or Croatian agricultural agency. Also, on our website you can get detailed information about all the activities undertaken and everything that is important for the implementation of the programme. We've got one amendment here. On behalf of the promoter, I accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee and I thank everyone for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46105	Thank you very much. We have heard that the Proposer accepts the amendment of the Committee on Law making it an integral part of the final draft law. And I hereby conclude the debate, and we will vote on this final proposal when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46106	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Multiannual Funding Agreement 2007. – 2010 between the Commission of the European Community on behalf of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 493. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the multiannual financing agreement, etc. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted unanimously, with 110 votes, along with amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46107	Today or tonight, we'll open up more and the next item of the agenda. - Proposal for a law on radiological and nuclear security, with a final bill of law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 494 The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. You can put up with the amendments until the end of this debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received reports from the board at the session. Proposer representative State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare Ante Zvonimir Golem has the opportunity to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46108	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In the Republic of Croatia, the area of radiological protection, therefore the protection against ionising radiation, is regulated by the Law on protection against ionising radiation in which the law and European directives have clearly laid down rules on how to apply, export, imports to the way of control of that system. According to this law, the State Air Protection Office, which we have prepared for today, is a small set of statistics and should be said in accordance with this institution, so the State Air Protection Office has so far issued solutions for imports of radioactive isotopes and other exports of ionising radiation. On the other hand, the Department of Health and Social Care of the Department of Sanitary Control has been monitoring sources of ionizing radiation. Various solutions from the area of radiation protection were issued in 2008 with approximately 3.5 thousand solutions for imports of radioactive isotopes and other sources of ionising radiation around 360. At the same time, the Sanitary Health Ministry inspection carried out more than 550 inspection controls establishing the regularity of use and issuing a solution to the State Department for radiation protection. In addition to this activity, the State Air Protection Office has also monitored dosimetry and is currently in the Register of the State Department for radiation protection of 5 thousand 477 persons being monitored in view of their work with sources of ionising radiation or if they work in the space in which they are exposed or if they work in the area in which they are exposed to ionising radiation. On the other hand, nuclear security is an area solved by the Nuclear Safety Act where the difference between radiation from ionising means the source of ionising radiation of nuclear radiation is translated as radiation produced in the nuclear fuel cycle, and according to the law dealing with this problem, the State Nuclear Safety Institute, which was responsible for inspection of possible use or any other process related to nuclear radiation. In 2008, about a hundred dual-purpose goods licenses were issued and inspections were also carried out on places with nuclear material in 2008. 24 and 2009 23. I specifically state all this data because over the years, with good work, and these are safety indicators, there was a situation where a good part of the jurisdiction between the two institutions was overlapping. For this reason, today we present a proposal for a single Radiological and Nuclear Security Act, which takes elements and laws on radiation protection and the Nuclear Safety Act, which, apart from the implementation of all regulations under one and another law, as it has been so far, establishes a single Service for Radiological and Nuclear Security which will in a completely identical way continue to monitor all types of radiation as it has been so far and regardless of the source of radiation, thus uniting jurisdiction within one institution. In particular, it should be stressed that the nuclear part of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Safety is part of which, in addition to the European Union Directive, falls under certain Directives of the European Atomic Energy Agency, unlike which protection from ionising radiation is directly related to European Union directives. This proposal for a law is in line with the European Union directives and those Directives of the European Atomic Energy Agency to that extent, if it is as a legal proposal and could be, as it will be, more fully in line with the adoption of sub-legislative rules under this law. The sublegal rules adopted under the existing two laws were in full compliance with the Directive at those times. In particular, it should be noted that there is only one part of a minor change, which is that the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Department of Sanitary Inspection, which is still included in the inspection supervision, has no inspection control over the nuclear part, because according to the 2009 Directive, the inspection procedure is carried out on its own within the framework of the National Nuclear Safety Authority. For all other questions, we can give an answer during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46109	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here's on behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the board, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee discussed this law as a home working body and the opening statement was given by a proposing representative. As noted at the beginning of the debate, the adoption of this law adopts criteria relating to strengthening and optimising administrative capacity in the field of nuclear security and protection against ionising radiation. By uniting the responsibilities of the so far-called State Nuclear Safety Institute and the State Department for radiation protection into one regulatory body, two important areas of protection are joined into one. A partial overlap is also avoided within their activities, and a council is established, not only for nuclear but also for radiological security. All these measures are of particular importance in the light of the fact that medical radiation sources are the largest source of ionising radiation to the population, which are also on a steady rise, and therefore the Committee supports the adoption of this law. In the opinion of the Committee members, it is extremely important to prescribe procedures for the disposal of radioactive waste, used closed radioactive sources, sources of ionising radiation that are not intended to be further used and spent nuclear fuel. In addition to the establishment of a special public service for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, basics for systematic implementation, monitoring and revision of the radioactive waste management strategy and spent nuclear fuel have been set up. During the discussion, the committee members also referred to the provisions establishing an exemption from the authorisation requirement, i.e. the authorisation to use the source of ionising radiation. The opinion of the members of the Committee is that these exceptions apply in cases where the total activity or concentration of radionuclide activity involved in the activity does not exceed the value set out in the Regulation adopted by the Director of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security, with the agreement of the Minister of Health. On education, Article 29 prescribes appropriate education that workers must have and special expertise to be given to workers handling sources of ionising radiation. However, it has been observed in the debate, workers exposed to ionising radiation do not need to have appropriate and special expertise on the application of ionising radiation protection measures as workers who handle sources of ionising radiation. As provided for by law, inspection supervision is divided between the Ministry of Health and the State Department for Radiological and Nuclear Security. However, the debate also raises the question of the need for inspection supervision of the work of an institution that has very high powers in both ionising radiation protection and regulation and the like. Article 81(2) provides that inspectors of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security shall appoint the Director of the Office. However, no conditions are provided for in this article as well as in the following, in terms of professional training and training, i.e. some other skills that inspectors must fulfil, in the same way as prescribed for sanitary inspectors. All proposed security and protection measures, radiological and nuclear, allow adequate care and protection of individuals, societies and the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation and safe operation with sources of ionising radiation, nuclear activities, radioactive waste management and physical security of sources of ionising radiation and nuclear objects. After the discussion, board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of three amendments. First, Article 11(1) behind the word "security" adds the words "with the agreement of the health minister. It is therefore that the exemption from the authorisation to carry out the activity would take the source of radiation defined by the regulation adopted by the Director of the State Administration, with the consent of the Minister of Health. It's the logic of all the other sublegal acts in this law. Amendment two is nomotechnically coordinated. In Article 29(3), the words "special vocational education" shall be replaced by the words "education referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article". Amendment three is also content. In Article 81(1), the point shall be deleted and the words "those who have at least three years of working experience in the profession" shall be added. This determines that the inspector appointed by the Director of the State Department of Radiological and Nuclear Security, with all professional assumptions, should have at least three years of experience in the profession. In this way, the Committee supports this law and proposes its adoption with the adoption of these three amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46111	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the chairman of the committee, Mr. Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the Ministry. At the 27th session held on 27 January 2010, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 17 December 2010, with a proposal to comply with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. In its opening statement, the Proposer's representative pointed out that the adoption of this law was a criterion for closing the negotiating chapter 15. – Energy since it brings the area of nuclear safety and protection against ionising radiation into line with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. several Council directives in that area. In accordance with the proposed law, a single regulatory body shall also be established by the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security, and its independence, administrative and professional capacity shall be ensured. The proposed law fully regulates the issue that has so far been regulated by the Law on the Protection of Ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionising radiation, "The National Journal" No. 64/06. and the Law on Nuclear Safety "The People's News" No. 173. The debate on the Committee supports the adoption of this law and is related to a regulation laying down the conditions for designing, building, use, and the removal of buildings containing sources of ionising radiation or carrying out activities with sources of ionising radiation, the Committee unanimously proposed an amendment. It has been proposed to the Proposer to consider, in order to be clear and unequivocal, the need to supplement the statement in Article 63. It has also been discussed in the scope of inspection tasks entrusted to radiological and nuclear safety inspectors of the State Department of Radiological and Nuclear Security, as well as Sanitary inspections of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, as referred to in Article 80(1) and (2). After the debate was held, the board voted five votes in favour, two votes against the decision to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of radiological, nuclear safety laws together with the next amendment. In Article 33(3), the words "and the Minister of Health" are added behind the words "building". Explanation. That amendment proposes that a regulation laying down the conditions for the design, construction, use and removal of buildings containing sources of ionising radiation or carrying out activities with sources of ionising radiation be carried out by the Director of the State Department of Radiological and Nuclear Security, with the agreement of the Minister responsible for Construction and Minister of Health, in a section relating to physical security and the Minister of Internal Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46113	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate by having a club debate tonight. Three registered clubs and tomorrow an individual hearing, for now five individual debates have been reported. So we're going clubbing. First of all, the SDP club, the respected representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46114	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, honored to the Director of the State Department for radiation protection, your nuclear security colleague is missing. Here, finally, we have a law that I have personally advocated for many years, which is to rationalise the activity that deals with radiation protection and nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia, that is to establish a single administrative body that deals with the problem, and in this case has considerable expertise, I would dare say scientific advice, and even instruments to carry out certain measurements in the environment or in some institutions, hospitals, etc. I regret to say again that in the process of passing this law, there are no more significant contacts between professional associations, which is a pity, because professional associations are the ones that can give one added value to certain laws and rules, gathering the most educated, most professional people who are still engaged in science in this case, so listen to them is actually the voice of reason. So unfortunately Croatian radiation protection company has not been consulted. For the Croatian nuclear society, I have no record of whether they have received the law in the early enough so that they can make certain remarks. I did this to them personally, the law as such can be said to significantly improve the situation in the Republic of Croatia regarding radiation science issues. I am also very pleased that recent radiation science has been recognized as a separate field related to the possibility of advances in the calling of scientists at institutes and universities, which is what came out a month ago in "The National Journal", and will also allow certain scientific research related to multidisciplinary, hopefully with the help of this establishment. And everything would be fine if it weren't for a certain but. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Health and Social Affairs Ministry inspection, it is intended to carry out inspection controls on the implementation of radiation measures, the protection against ionising radiation in relation to medical radiation, health checks and the radiation of exposed workers and the radiation of the population. Therefore, Article 80 of the Treaty on the The Ministry of Health retains the inspection of radioactive sources, which are also owned by it, which is an inadmissible conflict of interest and in countless times I was personally involved in certain negotiations with negotiators from Europe, and also with top officials of the International Atomic Energy Agency, so the EEA in Vienna where its Excellency, the general, director-general, so General Mohammed ElBaradai was dissatisfied with the legal decisions in the Republic of Croatia concerning the independence of the regulatory body dealing with radiation protection and nuclear security. The EAEA's position is that the body is independently, if financed from the budget, and is able to ensure the implementation of its decisions, and the means of implementing its decisions is just an inspection so that there is no situation of cadiya suing, that the ministry itself has the possibility, I'm not saying that this would happen and that it would happen, but the possibility that it could happen, let's say, to forgive some situations and inconsistencies related to sources of radiation, so also to implement measures and control and control elections. Therefore, this article should still be corrected, in a way that ensures the full independence of this body in its formation and I hope that the ruling majority will try to resolve this in a satisfactory manner and will essentially be dependent on whether the SDP club will support this law. Once again, I repeat that it is quite inappropriate and too bad that the experts and members of the Croatian Society for radiation protection did not little bit comb the law, because there are some situations that lawmakers are trying to change and natural laws, when they say, for example, that the fission of the severe atomic core is in two approximately identical cores. Now I don't know why it has to be fixed in law, when it's not necessary, it's not necessarily true. It's true in most cases, it's statistical truth, but it's not necessarily true in all cases. It's weirder why, let's say, this was introduced into general terms, into this rodent, when a fission is searched by that search function by the text of the whole law essentially no longer mentions anywhere. So here's another exotic of our administrative organizations and the ministry that maybe we should enter the Guiness Book of Records, if we change in Croatian law, the Assembly of Physical Laws that they might be changed in reality. So there are other such situations, but that doesn't change the scale of the law and the good intention, but I say we should strengthen this or improve this Article 80(2). I will also personally give some amendment regarding the situation that the Minister of Health is giving an opinion almost everything, so it would be, or it would give consent almost to all the activities of this law. Still, in some situations it would be more appropriate to give his opinion through his professional services. Otherwise, if it gives consent to, the agreement is mentioned in almost 15 out of 100 articles, so it practically restricts the work of the Institute and narrows its independence, which is contrary to the International Atomic Energy Agency's position, so it could question as much as possible the already closed area of consumer and health protection, Chapter 28, and possibly energy. So I ask Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Director of the State Department for radiation protection to consider the new pronunciation of Article 2. 80 and if this is settled satisfactorily tomorrow, the SDP club will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46115	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by State Secretary Ante Zvonimir Golem, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I would refer to the exposure and give maybe one explanation because I think there's been some confusion. So maybe I'll paint it a little bit. Permissions for importing the source of ionising radiation as well as authorisations for the use of the source of ionising radiation, permits for the space in which the sources of ionising radiation will be used shall be granted by the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security. The Republic of Croatia has no ownership, at least not the Ministry of Health sources. Sources are owned by hospitals owned by the county. Sources are owned by health homes owned by the county, but sanitary inspections by the health ministry that controls, controls exactly these sources and controls the citizens' exposure. If that part of the inspection were given exactly as was now proposed in the State Administration then the same office that issues the work permit would be controlled, which gives us a practical situation to avoid, which we have avoided this very way, and that is that the same one who approves of himself and controls it well and whether what he has approved has therefore caused some side effect. For this reason, we remain with the proposal that jobs with ionising radiation sources carried out by the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security should control these transactions against all institutions, regardless of who owns them, and I repeat, the state hospitals we call own. These are legal entities in the Republic of Croatia with their registration and, as such, the only independent control of these sources is through the system of sanitary inspections, and it is not possible that the state institution itself controls it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46117	Thank you very much. And for the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zdenko Franic came forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46118	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, I didn't even say it was supposed to be in the State Department. It may be in the state inspectorate, but it is unacceptable for the Ministry of Health to control its hospitals and sources in its possession through its sanitary inspection which is part of the ministry. As far as this part of nuclear security is concerned, it is consistent as paradoxically as possible, but it is in line with European directives to keep that part of the inspectorate in the state office. But this part about hospitals would be more appropriate to resolve in accordance with the solutions that are present in Europe through some independent inspectorate or some... An inspection or some other way, not to be controlled by the Department of Health on principle when I sue when I judge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46119	Thank you very much. This difference in opinion on this issue will be easier tomorrow in an individual solution than through correcting an incorrect quote. Now it's the next second club, the registered HNS club. Honorable representative of Danica Hursa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46120	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable state secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that representatives and representatives of the HNS Club will support the bill. Under this law, applicable laws on protection against ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionising radiation from 2006 and the 2003 Nuclear Safety Act are in place. The proposal for this law is a harmonisation of domestic legislation with the EU acquis and is related to Chapter 15. Energy. In the field of this law, the criteria to be met are: strengthening and optimising administrative capacities in the field of nuclear security and protection against ionising radiation and adopting a national strategy for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. These are therefore 2 basic criteria contained in the 6 directives that need to be aligned with our legislation. Let me count them, I think it's very important. The first is the directive establishing a common framework for nuclear safety of nuclear installations. The second directive is on basic safety standards for the protection of workers' health and the public against the dangers of ionising radiation. The third directive is on the control and control of shipments of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. The fourth is about health care from ionising radiation during medical radiation. The Fifth is talking about informing the public about the protection measures and the procedures to be taken in the event of an extraordinary event. And the sixth is about controlling highly active closed radioactive sources and sources without owners. The proposed law establishes a single regulatory body. That's what my predecessors said a lot, I'll just say it ensures his independence and administrative and professional capacitation according to the criteria of the negotiating chapter 15. The basics for systematic implementation, monitoring and revision of the radioactive waste management strategy and spent nuclear fuel are also laid down in accordance with the criteria set out in the said negotiating chapter 15. The proposed law does not apply to the natural level of ionising radiation originating in the universe, the crust of the earth or humans if it is not changed by human activity. The provisions of this law relating to the composition of radioactive substances shall not apply to food and their composition, the composition of which shall be determined by specific regulations. Also, the provisions of this law do not apply to the import and export of medicinal products. And finally, let's repeat what this law applies to. This legislative proposal regulates security measures, protection against ionising radiation and physical security in carrying out nuclear activities and activities with sources of ionising radiation. Using appropriate protection for the individuals of society and the environment. It is also possible to safely carry out activities with sources of ionising nuclear activities of radioactive waste management and physical security of sources of ionising radiation and nuclear objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46121	Thank you very much. And the club debate will end the HDZ Club. In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46122	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us a new united and according to European Union guidelines, a tailored law that treats a particular important area, an area of protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security. I must say, Croatia has a beautiful tradition in this. We passed the first law, where Dr. Kubelka was in '92. Or third. We founded the Croatian Institute at the time. Which ones did we bring? '93. and then we established a Croatian radiation protection agency, established communication with all European and world bodies, established a record of the source of radiation, control of sources of records of persons exposed to radiation, dosimetry, health checks and all that really takes place in those difficult war years, I think we've done a big job. Today is before us I hope for the final harmony. The coordination in which two major areas are united, i.e. the area of radiological and nuclear security, in a way that creates one central state body. The law also provides for the establishment of a council at the state level, it is the advisory body of the Croatian Parliament. So far, there has been such a council for nuclear security, and now there is a council for radiological and nuclear security, so for both areas and it has its defined tasks, objectives and method of choice. And I think it's a good and significant quality step. As far as the National Institute of Radiological and Nuclear Security is concerned, it will certainly be more rational than the two institutions so far. However, there are a whole series of possible remarks that are most in line with European regulations, but are quite illogical. That's what we're talking about tonight. So, first of all, it's a body that has huge powers, it's a body that produces sublegal acts in this law, there's several dozen of them, it's a body that carries out everything that's prescribed, and it's a body that does a lot of part of the inspection work itself in that nuclear part. But there's still a whole series of things that can be discussed, but there's no time for it because the law has to be passed, so I'd set up a few dilemmas, point out a few problems. First of all, sublaws are normally passed by the Director of the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security, and the agreement is given by the Minister in charge of Health. I think that's good. I will explain why, although there have been conflicting objections here, because education, health education is increasingly important in protecting the public from sources of radiation, from modern sources of radiation in everyday medical radiological practice, which will be said a few words later. What is good is that any such source needs approval, in particular the approval granted by the State Administration, that it also needs permission to use such resources and that there are exceptions. So at low-value sources, these exceptions are defined. For the area of radiological security, they are defined in the law itself, and for the area of nuclear safety will be defined by a sublegal act, i.e. a regulation for... radiological security. These are therefore devices for which no approval is required, which do not produce a greater difference in voltage than 30 kilovolts, i.e. do not give us 0.1 meters of distance more than one microheat per hour. Why is it defined here in the law and for nuclear safety in the rule? The legislator probably has his reasons. It sounds a little illogical but there's one thing that can be tolerated and one that's inconsistencies. What should be mentioned here is to highlight protection from ionizing radiation with three characteristics. This is primarily justification, which means that the use of ionising radiation or nucleide must be justified and must create greater benefit from the damage that the source can do, optimisation, use as low as possible, therefore, by the principle of alars and the restriction of radiation in the manner prescribed by this law. Here I would now say why I think the Ministry of Health should remain in inspection control of this part sew from ionizing radiation in the state administration itself, but with a system of consent to all the regulations. I'll just mention a multi-layer CT device that today is becoming everyday and there's not a single hospital or the lowest rank that can function without it today. Multiple CTs were introduced into practice a few years ago. It flooded the world because of its huge ionistic advantages, but it's a time bomb. Then there's such a source of ionizing in this case of X-ray that he's definitely not in our place or in the world right now. I'll just mention a few details. There are about 100 million hits in the world each year with a device like this. In developed countries between 20 and 30% of the population is irradiated on such a device every year, with a dose of between 25 and 80 millilverts. If we were to add it all together, we'd get a couple of nice explosions of atomic bombs every year. So one such examination corresponds to, say, 400 lung scans. And for the lung scan, we have strict regulations when and how the patient submits to her, and this is one examination that gives a dose of 400 shots of the lungs. Within a few minutes, it's the dose of the day. And today it is believed that multiple CTs give more than 70% of the dose, total doses of all medical sources of radiation, all in the last few years. So I'll say, for example. that leukemia and cancers are, therefore, significantly more frequent in the next 20 years. I'm going to say that according to the American Society of Radiology, or the American Society of Radiology is one leukemia or cancer on every 550 Multislate Checks in children, so 550 small patients are one leukemia or cancer, and I look at them a lot more than that annually. And the data that may be the scariest, world-level polls, I'm talking about global data, and our matches show that 90% of doctors who refer to these reviews and 80% of doctors who do them have no idea what dose they gave the patient at each checkup. And that's why I think that in the future, in the protection of these forms of radiation, and it's going to spread explosively, medical education is actually the main measure of protection, and so I agree that this is all under the Ministry of Health and not under the State Inspectorate, where there are absolutely no experts who might even suspect, let alone solve this problem. I think these are strong arguments for this kind of inspection control in which the department in this part of ionizing radiation inspection is being conducted by the Ministry of Health and in the nuclear section oversees the institution itself. Namely, here inspectors are appointed directors of the office, and these inspectors are overseeing the very institution that adopts the sublegal acts, which implements everything in them and controls itself. That part I don't think is good, but if it's consistent with European guidelines, then we have to take from Europe and what we don't think is good. I also believe that we will submit this, or we have submitted, as the Committee of Amendments, that it should be specified for these inspectors that has previously been required, not only of its own expertise, but we also believe that we should see in fact the extent to which inspection supervision of this entire state office should be under some other state body because it is too serious issues and too serious a problem. In addition to these and other remarks that we have pointed out on the board, we believe that this law represents a significant step, is a rationalisation, is coherence in most European norms and still allows for inspection at a high level of expertise, which still guarantees a final quality, which is as little unwanted as possible from the source of ionising radiation. And just my review of the proposal for inspection to be carried out at the State Inspectorate. The State Inspectorate and this National Institute of Radiological and Nuclear Security are absolutely equal in legal status and I don't think they could be superior to each other, and so that the solution proposed here may be one bad compromise but it's a compromise. And lastly, on behalf of the club, we believe that with these few amendments that we have submitted on behalf of the board and there will probably be some more that we will consider here, in any case, the law deserves to be accepted in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46123	Thank you very much. This is where we stop now. Tomorrow, at 9:00 and 30 minutes, we'll continue our individual debate. The first is the honourable representative Stjepan Kundić tomorrow. Reports for individual hearings may still be filed until 10 a.m. tomorrow. Another important announcement for all MPs and deputies who are now in the hall and for those who are not. The vote on the debated points is scheduled tomorrow at 12 o'clock, so please be as many in the hall as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46124	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors! We continue our work and continue to discuss the agenda item Final proposal of the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act. There's an individual debate coming up. The first in the debate is Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46125	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There's another very important law in front of us under P.Z. 494 in order to comply with the laws of the European Union. The draft law sets out 6 directives to bring domestic legislation into line from the field of protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security. Namely, what's this about? It's about Chapter 15. – Energy for nuclear safety and protection against ionising radiation during which the criteria that should be met by us are days. The proposed legislation in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection is fully aligned with the acquis of the European Union. In accordance with this proposed law, a single regulatory body shall be established and its independence shall be ensured, and administrative and professional capacitation shall be ensured in accordance with the criteria set out in the already mentioned negotiating chapter 15. – Energy, while laying the basis for systematic implementation, monitoring and revision of the radioactive waste management strategy, spent nuclear fuel, and all of this in line with the criteria set out in the negotiating chapter 15. - Energy. It is important that Article 6 which speaks of the establishment of the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security as a body of the State Administration responsible for protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety. It should be noted that the establishment of a National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security, which is taken over by state officials, equipment, means of work, financial resources, and the rights and obligations of the State Department for radiation protection and the State Department for Nuclear Safety will not require additional funding from the State budget. What exactly does the National Nuclear Security Institute do? First, it shall issue permits to carry out nuclear activities in relation to nuclear material or special equipment. Furthermore, it conducts independent safety analyses. It then issues solutions, i.e. approvals for accommodation, design, construction, and decommissioning of the facility where nuclear activity will be carried out. It also implements commitments made by the Republic of Croatia under international conventions and bilateral agreements, which relate to nuclear security and the application of safeguard measures for the purpose of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and other tasks related to security and security measures in the use of nuclear materials and special equipment, i.e. in the pursuit of nuclear activities. The aim of the legislative proposal is to regulate security measures, protection against ionising radiation and physical security in carrying out nuclear activities and activities with sources of ionising radiation, all of which again in order to enable the application of the protection of individuals, society and the environment in... the future of the adverse effects of ionising radiation and the safe operation of activities with sources of ionising radiation, nuclear activity, the management of radioactive waste and physical security of sources of ionising radiation and nuclear objects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed law does not apply to the natural level of ionising radiation originating in the universe, the crust of the earth or humans if it is not changed by human activity. The provisions of this law relating to the composition of radioactive substances shall not apply to food and their composition determined by specific regulations. Also, the provisions of this law do not apply to imports and exports of medicinal products. I will also mention Article 4 which speaks of the establishment of a Council for Radiological and Nuclear Security as an advisory body of the Croatian Parliament. What exactly is the task of this council? First, it gives its opinion on draft laws regulating radiological and nuclear security, proposals for sublegal acts relating to the provisions of this law, and other sublegal acts necessary for its implementation. Furthermore, it provides proposals and opinions to the Croatian Parliament on the state of nuclear and radiological security in the Republic of Croatia, the strategy for the development of nuclear security, the organisation of nuclear and radiological security in the Republic of Croatia, international cooperation in the field of nuclear and radiological security, and in particular on the accession and implementation of international contracts in this area, and other aspects of nuclear and radiological security in the Republic of Croatia. The Council has seven members, one of whom is president. The President and other members of the Council shall appoint and relieve the responsibilities of the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Council members shall be selected from the ranks of experts in the field of protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security over a period of 4 years. And in the end, I will say that on our Committee on Health we have elaborated this law and we have made an effort to improve its really effective application. Of course I'll support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46126	Thank you. Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46127	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the presentation on the Radiological and Nuclear Security Bill, I would like to say that I will be restrained when this law is passed, although this bill makes several good solutions, and here I will first mention Article 39 which prohibits the intentional addition of radioactive substances in the production of food and feed for animals, which means that I assume a ban on the radiation of food for humans and animals. This law, however, does not address extremely important issues that can prove crucial to the Republic of Croatia, and in this sense I hope that this will be resolved, if not by this law, by some other documents. Exactly what I mean. Let's imagine we're in 2014. Climate change has escalated in a much more dramatic way than the scenarios envisaged. Because of the anthropogenic interventions in the environment, and not only through the enormous emissions of greenhouse gases, but also because of a whole series of experimental underground nuclear explosions around the world, we have a day-to-day event of enormous heat and atmospheric escalation, so on the one hand we have catastrophic droughts, and on the other hand we have cataclysmic floods, earthquakes, soil ulcers and so forth. Croatia unfortunately did not bypass the black scenario, and in 2014 a devastating earthquake struck the wider area of Zagreb, i.e. the area of Krško. Unfortunately, as a result of the earthquake, there was a hemorrhaging of Krško's nuclear power plant, so-called "Krško". A sudden event or incident occurred and there was a leak of radiation, or nuclear disaster. This proposal for a law in Article 6 relating to the jurisdiction of the new United State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security determines, among other things, that the Institute, I quote, monitors the state of security of nuclear power plants in the region and conducts risk assessments of possible nuclear accidents in them, and in particular for Krško's nuclear power plant in Slovenia and the PACS nuclear power plant in Hungary, and quotes further instructions for implementation and international recommendations and standards in the field of protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security, and sets out standards and methods to monitor the state of protection against ionising radiation, the end of the quotation. I am afraid that these provisions of the law to Croatian citizens and citizens after a mildly unsettled reaction to the non-recovery of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue during the recent floods in the Kosinj Valley and the Neretva Valley cannot in any way infuse security. Although unfortunately, the state of the protection and rescue system in the Republic of Croatia is not the subject of this law, I believe we will all agree that a quality, efficient and spotive reaction by the competent services and institutions to the real or potential nuclear danger or hawariy is the vital interest of the state. What we need is a elaborate implementation plan or a protocol of conduct in the case of such blackest scenarios, so that the loss of humans, animals, is as little as possible. In view of the fact that the bill does not specify exactly what needs to be done by the Institute, whether it is necessary to establish precise protocols for such scenarios or whether the Office is merely an advisory body to the State Protection and Rescue Authority to make those protocols. We have a lot to worry about, because we know very well or at least know about it, we who have had the opportunity to work in the state administration how good cooperation is between state institutions, and how much level of interdisciplinary approach there is in the design and implementation of some measures. In other words, and as things now stand, in case tomorrow happens to us the scenario I described earlier, we would be blacked out, or there would be a great loss of people and animals. The reaction of the authorities during the recent floods is a clear witness. The next thing I'm worried about is putting all my eggs in one basket, to express myself. This applies to Article 80, which, in point 2 of the inspection control case, applies to the implementation of measures to protect against ionising radiation in relation to medical... the competent authority of the sanitary inspection, the inspection in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health, which is, in a certain part, the owner of medical institutions that the same sanitary inspection oversees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This creates a great potential danger to conflicts of interest. This is not only the case here, but it is also the case for many other inspections operating within different ministries, and in this sense it would not be bad to consider the separation of all, i.e. the separation of all inspections in a separate institution, much more important than today's case. Finally, I will refer to the article 39, which I commended at the very beginning of the exposure because it prohibits the radiation of food for humans and animals. It is an excellent provision, however, I fear the fate of this provision when we bear in mind that it is in line with the rules of the Alimentarius Code, which, as far as I know, came into force at the beginning of this year. Why am I worried about the Alimentarius code? I am concerned because I worked at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and was involved in the problem of GMO regulation, and I know that since the ban on the release of GMOs into the environment since the start of the decade under the pressure of the world trade organisation, Croatia has retarded, just as most European countries have retarded towards quite great lenientness towards GMOs. I remind you, the Alimentarius code is an industrial organization that today, just like VTO, represents the interests of multinational companies. The Alimentarius Code was established 40 years ago, by the World Health Organization, and by the Food and Agriculture Organisation, under the auspices of the UN, with the aim of protecting consumers and controlling food safety. Under the auspices of the Code, there are more than 20 state commissions working to define standards and guidelines at the international level of food production and safety control. Today, the code of allimentarius is extensively engaged in the so-called ". Addressing problems related to genetically modified food and biotechnology, i.e. by promoting GMOs and biotechnology in food production, since, unfortunately, the organisation has fallen under the great influence of pharmaceutical and agricultural corporations and genetically modified food producers over time. Instead of protecting the interests of consumers, today the code of alimony represents the interests of huge corporations such as Mont... The problem with the Alimentarius Code is its close link with the World Trade Organisation, so today all the countries that are members of the VTO, which is Croatia, must accept the Alimentarius Code if they do not want to pay enormous prices like the European Union when they did not want to import cow meat from America by code because of its oversatisfaction with growth hormones mentioned by multinationals like Mont... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Alimentarius Code is a set of rules for the regulation of agriculture and full control of food from seeds to final products, and its application among other bad things brings that under the alibi of sanitary reasons vegetables and seeds will be exposed to radiation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At present, it is only done in seeds and vegetables that must travel long to remain as fresh as possible. Under the code, I say many will ban world experts and experts from doing so, it will be mandatory for everyone, almost all foods. I hope that Article 39 of this proposal of the law represents a real commitment from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, like the Czech Republic, oppose the code of alimony, i.e. to protect the Croatian population and animals against all the health of harmful measures. I hope we remain firm and consistent in that attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46128	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46129	Comrade Holly, in your discussion you also touched the security of nuclear power plants, especially this concerns the Krško nuclear power plant and the PAX nuclear power plant that are in our immediate environment. Cross-border cooperation in the case of nuclear accidents is defined by international conventions and protocols, which are the holder of the International Atomic Energy Agency, and in Croatia it is in the jurisdiction of the National Nuclear Security Institute, that is, will be in the jurisdiction of this institution which we are now establishing, and this is in line with international experiences and recommendations. However, the crucial thing about the safety of the Krško nuclear power plant is that the Republic of Croatia, since it already owns 50% of that nuclear power plant and retains its own ownership stake, because only in such a way can directly affect the safety policy of the Krško nuclear power plant, rather than be exposed to a complicated system of international protocols in the event of any extraordinary situation. However, this State Nuclear Safety Service as well as the State Department of radiation protection have certain protocols and have plans to act in the event of a nuclear accident or an extraordinary event. But I agree with you that there is a need to significantly enhance cooperation with civil protection, the Ministry of the Interior and perhaps the military.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46130	Thank you. Mrs. Holly's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46131	Dear colleague Franic, thank you so much for explaining this to me. I wasn't really informed about what you just said. However, as you yourself have mentioned, all of thesecurricular situations such as disasters of a smaller or larger scale as well as known are in the jurisdiction of the State Administration, or the Agency or the Agency for Protection and Rescue, and we have seen recently that there has been a lot of discrepancies during the floods that I mentioned during my debate, and I hope that such discrepancies by the state agencies would not occur and when it means some major disasters such as nuclear disaster in the Krsko nuclear plant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46132	Thank you. It's Mr. Zdenko Franic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46133	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is an extremely important task that regulates very, very complex matter, demanding matter, and it is actually a state-run institution that has extraordinary responsibilities and powers. This is similar to the International Atomic Energy Agency, which may be the most complex, would even dare to say the most powerful organization of the United Nations that deals with non-proliferation of nuclear weapons to the peaceful use of nuclear technology in science, economy and economy, and is similar to that of this institution that forms a significant rationalisation in the sense that the existing 2 institutions that already have a long tradition are uniting into one institution. The fact is that the Republic of Croatia has no major nuclear technologies on its soil, but nearby we have NE "Krško", nor 30 km from ours in essence from Zagreb, therefore, the largest population centre in the Republic of Croatia. And we simply need to have a well-designed, organized and functional institution that will take care of it. It is also a fact that the largest or largest contribution to collective doses in the Republic of Croatia can be expected from the component of medical radiation and are not immune to the most developed, technologically advanced state in the world. And here we are witnessing that yesterday in the prominent "The New York Times" an article came out that 36 patients who were treating cancer in an American hospital were irradiated with so many doses that they even started to lose their hair. So instead of getting help, they were still irradiated. It's about 36 people. And all because the staff wasn't experienced enough and educated. A situation related to the so-called nuclear knowledge or maintaining the current levels of nuclear knowledge both in the world and in Europe, and consequently in Croatia is quite alarming and increasingly young people want to enroll the universities of technical, natural, natural and scientific professions, and are particularly reluctant to devote themselves to these components relating to the nuclearity of radiation protection, radiation science, etc. The seriousness of the situation also testifies to the fact that recently also the Assembly of the Western European Union, so the Interparliamentary Organisation, which deals with European security and defence policy, had a agenda point regarding the preservation of the level of nuclear knowledge in Europe. So something his Excellency, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, is constantly warning. Consequently, this institution should be provided after its formation and additional conditions for more promotion of this extremely important topic should be ensured. Dear Mr. Secretary of State should consider that your ministry, perhaps even physicists, biochemists, biologists recognise the status of health workers, to improve their status in our hospitals because that would also increase the level of knowledge and skills in this multidisciplinary situation in which medicine today actually is. Because health management, treatment today becomes one complex activity without the cooperation of many professions that cannot be achieved. What can be considered is that hospitals have as well as their main nurse have a major physicist who would take care of the measuring equipment and apparatus involved, which is used either in diagnostics or in treatment. Therefore, I have made one amendment to include a scientific component, which is de facto and only a confirmation of the existing situation, because essentially this institution, both of these institutions are already working with colleges, institutes or international Atomic Energy Agency, on many scientific projects today. It should also be noted that the sole objection to this Act can be found in Article 80(2) concerning the jurisdiction of the inspection because a different solution has been negotiated in the field of energy, but then the truth is, it was a matter of negotiating the status of the National Institute for Nuclear Security. I agree that it is a very complex problem and that this Institute needs the help of all ministries, scientific institutions, professional institutions, but perhaps you have gone a little too far in the law because almost everything needs the opinion of the minister, I have searched the Law with this search function and in some 40 of the 100 articles is required by the agreement of the minister. So was it not possible in a certain number of these articles to ask only for the opinion of the minister, it turns out that the minister will have to sit in this office to give an opinion on the acts and other administrative documents that the Bureau is bringing. So, you've really limited his freedom of action, and you're actually expected to have enough expertise at the head of the Institute, an ethical enough person who is able and self-involved by the Ministry to propose and make these decisions, and you as a Government, or we as a Parliament, are always at the disposal of measures to replace him if he does not comply with the law and the ethics of the profession. So consider making at least one of these consents into an amendment because such a level of supervision may not be necessary after all. So it is a good law, and if a better solution is found for Article 80, it certainly needs to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46134	Thank you. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go. Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46135	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here's a few words on the proposal for a law on radiological, nuclear security. What is more than clear from all these discussions is the area of radiological and nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia so far has been regulated by two different laws. The Law on protection against ionising radiation and the Law on the Security of Sources of ionising radiation, National No. 64/2006. A year. The second law was related to the Nuclear Security Act. So two different laws, what's more important, two different institutions, two different institutions. The State Air Protection Office has been tasked with setting standards and methods to monitor the state of protection against ionising radiation, to approve activities with sources of ionising radiation, to approve the use of sources of ionising radiation, to organise and monitor and, if necessary, to conduct studies, presence, species, strength of ionising radiation, to the environment, human and livestock food, medicines, objects, etc. Another law that may have been given less attention in these discussions is related to nuclear security. And what's the goal of this bill is how until now two different laws, as so far as two different institutions, two different institutions integrate into one Law, and one Institute. Rationalisation, optimisation of administrative capacities, is a commitment not only to the administration of the European Union but also to the administration of the state in the Republic of Croatia is one of the priorities and rationalisation of the state administration and it is not at all controversial and it is very important. But any such integration, any such integration, a whole series of different professions, a whole series of different competences, responsibility is challenging and a difficult task and implementation of that law will not be a bit simple or easy, and it will need to be given special attention. This process of integration of these institutions is also imposed through Chapter 15. Energy required to rationalise the area of nuclear security against ionising radiation. A number of different directives related to this area have been defined, such as the Council Directive since 2009, and are related to the establishment of a common framework for nuclear safety, nuclear installations. This is a particularly important responsibility and task that affects a whole series of international contracts that need special attention. Further, monitoring and control of spent nuclear fuel is something that certainly requires special attention and this problem is defined also by the relevant Council of Europe Directive. Furthermore, the Directive on information to the public and protection measures to be taken in the event of extraordinary events is very important because this awareness and responsibility of all institutions of civil society but the media would also point to potential dangers that could occur in the case of different nuclear incidents. Unfortunately, in medical practice, our citizens are exposed to the effects of ionizing radiation and all of this is also a problem that is present in everyday life. What I deserve is special attention, it's a question of integration of different professions of lawyers, politicians, biologists, doctors, physicists, energyists. A whole series of different professions should begin to function after this law within a state institution. The issue is an organisational structure that will be aware of and which will be able to fully understand the competences of all these tasks that this body, with very significant powers in the future, will have to exercise. A whole series of international contracts, care for nuclear materials all requires this, I would say not only the key quality leadership of this organization, but also further supervision of the Croatian Parliament, but also other institutions of the Croatian Government, so that the National Institute for Nuclear Safety and Radiological Security can indeed function in quality. What imposes the work of this institution especially on the international agenda deserves special attention. The Convention on Nuclear Safety, preventing the proliferation of material, but not just material. What is also important is knowledge and technology part of the contract of international obligations that require the control of work and institutions and institutes, but also the movement of people who in their heads, their knowledge, those technologies, those knowledge that can endanger our common security. Therefore, the task is to clearly integrate the law, integrate state institutions, integrate different professions into a common legal framework, into one institution and the work of that institution certainly requires special attention and care. The so far Nuclear Security Council has submitted an annual report to the Croatian Parliament. It would certainly be interesting for the future Croatian Parliament to have control over all these processes, in particular the integration of these state institutions, and therefore perhaps ultimately I would suggest that within one year the quality of the process of implementation of this law and the quality of the work of the integrated state institution in the form of an appropriate report be submitted to the Croatian Assembly in order to ensure that we have achieved the objectives set, full functionality, full rationality, the implementation of all tasks, the obligations that follow from the Council of Europe Directive with as little human resources as possible. I'm certainly stressing again in the end, a good feeling for the diversity and responsibility of the task, is a challenge for those who will lead the new state office. Different professions, I repeat again, lawyers, politicians, international contracts, energyists, electricians, good balancing and managing of a state-run institution that has great and significant responsibility, is an important task that deserves our continued attention, care, supervision and responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46136	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that at 10 o'clock, it's past 10 minutes' notice. In addition to having two short discussions on behalf of the clubs, I would like to inform you that at 12 o'clock we will have a vote, first on the completion of the agenda at this session and second vote on the completed and completed agenda points. I'm asking the clubs to get organized so we can go to the polls at 12 o'clock. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr Zdenko Franic will conclude. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46137	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. So we can conclude that there is an extremely important law in front of us that regulates a very, very complex problem. Unfortunately, this law comes only today to debate it although the SDP has proposed this rationalisation years ago, that the existing two institutions join together in one for better efficiency and efficiency and cooperation and better response to all the challenges that lie ahead of both this institution and Croatian society compared to the complex matter of the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. But let's be open in the area of suppressing illicit trafficking in nuclear material. The chapter of energy, so Chapter 15, was negotiated before this law came to us in the debate and certain solutions were agreed in line with the European acquis and European guidelines. And these solutions refer to the inspection. I'm not saying that Europe is always right. There may be better solutions, but it is such a solution related to the inspection and this nuclear component is foreseen in the European guidelines. However, as these two institutions were joined, then inspection control of the work related to radiation protection is, therefore, to that part of the institution that enters the new Radiological and Nuclear Security Office through the inherited State Air Protection Office. The inspection supervision is intended for something different and is not in line with the negotiated chapter. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State and the Government will find some compromise solution so that we do not get into a situation whether we are objecting to the International Atomic Energy Agency as regards the position and independence of this institution and there have been such situations. Also, it would not be good to question the closed chapter and to question the closed chapter of energy again because of the inspection of this future institution. So, depending on the solution the amendment will propose to the government on the SDP inspection situation, it will assess whether it will be for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46138	Thank you. And five minutes on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46139	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, at the end of the debate is a very serious law that needs first of all to protect human health. And that's why I'm going to point out here from yesterday's debate something that should really be remembered, which is that the amount of radiation that the population receives from medical sources of radiation, the diagnostic sources of radiation have become alarming throughout the world, and unfortunately in Croatia as well. And that's why we supported the proposal to agree on all the regulations that will be passed by the new United State Department of Health. We believe that in the Ministry of Health there are respectable experts and cooperation with the profession, which will bring this exposure to the medical sources to the minimum possible extent in order to benefit this exposure rather than bad results. And what are the bad results of exposure to medical radiation? I'm talking about a new multi-layer CT device, primarily leukemia and cancer. So the most serious consequences that can be and the data found in world statistics, and unfortunately, our research is also very alarming. 70% of the source of radiation is already coming from this device, 100 million views are a year. We have about 15% of the population, in some countries and 20% of the population annually exposed to this device, to this diagnostic method that gives a dose like 400 lung shots, and for the lung scan, we are already raising the alarm and caution due to exposure to radiation. The doses are 25 to 80... method. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does that mean for kids? This means one leukemia to 550 examined small patients. It's an alarming information, the whole world has faced it, it's fighting it, and we've built in this law strict surveillance over all the rules in such a way that they have the consent of the Minister of Health. The most frightening fact is that 90% of doctors do not know what dose they give during multi-layer CT scans. Therefore, the Ministry of Health must certainly play a significant role in protecting against excessive radiation and education of qualified staff and we know that supervision of specializations and in this branch of medicine is done by the Ministry of Health and that is why I think this is a good solution as complicated as it seems. The other thing why it takes consent to the regulations by the Ministry of Health is that this law transfers a lot of important provisions from law to regulations. In the old law, there were certain limits to acceptable doses, maximum permitted exposure doses. They're now being transferred to the rule book. Therefore, the regulation determines very serious matter and therefore it is good to be with the consent of the Ministry of Health. I'll just say one piece of information that the maximum permissible dose of exposure is now transferred to the rulebook and was previously in law. And finally, something about inspection surveillance because we've heard a lot of objections here, so we've done our best to make an amendment tonight, and I believe it will be acceptable to the SDP Representatives' Club. That amendment deletes Article 80(1) and (2), hence there is no inspection supervision by the Ministry of Health, there have been objections but inspection controls will behave according to this amendment by a new state body, so the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security and the Ministry of Health will be a second-degree body, a second-degree complaint resolution body. We believe that in this way we have created a structure that allows for a good quality of control of radiation protection against all nuclear security and also that we have respected the European Union guidelines and that amendment will be submitted within the legal time limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46140	Thank you. And finally State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Care Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46141	Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of the debate, allow me just a few words to thank you for this whole debate and once again to repeat just a few clear things. Thus far, the Republic of Croatia has had relatively harmonised regulations in the field of radiological and nuclear security under the two laws and this law is the result of the unification of one and the other laws and sets such conditions that the new National Institute of Radiological and Nuclear Security will surely be able to meet all the challenges. What should be said and perhaps not to have certain misunderstandings on the part of health care is clear that monitoring is required in a particular direction that we heard about during this debate because of the exceptional role of radiation and devices with ionising radiation in the health system and on health or in the diagnostics and therapy of patients. But it should be said that the National Bureau of Radiological and Nuclear Security has its independence. It is ensured by the rules that it can act independently at any time in accordance with international conventions and international directives on the one hand, so that it is in its jurisdiction and in all exceptional circumstances and incidents. And there's no concern of mentioning it, I have to say these are perhaps lay estimates of whether in certain situations the State Department of Protection and Rescue did what it had to do, and she had procedures, procedures that led to certain actions and we think that professional and independent analysis alone could give without any politicalisation an answer whether in the system there was a flood, d but she reacted as it was possible. On the other hand, the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security brings forward a plan and a programme of measures, or proposes to the Government, and all other procedures necessary for us to have as much, as possible, quality protection from any extraordinary event in radiological and nuclear areas as possible. We believe that the Institute will work just as well, if not better than they've done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46142	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote most likely today. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are going to vote on the debated agenda points. First, the Final Proposal for a Law on Radiological and Nuclear Safety, Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 494, the draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Can we also raise hands on who's agreed to hold a debate on the government's amendments? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Restraint? It's unanimous with 104 votes. Accepted proposal. This applies to Amendment 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I'd like the Secretary of State, Mr. Antu Golem, to make a statement on the amendments. Here you go. The first amendment of the Government to explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46144	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Following further consultations with the European Commission on the harmonisation of this law with the European Union directives on the proposed amendment to the Government, two things are settled. First, in the adoption of rules by the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Safety, in accordance with Council Directive 2009 ... The ministry responsible for the economy is unable to give consent to these regulations or to have an impact on those regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This gives rise to independence from the work of the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security in relation to the state body in the economy. So that the proposed amendments in the entire text are deleted instead of the provision under which consent for regulations must be given from the position of the ministry responsible for the economy. In the second part, the proposal is that given the seriousness of the problem of the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel in accordance with European legislation, the level of responsibility is raised by one degree, hence from the level of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security at the level of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the third part of these amendments concern the possibility of a second-degree solution when the Ministry of Health and Social Care has made a certain solution in the first instance, a certain decision in a way that can be discussed in the second instance before the start of the administrative dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46145	I'm opening a debate on the first amendment to the government. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Let's please get involved and vote on the first amendment of the government. The result? The first amendment of the government was adopted unanimously by 103 votes. We're moving on to the second amendment of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46146	Mr. President, the second amendment is nomotechnical compliance in line with the first amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46147	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement about this second one, which is actually just a technical amendment. The result? This amendment was accepted by a majority vote with 96 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. About the Third Amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46148	The third amendment is to raise the level of responsibility from the State Administration to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46149	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Please, let's get involved and plead on the third amendment to the government. The result? This amendment by the government was adopted unanimously by 99 votes. Please explain the debate on the fourth amendment to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46150	The fourth amendment also refers nomotechnically so that for all regulations the Ministry of Health gives consent and excludes the Ministry of Economy's competence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46151	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the fourth amendment to the government. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal of the fourth amendment of the Government. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The fourth amendment by the government was adopted unanimously with 99 votes. I'm asking the fifth amendment of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46152	The fifth amendment is also an amendment setting up the possibility of a second-degree settlement of the dispute before the administrative procedure is launched.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46153	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. ... But you do. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Zdenko Franic on behalf of the club... I apologize, I didn't see, I wasn't looking that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46154	Mr. President. I think the procedure should be to vote first on the HDZ amendment because this amendment without the HDZ amendment makes no sense. And otherwise, if we pass the HDZ amendment supported by the SDP, then we should vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46155	... on these proposed amendments, then we will return to the 5th amendment of the government. [[Specially enabled.]] Let's move on to a statement on the amendments that have been tabled here, and we'll go in order. 1 Mr Zdenko Franić's representative on Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46156	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46157	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2. The Committee on Health and Social Care.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46158	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46159	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3 Mr Zdenko Franić's representative on Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46160	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46161	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 4, MPs Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46162	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the non-technical statement in the existing paragraph and the first and second paragraphs of Article 26 clearly state the provisions which were intended to be achieved in this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46163	Mrs. Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46164	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, I believe you have made a major failure in Article 26, namely you have not protected both pregnant women and breast-feeding women from all kinds of radiation. Neither pregnant nor breast-feeding should work with open sources of radiation. You didn't write it clearly, you didn't write it unequivocally. I accept that item 1 has been amended by the amendment of counterpart Franic, however, paragraph 2 remains unchanged and my amendment goes in that sense and I demand a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46165	Thank you. The amendment on paragraph 1 has been accepted, 2 is not accepted, so we declare the 2nd paragraph of the amendment by Mrs Romane Jerkovic, who is not accepted by the government. Who's up for that amendment? Please raise your hands. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5. Amendment of the Committee on Health and Social Care.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46166	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46167	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The Committee on Space, Editing and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46168	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46169	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 7, HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46170	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46171	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 8, Zdenko Franić's representative in Article 80.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46172	It is not accepted because it has been resolved in the previously accepted amendment. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46173	Mr. Zdenko Franic withdraws his amendment. 9th Amendment of the Committee on Health and Social Care.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46174	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-28-0.u46175	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Now we return after voting on these amendments, we return to the 5th amendment of the government. I'm opening a debate. It was open, Mr. Zdenko Franic answered. There's no more interest in the debate. We are now pleading on that amendment. Let's please get involved and vote on the 5th amendment of the government. Score. This amendment was accepted by most votes, 100 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against. Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act. Let's please get involved and vote on the law as a whole. Score. The law was adopted unanimously by 104 votes, along with amendments adopted. We move to - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the State of Israel on cooperation in the fight against crime, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 495 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this law be discussed in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic, therefore state secretary at the interior ministry. Here you go.
