ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62392	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs and counsellors. You have an annual report on the work of state lawyers in the Republic of Croatia for 2009 and contained and methodologically done in a similar way to the one from earlier years. First of all, in order to give an assessment of the state and criminality of the prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences, and to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia throughout the years behind us. Of course, when making the report, we also respected your comments from earlier years. Introductoryly, perhaps for the sake of the public, I would say just a few words about the position and role of the State's Attorney's Office in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, although you know it better than I do, but it is important for the public to know what the State's Attorney's Office is and what they do. Often we are identified with the body of general surveillance, and we are not, prosecutors from earlier times there until '70. years could have been, they were, but we're not. We are determined by the Constitution and by law as an independent and independent judicial body, which is authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the law. That definition of the State's Attorney's Office depends on our part-time work and the state's attorney's own organization. So, we have as many powers as the laws give us, and our effectiveness depends primarily on the quality and work of state lawyers and deputies and other employees in the system of state attorneys, but also on other bodies that are obliged to file criminal charges, or to provide data for our actions, which is why it is necessary to appreciate the work of other bodies in particular when assessing the effectiveness of our work in certain areas, both for the protection of property and for the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences, with the work of a state attorney, in particular when it comes to criminal proceedings. I point out again, without pretentiously defending the work of the State's Attorney's Office, as we are, above all, a body of prosecution and that our fundamental right is to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal acts. And other bodies, primarily the police, individual administrations of the Ministry of Finance, are authorised and obliged to disclose the perpetrators of criminal offences and submit applications to the State's Attorney's Office so that the performance of the work of the State's Attorney's Office depends on the work and on those bodies. Looking at the very statistics on the movement and structure of crime ahead of you in your annual report, we at the State Attorney's Office could be satisfied with the results in 2009 both with the state of crime and with the fight against him and with the work of the competent authorities. However, it is our general assessment, but the situation in certain areas of crime shows that reasons for contentment never enough or never enough. Especially in the area of corruption and abuse in which at the end of the first half of 2009, thanks above all to the new Criminal Procedure Act, we have begun intensive work to detect and process possible abuses in state-owned companies. This specifically marked the work of the State's Attorney's Office in the second half of 2009 as well as in 2010. Something about organization of the State's Attorney's Office. The affairs of the State Attorney's Office in 2009 were carried out by 53 Municipal State Attorney's Offices, 20 County State's Attorney's Offices, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime and finally the DORH. These included 577 officials, so state attorneys or deputies and other employees working in different services supporting the work of state attorneys, i.e. deputies. Of these, 300 state lawyers worked on criminal cases, and 200 of them remain civil lawyers. This is why the name of our report also bears the 2009 report on the work of the state's attorneys' offices. As a result, all those officials and employees have contributed by their work and exposure to the fact that the State's Attorney General's Office is particularly up-to-date in the reporting period, but also in part successful in the process, with particular emphasis on the work of the Deputy Director of USKOK. Something about an annual report alone. As the report has been said, ours is made up of the foundation of an article. 40. The Law on the State Attorney's Office does not contain data on certain matters, which is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia itself, but also with recommendations from the European Commission to meet the conditions for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The report shows, through statistical indicators and the presentation of certain thematic elements, the state and movement of crime and the taking of actions, etc., all so that you can give an assessment of the state of crime and its danger to society as a whole, an assessment of the quality of protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, if you assess the necessary and order other measures under the authority of the Croatian Parliament. However, this does not mean that in the State's Attorney's Office, I don't particularly think that the Croatian Parliament has the right to discuss all areas of our work and appearances. During the year, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia provided special reports to the relevant committees of the Croatian Parliament and such reports containing both the state and the individual cases and decisions taken, in particular from the civil-government section of our work. However, the actual assessment of the effectiveness of the work of the State Attorney's Office in specific individual criminal or civil cases shall only and exclusively give the courts their judicial decisions. Our report, with a view to showing the structure of the case and the work of the State Attorney's Office, is being warned about the state and functioning of the legal system, the lack of legislation and the internal business of the State's attorney's office, and basic data on the staff and material position of the State's attorney's office are being provided. Working on criminal cases, in 2009, there was a slight increase in the number of criminal charges filed by 2%. From all these 10 years that have been shown in our report, there have been minor deviations whether crimes, the number of crimes on the rise or down, it has been shown that the trend or condition has been better said over the past years is essentially unchanged in relation to the total mass and number of crimes and even their structure. As for the work on these criminal cases, we kept the update achieved, with the State's attorney's office there remained a relatively small number of cases in work, only 0.15%, and around 8 500 total applications were pending or were found in the stage of criminal research. As far as structures are concerned, it's the same as before. The most numerous crimes are against property, then freedom of human and citizen rights, abuse of intoxicating drugs, etc. As for the increase or fall of the number of criminal cases in our report, we have presented an interesting information that can tell you what certain changes to the laws that make changes in the number and structure of criminal cases mean. For example, the provision of Article 308 was amended last year. KZ where it is prescribed to be fined for 3 months to 3 years by the person operating the motor vehicle, although he is subject to a security measure or a protective measure prohibiting the driving of a motor vehicle. This illegal operation has been transferred from the area of offence to the area of criminal offences. She has resulted in 3,000 and some criminal charges burdening the entire system's work, which is the worst they bring much lighter criminal sanctions than they have been in a misdemeanour procedure. So, that amendment of the law is according to our assessment, of course I claim that I was absolutely counterproductive. There are many such situations, approximately like that. The criminality of minors back 5 years is in decline, and so is the number of minors' crimes for the past 2 years. Compared to all the decisions we made last year, 52 thousand 254 decisions were made, 47.9% of all cases were charged, but a large number of 41.3% of applications were also rejected. When we talk about rejections, then I don't think we should talk about whether the rejections were the result of the successful or unsuccessful work of the State's Attorney's Office because, according to the Law on the State's Attorney, every criminal application was made by citizens, police administrations, inspectorates, tax administrations, etc., it has to seduce the register of criminal charges and make a decision on them. That's why we're partly justifying a large number of rejections of criminal charges. On the other hand, in relation to the part of the incrimination, in the first part of the abuse of light intoxicating drugs, the state's attorneys in the past year, as seen in the Annual Report, have often applied the institutes which have provided them with the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, i.e. the Law on Criminal Procedure, as well as the Penal Code, and have rejected those criminal charges for such circumstances which do not deserve prosecution in criminal proceedings but only in criminal proceedings. In the total structure of criminal sanctions, prison participates with 18.7% and parole sentences are 70% and fines about 10%. This structure moves at the level of standards from earlier years, with the number of prison sentences increasing each year. We are here somewhere compared to parity in the frameworks of the European Union, even more stringent than in the countries of the European Union. As regards the infringement proceedings, I must mention one decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the Maresti case against the Republic of Croatia, in which the European Court of Human Rights has made one decision that will have far-reaching consequences and has far-reaching consequences for statistical indicators in the work of the State's Attorney's Office, but I think that decision is good and will allow the judicial authorities in the Republic of Croatia not to conduct parallel proceedings in the offence and in criminal proceedings which I find inadmissible. But in advance, I say that the statistical indicators of the State's Attorney's office next year will be significantly different precisely because of Maresti's verdict. But that doesn't need to worry us, but it just has to encourage us to do the same thing to amend the criminal law that is currently under way, not to double capacity and not to prescribe the same provision from one law and another. So, both in the Law of Infractions and in the Penal Code. In this way, however, we will achieve the equality of citizens, but on the other hand, we will have a more effective approach to persecution either in offences or in criminal acts. Working on organised crime cases is particularly interesting and it has been processed especially in our Report. Last year, 1118 criminal charges. Of that, 215 in the field of organised crime, and 842 criminal charges relate to corruption crimes in a broader sense. The number of applications is approximately at last year's level. But the number of convictions is higher than in earlier years. Otherwise, in the area of corruption crimes, the State's Attorney's Office last year focused its attention precisely on high-level corruption. Therefore, the most complex items and this involved all the capacities of the USKOK or the State's Attorney's Office almost as a whole. In fact, in working on corruption cases, the State's Attorney's Office is exposed to an extremely strict public court which is fine. It is responsible for detecting these crimes and for the success of the procedure, and I reiterate that Article 38 of the State's Attorney's Office is a criminal prosecution of the perpetrator, not a criminal offence. Therefore, our primary task is that, after learning about the criminal offence committed and after having received from the authority of detection, the criminal notification of a decision on whether there are legal grounds and evidence for the initiation of the criminal proceedings. Of course, the burden of evidence is exclusively on the State's Attorney's Office, and it is not enough to just make it likely that someone was involved in corruption crimes, but should prove it fat. Something about working on the USKOK items yet. Compared to the 1262 applications we had in relation to USKOK cases, the State's Attorney's office even rejected 664 criminal charges. It's one information that seems worrying in the first wave, but it's not worrying because we specifically analyzed it and we're especially monitoring these discards that happened in the jumpers. First of all, I think the largest number of judges, state lawyers, administrative references, etc. a declaration of any decision which one party is not satisfied with. And that's why there's a large number of these criminal cases. But the same important reason is why there are so many rejections. These rejections are legal in most cases, they are finally transparent with their arguments and delivered to the parties and to the damages so that everyone can, by controlling the decisions of the State's Attorney's office, take on persecution and achieve protection in court, and if he realizes that he has made a mistake, can be returned to criminal proceedings at any time and correct a mistake, although such mistakes are extremely few. After the investigation was completed, we filed 408 charges, i.e. we accused 408 persons. 90% of all convictions, and there were 491 for corruption in the broad sense, are condemning, so 90%. Of which 63% were sentenced to prison, which is a much higher percentage than in the usual standard regular state lawyers, where 18 commas are somewhat as I said earlier. Penalty policy for office criminal offences is more important than the penalty policy for regular state attorneys, and it is clear that it is the most severe criminal offences under the Penal Code. However, despite the judgments made for certain corruption crimes, it is too early to make labour assessments, our work in this area. Because only if our work contributes to a real reduction in corruption, or if at least partially restores citizens' trust in the work of the state's attorney, or all of us who are involved in the detection and processing of these crimes, and contributes to the fact that the perception of corruption is less, then our assessment will only be able to be positive. The area of civil and administrative law is particularly represented in our Report. We said there that 9.3% of the cases increased by a year earlier, which is normal given the increased engagement on the state property book. Interesting is one information that causes your attention every year, which is the value of civil disputes. It is on the rise which is not good, which last year amounts to 15.8 billion kuna with 12.4 billion kuna, 12 billion against Croatia as a defendant, the Republic of Croatia as a defendant, and 3 and a half billion kuna as a prosecutor. Most of the disputes where we're prosecutors are being won, but also most of the disputes where we're being sued are losing what's by nature logic. Here statistics are detailed, but with this data we can also be satisfied, although I must admit that, in relation to these lost disputes, most of them are labour disputes resulting from non-compliance with collective agreements and obligations that employers have towards, I am talking about the state, which they have towards workers or employees. Compared to the book, we pointed out in particular that, compared to 99.3% of the total number of particles, we put requirements for the registration of state land in land books, or before the competent municipal courts. We pointed out in particular the problem of agricultural land, for which there is no documentation in the way it was transferred to social property, because natural persons are listed in land books owners etc., problems about former... etc., etc., but it's all in detail in your report, so I wouldn't want to waste your precious time here. [[You don't understand.]] Something about the material financial situation and the need to apply the new Criminal Procedure Act. There are different estimates in the public, which is why some of the more significant cases started in the second half of 2009. In the absence of any comments on why this is the case, I can responsibly state that the entry into force of the new Code of Criminal Procedure in the jumping competence of the State Attorney's Office as a whole is of particular importance, and that this is the answer to the question why, as regards the State's Attorney's Office. The new Code of Criminal Procedure shall apply in the jurisdiction of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption from 1 July 2009 and the first experience in the application of the new law shows that a state lawyer may, by applying new procedural provisions in a much shorter time than it has been so far, collect evidence to decide whether to press charges, or from the uprising of prosecution. The new law makes it possible to collect evidence more quickly and efficiently, thus guaranteeing greater success in the process but only in due time to meet all the conditions for its application. In the European Commission report you read today or yesterday, it also says that progress has been made in the application of the new Criminal Procedure Act, that the investigation has been accelerated, and that better co-operation has been made between the State's Attorney's Office and the police as we speak. The law should be applied as a whole to all regular lawyers, i.e. in a regular procedure only since 1 September 2011, but it will require significant material assumptions, which we write about in our report. Likewise, when we talk about the effectiveness of the judiciary, I must stress that we are advocates of the continued reform of the judiciary, and even faster than it was agreed during the negotiations in chapter 23, the new Penal Code, which is under way, and in which we hope that as so far, there will be no extravagant criminal offences that are materially burdened with criminal trial, but will be transferred to the area of violations, a fundamental change in the actual jurisdiction of criminal trial that will allow more courts to deal with only serious criminal acts, and the final rationalisation of courts and state attorneys will allow for faster and more quality handling in criminal cases. When I talk about rationalisation and serious criminal cases, I shall, in particular, highlight such a criminal offence of the abuse of intoxicating drugs referred to in paragraph 2, which accounts for 60% of all cases of county jurisdiction, including the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, or the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, and this is not a matter of criminal acts which, according to their complexity, should be in the area of work of county jurisdiction. We believe that these crimes should be transferred to the municipal jurisdiction, thus discharging county courts, speeding up procedures and thus creating conditions for the resolution of serious crimes of war crimes, corruption, organised and economic crime. I stress 60% of the county's jurisdiction deals with drug abuses, but not those referred to in paragraph 3 where groups are involved,... organisations, etc., rather than ordinary drug dealers selling drugs to each other, etc. [[You don't understand.]] With this in mind, we also highlighted the issue of informing the State's Attorney's Office for two reasons. First promotion of work, second strengthening internal control and supervision of the work of state attorneys in a single management system. Otherwise in the past year, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia's attorneys totaled 269 million kuna, of which the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia 19, USKOK 18 million, county state attorneys 77, and municipal lawyers 154 million kuna. The USKOK itself last year took away the property benefit of 24 and a half million, so much more than it cost the state for now, even though it didn't measure the success of his work, let me tell you right away. As for the reconnaissance of criminal acts, and the limitations of fundamental rights and freedoms, we particularly emphasized them in our report, which is good. Yesterday, in our media, I read the information that is disturbing and irresponsible, I must admit that it is irresponsiblely brought to the public, that more than 80,000 citizens are listening in one way or another. That's just not true. In the last year, we had 873 people who listened literally, of which most drug dealers or those who deal with cross-border transfers, so human trafficking. This kind of information, I'm talking about legal listening, I don't know about illegal, because to know about illegal then you would bring it, I'm talking about it, but I don't think there can be that number or illegal listening, especially I'm saying that illegal listening within the system isn't. If there's someone private, it's his business, he needs to be discovered and persecuted. State aid and co-operation are stressed by the relations of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia with countries in the region, but also with countries already in Europe, or with the European Union. In particular, I must stress that we now have a state's attorney in... Therefore, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia have a representative in... [[You don't understand.]] as a state lawyer, not only for a relationship, but for a colleague named Cula, he's become one since September 2009. [[You don't understand.]] As for judicial reform and the work of state attorneys in that part, I have already said, but I will point out that we are standing, we are trying to speed up judicial reform, we are asking that as much as possible alternative ways of resolving cases be applied either in criminal or civil proceedings, because that is not only a trend in us, but rather legalities that have been applied in European countries, especially in the United States for a number of years, where almost 80% of all cases have been resolved outside the court. It's our trend, of course, it's not just going to be so easy to achieve, but all of these institutes that introduced the new Criminal Procedure Act, regardless of what was written in one wrong way, and which has nothing to do with reality, allow it to go much faster and more effectively together. And finally, finally, let me just say a few sentences. The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia draws particular attention in its work to oversee the work of lower state attorneys, the selection and education of young state attorneys and deputies, as it turns out that a hundred state lawyers are missing from the system of work of the State's Attorney's Office, but this applies primarily to smaller cities, where there is little particular interest in passing the entire system after the completion of the law school, and to employment in the State's Attorney's Office, which is ultimately not a challenge for young lawyers who have a greater claim to achieve their objectives in some other services. The introduction of information programs is our priorities and we do it, the funds are provided and it's just a matter of now technique no longer supporting because we've got money for it and the production of these software programs are under way according to all the world or European standards. The registration of property rights is also our priority in the civil departments, and as regards the fight against organised crime of corruption and national crime and other serious crimes in the jurisdiction of the USKOK, I don't particularly need to tell you, these are priorities that continue in 2010. But I must point out that all these crimes and this persecution of the USKOK is done by 25 deputy directors of USKOK, letters and numbers. We need, of course, to apply the new law a new space and streamline the network of state attorneys, an extremely large means of equipment, etc., but it is a matter of the Ministry of Justice that must follow us in this direction. I'm just talking about it on the way, but I'm sure those funds would have to be provided if they were to meet all the assumptions you prescribed in the laws you passed last year. Finally, I propose that, in accordance with your legal powers after considering the report, you accept it and take positions in connection with the state and movement of crime, establish the obligations of competent ministries and other state bodies to improve the effectiveness of criminal prosecution in order to prevent crime and improve the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62393	I thank the Attorney General. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62394	Yes, I would like to believe that this introspection by the Attorney General has really been denied this article in "Free" which I was thinking about talking about at the pay phone, "The MUP controls 40,000 phones, and the Secret Service at least that much." God forbid it's because it would really bring us back to Rankovic's time, and I think it's necessary, once again vis-a-vis fear that we're all kind of exposed to what we're doing with our phone, clearly unequivocally for a pay phone, to tell how many of these people who have been controlled in one way or another by the MUP, either by the secret service. Because if that's the way it is, and some get that, then you've pissed on all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62395	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62396	The Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. The state's attorney is not an athlete, so let's celebrate and blackmail him based on the latest results in the last round. The State Attorney's report is not a stock exchange report, and that doesn't apply to stock exchange logic. An evaluation of the work of a state attorney is always and exclusively an assessment of his work in total. The current stock situation is only information. We're interested in the entire stock, the whole way, and this is about a long section that's had a lot of slips, hesitations and downfalls. That's what we did today as we did last year and last year when we expressed our mistrust and when we didn't accept the report, that's what we're talking about today. I would like to express my support for all those numerous, anonymous, independent and professional state lawyers, municipal and county attorneys, who are doing their job in quality regardless of policy and policy expectations. Penalty law should be implemented continuously and without compromise. A compromise can be a means of politics until the law is broken. But it must not be the means of a state's attorney when he decides whether to act or not. If this is not the case, if no action is taken and if the quality evidence that is the key to a criminal procedure in democratic states is calculated, the quality of evidence, fails, is not created, is lost. Criminals and criminal politicians get a break and a second chance. They don't have the right to do that. We'll talk about the police as a vital associate of the State's Attorney's Office the second time that report comes here on the Parliament's agenda and when that point comes to the agenda. The quality of cooperation with the State's Attorney's Office and the justification of the criminal charges filed by the police, and we'll talk about it another time. On the possible elements of the criminal offences of false criminal charges or abuse of positions and powers in criminal charges rejected by the attorney's office and we will discuss this another time. But we'd like to hear a few words from the state's attorney today. We will not stand in the way of justice and the law. We're never, and we're going to light up and shine like boredom. And whoever wants to set foot in it, step on it. If Croatia had acted more decisively earlier today, it would not have been the hostage of a political party. She would not be embarrassed but would be an EU member, she would not be negotiating yet. The SDP during the last 7 years during election campaigns and after election campaigns clearly points to the misdeeds and obvious abuses that the attorney's office is seeing today. We've been pointing out the existence of very well-founded suspicions all along. We'll talk, propose and criticize. There's nothing here and there can be nothing personal. It's never been and it never will be. And once we win and take responsibility, we will ensure all the conditions that politics can and must ensure that the law is really implemented. We call on the state's attorney to enforce the law and to be a just and lonely person if it doesn't go differently. As long as he enjoys the support of the current parliamentary majority, there are unfortunately no alternatives. If anyone tries to stop him, any politics, let the police prosecute him. It's his duty. If that is the case, someone dejectes him and lets all of Croatia know who he is and who he is or who the police are. It's a state's attorney's duty. It's his legal and social role. That's exactly what the state's attorney, despite the obvious evidence, was not prepared to do during most of the mandates, which is exactly what we expected of him, which is why he did not meet our expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62397	Thank you. It is up to the club of independent representatives of Đurđa Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62398	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. State Attorney. I will say right from the start that we will support the 2009 report on the work of the state's attorneys, which is, of course, expected primarily because of the fact that progress in the work of the state's attorneys is being recorded. Unfortunately, there is also an increase in the number of criminal offences in certain areas. Since it is fully expected because of the public-dominated atmosphere in the Parliament, because of all that is said, it is mainly economic crime, the suppression of corruption and organised crime. On behalf of our club, I will draw attention perhaps to some parts of the Report that might be neglected or might be assessed as minor, and they are certainly not less important and they are certainly not less important, and are related to domestic bullying, drug abuse and criminal rights for children and minors. According to the report, there was a slight decline in the number of acts of domestic violence compared to the year 2008 when there were 1285 applications, 2009. 1227, defendants 812, convicted 743. I want to draw our attention to perception, but I'm afraid not only of perception but also of the facts that are visible in everyday life, many parts of the statistics are being warned by female NGOs, but if we look at direct neighborhoods, somehow we get the impression that there is more of this violent behavior in the family, that we still haven't come to the extent that this is a problem, to which extent it can be answered, and to what extent it must be answered. Because not only do we remember during some anniversary. It is clear that in 2009, there have also been some difficulties in the process of domestic violence, as there has been a prior application for domestic violence and a prosecution proposal for a violation which is no longer permitted because of a decision by the European Court of Justice. In the case of a conviction for a crime cannot be prosecuted because it is a matter of judgment, which is why it is absolutely necessary to amend some laws. We really hope that she will be very quick, because a bully can happen to fit the tooth or eye just as well as the wrong parking. When it comes to criminal acts related to drug abuse, we also record the number of persons reported for criminal offences in the last four years a significant reduction that can speak of good prevention. But, of course, there's no need for that to happen. I would especially like to draw on a positive trend in young adults, where we also note the fall in criminal offences of drug abuse, and I would not question this report here. When it comes to the criminal law of the protection of children and minors, we say that there was a drop in the number in 2009 for crimes against sexual freedom and disorder, as well as an increase in the number of charges for crimes against marriage, family and youth, and an increase in the number of convicted which is certainly good, quality message and perhaps we would have been in spite of the so-called. Great topics should also underline that young people, women, and people with disabilities are not really neglected because we are mostly involved in so - called activities. Great themes. On behalf of our club, I have no intention of polluting why something didn't happen 10 years ago, 8 years or a year and a half ago. The state's attorney has pointed out several times the amendment to the Penal Code. He probably wanted to draw attention to how basic or one of the basic preconditions for quality work was. But it is certainly not to forget the political will that really reminds you. It's important something started to happen. It's never too late, and it's a good thing we've been taking care of that and changing the Constitution. We don't want to get into a trap of accusation and movement in a circle when it's time to start who didn't do something or did something. And this report is therefore supported, because we believe it is necessary and that it is good that this process is launched. I'd just like to say something that would mean something to us, it doesn't have to mean that we're right when we wouldn't accept this report in view of the processes that are going on. We believe that denying support would be one false message, perhaps even dangerous to the public, to the European Union. But it would certainly be a welcome message to the perpetrators, which could mean that we're either giving up some processes or we'll agree, of course, no one is irreplaceable, but that would certainly mean one time out that wouldn't be good. It's important to understand that the fight that's being fought is a struggle that requires continuity. It should become a normal phenomenon. We sincerely hope that soon the number of television cameras in front of your building and in front of your offices will decrease, which would mean we've figured out how normal business is. We believe this is the report and acceptance of the report on the one hand and the test of democracy. It would be good maybe, I saw that a while ago and a colleague from the SDP mentioned it, and it's probably going to be a question like that today, to confirm to us what we believe in the work and in the functioning of the rule of law think, which is that you've never held anything in drawers by order, that no one is forcing you to do now or to do otherwise. So, that it was without cover-up and that it wasn't about any persecution of unthinkers or how sometimes in times other people remember better than I talked about cleaning up friend lines. Your work and acceptance of this Report is certainly an answer to the question of how desirable Croatia is an economic destination, desirable for investors, for investment, how much it is ultimately desirable and as a tourist destination. It is interesting to watch a fully expected debate, colleagues from the SDP as far as I understand they are not ready to support this report, and they are actually directly profiting from the shortfall of your work. As far as I know, the HDZ Club will support your report, and this particular club and this party are the most likely to be hit. Whoever's watching and who's going to listen to this discussion on the side, may realize that if you have a break from each other, you're on the right track. What you should certainly do as soon as possible, so that you can do the same, and that we will all be less burdened by the normal work you do, which is to try to prevent leaks of information that are certainly damaging to your work, but believe and harm the general entrepreneurial climate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62399	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative and vice president of House Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Attorney General. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support and give a green light report on the work of the state's attorneys for 2009, and thus support the work of the State's Attorney's Office, state's attorneys, and in particular give support and give recognition to the head of the State's Attorney General, Mladen Bajic, in a successful and effective fight against corruption and organised crime. The state's attorneys in their legal district, as a primary goal, is his right and the duty to prosecute perpetrators of criminal acts. Police and other state institutions, as part of the Ministry of Finance, audits, financial police, the IRS, are authorised and obliged to disclose perpetrators of criminal offences, and file criminal charges to state attorneys. State attorneys, all state attorneys of the Republic of Croatia achieved impressive results during the reporting period, in particular in the persecution of perpetrators of corruptive crime and organised crime, for which a strong tool and tool was given by the Croatian Parliament, bringing amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which have been in force since 1.7.2009 with regard to criminal offences under the authority of the USKOK. The persecution of corrupt crimes is also extremely important for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the conclusion of negotiations, and the closure of Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental human rights. The progress made by the Republic of Croatia in yesterday's report by the European Commission shows that this report shows that the Republic of Croatia has made significant progress with regard to closure as regards the achievement of those criteria relating to Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. This progress was assessed as a good step, a step by the European Commission in the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary to thank the effective work of the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK, and the chief state's attorney in the pursuit of corrupting crimes. Therefore, the political and malignant plots on the alleged attempt by the Croatian Democratic Community, on the shift and on attempts to replace chief state attorney Mladen Bajic for at least two reasons. First because the Croatian Democratic Community government, the coalition government, proposed it for a new re-election for a new term of four years, we voted for it in the coalition and voted in the Croatian Parliament, unlike the SDP, which did not support the new re-election of Chief State Attorney Mladen Bajic in February of this year and was against his re-election. And for other reasons, other groups of reasons, that some media-political lobbys go with one popular spin, to damage and damage the political interests of the Croatian democratic community with these schemes and with spin that HDZ wants to replace Mladen Bajic because his shift wants to show that the Croatian Democratic Community wants to replace an effective, successful, and European-level affirmed anti-corruption and organised crime fighter. The SDP's decision not to support Mladen Bajic for the new term of office in February of this year, simply suggests, as well as today's discussion of the SDP president and representative, Mr Milanovic, who also gave a negative assessment of the work of the state's attorney-general today, that this debate on the work of the state's attorney at SDP's position was brought to debate on the work and action of chief state attorney Mladen Bajic. Therefore, the announcement was made by the SDP, which was put to the vote, when they voted against the State Attorney's report in February of this year when they voted against its re-election and announcements coming from the SDP ranks that if they won the elections they would change the State's Attorney General and put someone else on, they would install someone else who should serve the political interests of the SDP and that the SDP would, through itself, neutralize and protect SDP members from any possible criminal persecution. The SDP's decision today to show no confidence in the work of the state's attorney shows that it wants to give no confidence to the Attorney General. This has been said in countless shows, in countless interviews by the SDP leaders, and today, the SDP president, Mr Zoran Milanovic, has also said that. So we're very confident with all your dear smiles, unforgettable smiles that you share to us that we'll never forget that you actually want a change in the head of the head of the State's Attorney's office. And why do you want a change, why don't you give him confidence? You don't trust him because you expect him because I said in February last year what he didn't play and not according to SDP notes. That's why you don't trust him, and that's why you want to, and that's why you're creating one belief that this report on the work of the state's attorneys is not even to be accepted, in which the main focus and point is and the fundamental foothold of the fight against corruption and organised crime. As I said, HDZ will also give and vote in favour of this report, and this will also vote in favour of trust in the indirect manner and the State's Attorney General and USKOK and in general the successful work of the General State Attorney's Office and the Attorney General in the fight against corruption and organised crime. And finally, with regard to that part of the report, the Attorney General, on the page. In the 50th, concerning the reconnaissances and investigations of war crimes committed during World War II by the communist regime, you have made one observation that research into these crimes and criminals gives grounds for claiming to be perpetrators of these crimes and that the committing of these crimes has been ordered from the then military and political summit. The Croatian public has long expected that once again those who survived the then military state and political summit of the communist regime should be processed. These are crimes that don't get old, there are still very active ones among them that need to be prosecuted. This laugh of yours that comes from this side is truly worth every respect and every respect and shows a very perceptive one of your character traits very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62401	Thank you. ... Please don't throw it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I warn you, seek peace when you speak, secure, and peace when other MPs speak. It's up to the IDS club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62402	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed State Attorney, the esteemed gentlemen of the council. All of us will be far more interesting, including the Croatian public, such as the 2010 debate or the 2009 Report, and especially this period from the 9th month of this year to Christmas. What do I mean? So I'm going to say quite frankly, let's not paint here nor the people interested in domestic violence, I know that this is a huge problem in which my predecessor mentioned neither the Europe in which Mr. Shakespeare spoke but a completely open, possibly accused proposal against the former prime minister, which has been largely speculated lately by the media. And the media, I'll put it this way, don't do anything else, gentlemen, that doesn't normally subfling to them or the team in power or that information comes from the D.A.'s office or that information comes from the defendants. And that's why I'd like to tell the gentlemen of the State's Attorney's Office or the judiciary anyway, don't hold anyone's staff, no one. No government, no capital, no one. We Istrians would say whatever dudes they used to be. Everyone has the right to a fair trial, Mr. Agent. Well, we're all here, and especially here in the Parliament, we know very well how it took place in the judiciary. We all know who gentlemen have had a dominant influence since the age of 21, so on. democracy why I say so-called. Because you can no longer be sure whether television will judge you if you say anything about a pay phone or not, so for 17 years it's been in HDZ's power, for four years it's been in the power of the opposition. And those who are in power, clearly they did, and they were the ones who chose with all the clear legal requirements that one should have met often, and individuals had to meet those party criteria. And whoever isn't ready to admit it, I think he's acting in front of the entire Croatian public. However, it should be pointed out, there are absolutely fair ones, there are professional ones, there are independent and state attorneys and prosecutors and not to list anything further. And it can't be disputed but the fact is that they are angry or not angry with judicial employees that there are also those who are addicted to politics, to God and to capital, which is just as bad if not worse. However, I also dare say. If the judiciary is instrumentalized it will be the return to the seventy-first but the consequences of this year 2000 or 2001 will be worse than seventy-first because then the country was as much at its peak as let me say economic power, development, and today it's at the bottom. At that time it was hurt because of the spoken word, and today what I know is this principle is trying to reinstall the regimeal media. But instead of fighting crime, thieving and everything. I keep saying, a man can make a mistake, but he can't take it. And that principle should be understood between the others right now and our prosecutors and so I'll tell the judges. A man can make a mistake, take it simply can't. How much, I don't know, the verdict just fell, say, to the judges or to the defendant's proposals to the state's attorneys. Also in politics, especially in the executive government. Sometimes people can make mistakes and it should be understood sometimes, but steal clearly no one can. And that's just the point. However, what has been in the work of recent years in this country has all been about one nasty withdrawal of money. And the more individuals talk about fighting corruption these are their safes full of black or secret or I don't know what I'm going to call it money. I am particularly pleased that this article of these 80,000 listening citizens in the Republic of Croatia has been denied by a state lawyer. Because if that were the case, it would really be worse than that of Rankovic's time. Even though something similar is being called today by our bishops, so today this thief who is in action through "Istia et pax" has been attributed to the Communists, Tito, I don't know seven ski secretaries and so on. To see gentlemen, they're guilty, they're guilty of creating systems and not creating systems, and it's not the ones who privatized these systems. They're responsible for one INA, for one Pliva, not those who don't know them. But if that thesis is strained well that I will say I will start serving if nothing else mass for the recovery of the Croatian economy because it is only concrete what happened in this country from 1.7 on here when it comes to the economy. But let's put the joke aside now. Why am I saying that? The economic breakdown of the country's gentlemen is largely caused by this climate in public. No one is prepared to conclude any work without, say, a previous opinion of the State's Attorney's Office. And unlike the part where the church puts everything on communists and seven secretaries of skis, Tito, etc. One part of this is the case e pax affected, and this is the one that says that if the government promises arrests and opposition processes even more involvement and process, if the media is making judgments and leading processes to people, then the result is social uncertainty that creates political instability, legal uncertainty and economic stagnation. No gentlemen, because of this fear that is lurking in public today, and without the public sector starting to do something, neither will this country, gentlemen, be in motion. It's clear that we've all seen in the last seven, eight years it's all been for sale. And government decisions, maybe even before, and individual laws. For example, those who provided monopolies and perhaps court rulings and public competitions and TV shows on HRT, etc. etc. But what I want to say now is the same. Will the State's Attorney's Office, i.e. I would say institutional corruption, and that is whether the State's Attorney's Office can, for example, implement the foundation of a new Constitution to audit conversion, i.e. To deal with that war profit. I doubt that anyone would do it, and I also doubt that anyone was interested in war if they were particularly occupied by the leadership of the troops in five or six years at the end could build a system that he then sold for one billion kuna. What if, for example, Mr. State Attorney Jovica Stanisic for war or after the war was a major drug dealer in Serbia, and Stanisic was the head of their secret police force. Will these behaviors be revised? Is that war profit? What's that? Clearly, nothing will happen since the revision of the transformation, or because of war profiting, and that is simply the way it is. It's not policy-making, it can't be conducted by the State's Attorney's Office, courts, etc. etc. So they're going to continue to do business, and they need these scavengers who literally ripped off the state budget. I dare even say that in 2003 more went on more than went through the Institute of Conversion, although we allowed those through conversion to become pillars of society those who did so through public systems clearly in no way should become. In one word, let him who has taken a kuna for himself answer. Anyone can make a mistake, take no one for anyone. Now, we are now coming to what the Croatian public may be most interested in. I claim, gentlemen, not everything must be settled against Mr. Sanader, because Mr. Sanader himself couldn't lead the government and run the HDZ and run the state and every public enterprise and customs and HRT and run the ministries and control the unions and run the Adriatic and I don't know who to oversee and control the judiciary. No, gentlemen, don't throw it away. The president of the former government couldn't do it himself. A superman like that isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62403	Your Honor, there is no, Your Honor, Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62404	The truth is a small road from a beloved leader to enemy number one in this country. But no one's a superman, and you just need to be told that. Well, in order for us to have such an immoral practice to be counted on... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62405	Dear Representative Cain, please. Stick to the subject and don't jump off the subject. I'm very broadly allowed to talk about this subject, but what you're starting right now really has nothing to do with it. And please stick to the subject and discuss it that way. Please, and this is the topic of the State's Attorney's Office's work, and you're discussing it. Go ahead. Please, Your Honor, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62406	... That the state's attorney gives us information, which is what it's really about, because it's about the former prime minister, the man who led this country's HDZ twice, appointed a prime minister, chose... [[Specially enabled.]] [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62407	Your Honor, I warn you again to stick to the subject, I will be forced to give you a warning. Don't do this, stick to the subject, and don't argue like that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62408	I have the right to say, everyone has the right to one fair simple from trial, not disabling and so forth. What gentlemen of the public is extremely interested in whether those who have recently received forgiveness return the money they have kidnapped or their money will remain, or whether their property will remain, or whether they will increase their goods with which they are certainly no less than they are not created and do not belong to the work. And if then forgiveness will eliminate the punishment to return that money, it certainly wouldn't be better in this country, but it would be easier simply for many. And now I'm also not going to deal with this, this money that's running the news, etc., but page 77, where among other things it's said, that the total value of the litigation cases or the disputes we've had in the works, in the law-based representation was about 15.8 billion kuna. The total value of the dispute case in which the Republic of Croatia's prosecutor was slightly below 3 and a half billion kuna, or 21.5% of the total value. The total value of the dispute or level of claim to the Republic of Croatia as a defendant amounted to 12.4 billion kuna in litigation cases received during 2009 in which it was represented, and so on, this figure of 3.7 billion kuna is now mentioned. On what basis is Croatia being sued for $12.4 billion? Let's get this done positively in favor of the D.A.'s office. God forbid, we're broke. What is it, that those lawsuits... which, say, sues the state, and then the state gives them to Liburni, etc., etc. [[You don't understand.]] What there is also too much is the state's claims, a circus of 16 billion kuna, people do not settle obligations, push the company into bankruptcy or liquidate it or put it in a state of rest and now, on the other hand, some new company continues to operate, while some Istrians would say they have to pay it clearly. Working disputes, page 51, we see that that's the key to the settlement, that's good. Let's go if a man with a state can make a deal. But ultimately, the IDS will accept this report, but let the State's Attorney's office be absolutely autonomous, let the judiciary be clearly independent, and people have the right to doubt impartiality, because it can be seen that it never touches the team in power, but only on the teams around the government, or those who have lost their position simply in power. All in all, I personally support this report and the state's attorney, and I repeat once again, a man can always make mistakes, especially when he's in executive power, but he can't take it, and whoever took it really needs it for and for the future to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62409	Thank you. I pray from the next speaker to stick to the topic, tolerate it and say something that is in the context of the topic, but please stick to the topic, the topic is clear, the report is ahead of us. ... Please, don't throw your Honorable MPs away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Calm down, butts. They're on their way. Now it's your turn. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Đurđa Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want to correct an incorrect, but also an incredible quote, given the space in which we live, which nobody was interested in domestic violence but former officials. It's a completely incorrect colleague of Cain's, because safe houses are full of beaten women, women who suffer economic violence, are also full of children, abused children, and I can't believe you forgot a recent case where a child was killed by his father's hand. I sincerely hope that you are in the heat of fighting for media space aware that you have made a mistake and have done no harm to this statement to try to regain the existence of such violence and to report it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62411	Thank you. Second correction of the incorrect quote, the distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62412	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Although the performance of fellow Caine is indeed part of the Kaipedian phenomenon, let me correct the incorrect allegations, when he said that the bishops said that the communists and the seven secretaries were responsible for everything... They didn't say that, they said they were guilty of a lot of things. [[You don't understand.]] On the other hand, they blamed colleagues Cain for establishing an inhuman, non-democratic system, and the bishops literally wrote in their statement that it was a matter of inherited mentality that must be changed. In doing so, a colleague of Cain cleans up the courtyard where you live, remember Istria and all those crimes where your party has also participated and has not yet been resolved, and let us not let ourselves be divided into ours and yours, and let us not accept such a way of talking and arguing when it touches ours even if it is them and the communists.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62413	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62414	Well, he incorrectly told Mr. Cain that former Prime Minister Sanader controlled the unions. That's incorrect. And it's true that the government in Istria is trying to control the current media in Istria and control everything. And I think that as a representative representing Istria, he should be concerned and asked if the report can read that crime in Croatia is the most widespread in Istria of 100,000 inhabitants, and he is now representing Istria. Maybe he's controlling that crime, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62415	Please don't insinuate or throw in such a way. We're continuing the club debate. On the turn of the HNS club, HSU's distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62416	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this year's report on the work of state attorneys in a special atmosphere is being debated in Parliament in a special atmosphere because something happened that we talked about in all the previous or discussions on all previous reports on the work of state attorneys, and that is that when it comes to corruption and abuse of the position that must be reached by the head, which means to the highest peaks of politics, and that is what has happened now and happening. So one element of this different atmosphere is the fact that there have been top officials or former government officials and public firms. The second question is, unfortunately, according to the very person of the Attorney General for or against. So I have to say on behalf of the HNS-HSU club, when we discussed Mr. Bajic's re-election of the Attorney General, we said on the basis of, of course, what we thought was probably in the past when political pressure was made, not in the preparation of cases, but in the selection of cases that were being prosecuted. In our view, the change in the Criminal Procedure Act certainly made it possible for the State Attorneys and State Lawyers to act in a different way, but this change in the Criminal Procedure Act is not the cause of a change in political will but is the result of a change in political will. And we believe that, on that occasion, regardless of certain reserves, we voted in favour of renaming Mr. Bajic, because we thought and assessed that he had in his work the qualities and abilities that were in a situation where he was particularly protected from the direct political pressures that gave him and the statistical first-rate results. If you're just looking at the fact that the number of cases prepared by the State's Attorney's office were actually standing, or obtained in court. So obviously it's not just about good will and political attitude, it's about the ability to bring cases to court of factual preparation. In this respect, the assessment of the HNS-HSU club is when we look at the 2009 report, and even when you look at a little more detailed statistical indicators that in that report at the time when it was legal and also practical pressure on the State's Attorney's Office gave way to political pressure on the State's Attorney's Office, the State's Attorney's Office according to our assessment, and since we're talking about 2009 began to work first-class. And we won't interrupt that job, we'll back it up. We consider this work a key one of Croatia's catharsis and as a society and as a state, and we consider it without completing the job there is no progress for us. Let me say 4 or 5 things on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, which relate directly to the Report itself, although it is obvious that these other things are certainly in the focus of attention at this point. Five things I want to warn you about. The report itself discusses the equipping of state attorneys for investigations and investigations, i.e. new competences that have been given new provisions in the Criminal Procedure Act. And it's obvious that the State's Attorney's Office is very weak or not equipped to be able to fulfill those tasks. That's what we do for a living. It is therefore also the task of this Parliament to enable the State's attorney to function in accordance with the law, i.e. to have equipment and people with whom these powers will be exercised. In our opinion, the possibility of the State's Attorney's office to conduct investigations and examinations of witnesses and to collect evidence is an extremely important component and task of the State's attorney's office which is new, but which it must be able to fulfil. So he has to have people and equipment to work with. And that's something to take care of when it comes to the state budget. Because two are ways you can stop the State's Attorney's office from doing that. It's one thing not to let him do it by law or forbid him by law, and the other thing is not to give him money and people to do it. Both are equally effective. The second point I would like to warn is that this Report or this Report shows that there is a problem with the uniformity of the work of state lawyers in different parts of Croatia. It is simply being established in this report. So if you look at the data, if you live in Istria, you have four times more chances of being reported to DORH than if you live in Požega County, for example. If you are, it is statistical data, and if you are already registered in Pula you have twice the chance that the application against you will be rejected, rather than if it happens to you, for example, in Međimurje, i.e. in Čakovec. 51% in Pula, 26% in Čakovec. In Zagreb you will wait 12 times longer to resolve the application against you than you will wait in Čakovec. In Zagreb for 120 days, in Čakovec for 10 days. The best chance you have of not being convicted in Sisak, more than 20% and the least chance of not being convicted in Varazdin is 3%. And if you are already condemned best to have this happened to you in Gospić, because there will be a prison sentence at 9.6% of the convictions. In Varazdin, however, a prison sentence is sentenced to 26.4% of the convictions. In Zagorje, you have seven times the chance to be freed than you have in Međimurje. If you have complained about the verdict, it is best that you are judged in Vukovar, because you have twice the chance to respect your complaint than if you were convicted and you complained in Zagreb. These data clearly speak of the inequality of the position, i.e. the inequality and work of the state's attorneys, and through this, and through something that is slightly more than a technical issue, which is an unequal position of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in front of judicial institutions, which is, of course, a much bigger problem than this which might at first look technical, so the question of the club of the HNS and HSU is to the main state attorney as to how this is being commented, or whether something is going to be done and whether it should be done, whether our assistance needs in some way, or whether there may be some other reason for such an unequal picture of the functioning of the state's attorneys office as it is directly shown to us in this report. The third point I would like to warn on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU is the issue of rationalising state lawyers. This is where it's talked about, she's mentioned. But there's nowhere to talk about whether in the opinion of the State's Attorney's Office she's good or bad. In other words, whether it contributes to the quality and easier work of state attorneys or not, under what circumstances it would possibly be a single contribution, under which it is difficult. Well, I think it would be good for the state's attorney to comment on something in that sense. Fourth point. I think she's already been mentioned here. It refers to the representation of state bodies before courts in which the State's attorney is representing the State as defendants. In litigation cases, twice as many disputes were lost than was obtained. However, when you look at the value of the disputes received, the disputes the state received are ten times more valuable than those received by citizens when they entered the dispute with the state. I think it would deserve a certain explanation as to how it is possible that the state lost twice as much of its disputes as it got, while at the same time getting ten times as much material value in the disputes it received than the citizens in those disputes they got. But I suppose the state's attorney will also be able to say something about that, given that we are, of course, representatives of the citizens. It's a topic that we're at least interested in on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU. And the fifth point. At this point probably objectively speaking most important at least instantaneously. The HNS Club considers HSU, and I think it is necessary here to say it in the first place in view of the debates that have arisen in public. Considers the importance of a new institute of forgiveness, or repentance. First-class there is no way and as you have seen there was no way to reach the most large fish and this is the key to fighting corruption, the key to creating an anti-corruption climate in Croatia and the key to a new start, and that is what we need. There's no way to get to the big fish without the forgiveness institute. It is an instrument without which corruption will not, without which corruption in Croatia will not end. And that's why we think on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU is particularly important to underline the importance of the forgiveness institute because we think it's important for everyone to be aware that the abolition of forgiveness institutes is forgiven by the biggest fish and should not have any dilemma in it. And the HNS club, HSU thinks it's necessary at this point to stand firm on that wheel. The data in the Report clearly show on page 35 when you are looking at the structure of criminal offences, a comparative between 2008 and 2009 that, compared to 2008, all types of crimes in 2009 fall apart from abuse of official position. This is not because abuse of the official position has suddenly started to happen, but because it has now begun to process, and also because there are formal instruments that make it possible. And let me say, finally, on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU that, unfortunately, in Croatia, very rarely and especially in public affairs, they get recognitions when you start doing your job really well. Usually the recognition and greatest recognitions are given to those who parade or drive between work and work, between good and bad work of their job. You're kind of the most acceptable to everyone. The HNS Club, the HSU considers Mr. State's Attorney that you and your co-workers were doing a good job in 2009. The club gives you credit for your work and will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62417	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 13 hours and 32 minutes for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. Now we're gonna stop the debate. We'll continue the session at 15.00 hours. The first is the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Dinko Buric. Thank you very much. The speaker subsequently turned on.... and this debate by the clubs, I announced. It is now up to the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62419	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and MPs, the Honorable Attorney General. The HDSSB representative club will not accept this DORH report. The main state's attorney is a political puppet who prosecutes organised crime on an exclusive order and permits from the Ban Courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62420	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62421	Depending on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62422	Your Honor, in the beginning, I must warn you that it exists. First, wait until I tell you. You can't argue like that and call someone a political puppet. Please, it's a state lawyer who's just called a state attorney, and that's how you have to name him. It's official. ... Please, you can't call him that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't do that. ... We'll take time every time, but no, I'm not interrupting you, I'm warning you. [[You guys don't understand each other.]] It's my duty. I have a proposal, Mr. Vice President. You go ahead and I'll see. ... Your Honor, counsel, a warning bute gets when it's time for that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62423	Depending on how it fits whoever's on them at a certain point sitting or table. The reason for this finding is a lot, and among them I'm going to single out two groups of reasons. The first group is a selective approach to the fight against organised crime in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the use of the DORH and USKOK for the purposes of internal and inter-party political accounts. And the second group of reasons is the role of the DORH in the full criminalization and compression of the values and dignity of the Homeland War. I'll give you just a few examples from both of these groups, which are the reasons why we don't accept this report. Example number one. Mr. Chief State Attorney, the County State Attorney's Attorney's Office in Osijek has filed criminal charges against Josip Djakic of the pitomaca of the HDZ parliamentary representative. The penalty application was filed after the publication of the register of Croatian defenders, because it stated that Mr Djakic was a member of the command of the second assembly area of Djakovo in the period from 15 August 1990. until 27 June '91. A year. It is not disputed that Mr Djakic was a Croatian defender, everyone knows that. But it is highly disputed that during that period he defended Croatia in a unit that did not even exist at the time. Namely, such a unit was founded only 336 days later, more specifically on 17 July 1991. What is additionally strange and truly frantic, is the fact that besides him there are 591 other persons, all... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62424	Your Honor, I'll have a moment. I must warn you, in the opening part of the report, time stops, you're not losing anything. In the introductory part of the State Attorney’s report, paragraph 3 reads: as provided for in Article 40. The Law on the State's Attorney's Office does not contain data on certain cases. Therefore, there are no individual cases in this report and we cannot discuss individual cases when it is not the subject of the report. So please, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62425	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62426	Wait till I tell you all about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62427	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62428	I have to interrupt because I'm for it, I'm here. I'm here to hold a session according to the rules prescribed by the meeting, which is the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62429	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62430	Hold on. Please wait until I'm done. So we can't discuss individual examples because they can't be answered by the attorney general, because it's forbidden by law to contain it in the reports, therefore you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62431	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62432	Please stop until I'm done. You have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62433	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62434	But you, I run a session, not you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62435	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62436	I run a session, not you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62437	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62438	Your Honor, I'd like you to hold on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62439	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62440	You win, you win.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62441	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62442	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62443	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62444	Your Honor, don't speak to the Rules of Procedure. I, as chairman, must warn you. I have warned you and please stick to the Rules of Procedure, because I will be forced to apply measures to the Rules of Procedure. Proceed with the debate, but according to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62445	I'm arguing, and I know that what I'm saying doesn't want to hear, and many don't want to hear it. But let me have the right in the Croatian Parliament, as a representative of the citizens I represent, to say what they want to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62446	We can only talk about what's the subject, not what... Here you go. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62447	And I'm stating why the HDSSB club is not satisfied with the DORH's work report, and I'm rather sticking to Mr. Vice President's subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62448	It's not the subject of the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62449	I'm more on the subject than the representative of the HDZ Club was.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62450	They're sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62451	That's what I'm talking about. It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62452	Allow me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62453	It's not. I'm more on the subject than the Honorable Vice President of the Shex Parliament has ever been on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62454	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62455	He was talking about SDP, and I'm talking about specific cases of work... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62456	Your Honor, I have to give you a warning because you don't listen to what I'm telling you and you're having sex with the chairman. You can't do that. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62457	Mr. Chairman, I'm giving it to you for the right. But you realize that every time I go out for this pay phone, you're gonna have to listen to what you don't want to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62458	You're the only one who talks like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62459	I'm not a member of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62460	Please, you'll talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62461	... [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62462	Your Honor, you will only have to speak what the subject is. Please proceed to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62463	I continue to object to the work of the State's Attorney's Office and why we will not accept this report. And please, Mr. Vice President, with deep respect for you and respect, let me say mine. They have the right to correct incorrect allegations, have the right to replica, have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, whatever they want. Just let me say, for me this is a topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62464	According to the Rules of Procedure, please go to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62465	For me, the topic of the agenda is the work of the State's Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62466	That's right, but so is
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62467	Not the tables and charts that are written.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62468	No, you have to do what the report says. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62469	Mr. Vice President, you're in violation of the Rules of Procedure because you're interrupting my work. I'm here to speak for myself, not for myself, but for the people who sent me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62470	Your Honor, you must follow the Rules of Procedure. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62471	Here, I'm moving on. So together 592 people and I will end up with a finding if it is true they have damaged the state budget for 7.5 million kunas how much they cost the shares of the Croatian Defence Fund for those 316 days in a non-existent and non-existent unit. I call and ask Mr. Attorney General why 205 days after awaiting this application there is still no answer whether it is justified or not. If he didn't tell anyone, he didn't tell anyone. Josip Djakic, the esteemed Mr. Josip Djakic, is not only a parliamentary representative, he is also the president of HVIDRA Republic. And it is understandable that the public's interest above all and the Croatian defenders are whether the allegations that are stated there are correct. Because it is frantic that 592 people from Pitomaca, Slatine, Virovitica began defending Croatia in the 1990s in August without the Djakovci knowing anything about it. The following example, Mr. Chief State Attorney, as well as USKOK Director, Mr. Dinko Cwitan, is on your hands, but according to what is available to me and to the hands of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the application of the Association of citizens of Slatina has been sent. Now I'm asking you why you keep quiet about this? Because it's a complaint against highly-positioned local HDZ officials. I am still talking about a selective approach to resolving the issue of bribery, corruption and organised crime. It's a case of purchase and illegal and illegal provision through the Hypo Bank, which is in your interest, Mr. Secretary-General, that I'm giving you more information if you didn't know where it was on the real estate that it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62472	Your Honor, you continue to talk to individual subjects about
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62473	... [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62474	You can't talk about it any further. Keep going, but without, please, I'm going to have to use your Rules of Procedure again, don't do it! Keep going, but without that, keep going. Don't! I've tolerated enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62475	You keep making it impossible for me in my line of work. [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]] My job here is to talk. It's your job to allow me to say what I have to say, Mr. Vice President. And I sincerely and nicely ask you to let me do my job at the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62476	You can't say what's not a topic
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62477	In Croatian Parliament
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62478	Please proceed to the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62479	The subject is the work of the DORH, Mr. Vice President, the work of the DORH. And inaction is what needs to be said. Not just what's been done. And nothing has been done on the application that stands and I ask why it stands in someone's drawer at the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Slatina to apply against 3 officials of the HDZ City Committee and also against the respected representative of Mr Djakic who have made it possible to illegally load a mortgage worth 2 million kuna and receive a loan of 6 million kuna. Another group of reasons, I hope you will allow me to talk about it because it is about the reasons why the Croatian public is particularly sensitive, and it is about the reasons why we think that the DORH is involved in criminalising the Homeland War by its conduct or failure, i.e. to allow what is happening to happen. I'll give you a few examples. The first question is, and the first example, the Croatian public is not unknown who Savo Strbac is, it is known that it is the person who acted highly during the occupation in the so-called so-called responsibilities. Republika Srpska Krajina -- the justice secretary was. The person who organised the courts of occupation organised camps and prisons where Croatian civilians and Croatian defenders were tortured and killed. About the role of Sava Strbec in Veritas and the fabrication of false data I will not waste words. But I must say it is almost incredible that the Croatian State Attorney's Office, the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb, Savo Strbca, is proposing as a witness to the prosecution of Croatian Generals Mirko Norac and Rahim Ademija. So, he suggested that Savo Strbac be a witness to the indictment of Croatian generals. When it came to light, one Osijek lawyer filed a criminal complaint against Sava Strbec that when he came to the trial in Croatia by force of law he would be arrested and prosecuted criminally for all of that and those crimes he committed during the occupation in so-called. Republika Srpska Krajina. You know what happened behind that? The moment the criminal application was filed, the State Attorney's Office gave up Sava Strbec as a witness, and there is no response to the applicant's application until today, which should otherwise be normal. Either the application is justified and then it is said to be processed or not founded and rejected. Savo Strbac a criminal and a villain to witness the Croatian State's Attorney's Office in the trial of Croatian generals is truly amazing. And I ask the question then, and for whom, whose interest and whose order is our Croatian State's Attorney's Office? Example No. 2., General Andrija so-called JNA Andrija Biorčević was publicly praised several times in Baranja about Vukovar and today's events, how he personally led the shelling of Vukovar and to repeat it countless times. I ask the question why so far no one in Croatia from the State's Attorney's Office and you are the first person, Mr. Chief State Attorney, why no one against Andrija Bijorčević did not ask for artillery diaries for the shelling of Vukovar, but did not press charges yet. Why there is no one yet who is responsible for the crimes in Borovo Selo, Dale, Četekovac, Balinci where Croatian civilians were killed by the Law of Forgiveness are all forgiven. And you know by what excuse? That no one will be responsible for the murdered 12 officers for Bor's village because they are said to have been committed not by members of the army, but by civilians and not by category of war crimes, and they are covered by the Law of Forgiveness. Well, that's terrible! It's a terrible thing to do. I will not waste my words on a number of things already said about SDSS President Stanimirovic's statements. It's all said, we've already said everything. But I must ask the question whether the State's Attorney's Office is considering doing something against such statements, because such statements directly violate the Declaration of the Homeland War, which this Parliament adopted on 13 October 2000, which is binding on all and state institutions, as well as on all individuals in the Republic of Croatia. And in the end, I'm just going to ask a question against the Homeland War as to how it was possible for a person who herself admitted to being a multiple murderer and who was a member of the ZNG and HV to get the status of a crown witness. It's about Krunoslav Fehir, who himself admitted to being a murderer and who was a member of HV and ZNG, no criminal organization. The USKOK Act makes it clear that the status of a crown witness can only be obtained by a person who is a member of a criminal organisation. Does this mean that in the Croatian State Attorney's Office, the National Guards Assembly and the Croatian Army whose Fehir was a member of the criminal organisation? That's the question I'm asking. And I'll conclude. We do not accept this Report for the following reasons: The State Attorney's Office acts in the interest of those who are currently in power, who are also using it as a means for both within party and among party accounts, primarily with political inexperiences or in their ranks or with other parties. The DORH, as well as the highest instance of the Croatian judiciary, participate in criminalising and disgusting the value of the Homeland War's dignity by their decisions and moves. And if he has a very powerful drug that the new USCOD and DORH Law gave exactly about the DORH, a very powerful drug for the treatment of an epidemic called organised crime in the Republic of Croatia because it has received epidemic proportions DORH doesn't use that. [[Thank you very much. You're out of time.]] Here I go. I'm just about done. The source of the epidemic has been identified and located. [[Thank you very much.]] You've taken more of my time than you've given me back. It's not. [[Intruding Capricorn: Time has come to you.]] I'm a hitchhiker, too. The source of the epidemic is also followed by isolation and quarantine, and for the successful cure of the same measures, all other diseases involving organised crime must be taken. [[You're done. Thank you very much.]] Here I go. [[Employing Capricorn: Dear Representative, finish the debate.]] The task will not be difficult, because Mr. Secretary of State and others have been identified. He's waiting for them... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62480	Agent, I'm giving you a heads-up... words. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please leave the pay phone. Thank you very much. Please leave the pay phone. Thank you very much. Here's an example of how it works against the Rules of Procedure. We've got one now, we've got one named, an injury. I took your word from you on this wheel. You can sit down, but you can't talk. Your Honor, stop it! Come on, sit down. Sit down. I took your word and you no longer have the right to speak on that wheel. Please, Your Honor, calm down, you're obstructing the Parliament. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62481	Mr. Vice President, you have injured and abused two articles of the Croatian Rules of Procedure. This is Articles 213 and 214. You hurt him because you gave Dr Buric a warning about getting away from the topic, although the fact that he was talking about the subject all the time and none of his sentences were missed in the opposite of the topic on the agenda. And you have failed to activate the article yet, to follow Article 214(3). So, the MP is told a warning if he or she interferes with his attackers or otherwise what I mean is that you should and you are not too late to give yourself a warning because you deliberately and deliberately tried to unfocus Dr Buric as you do from session to session day to day. Unfortunately, it seems to me that you did it today, but Dr. Buric was doing well regardless of your uncultural incursions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62482	Thank you very much. This is not how I hurt the Rules of Procedure and Article 214 or any other Your Honor, you have no right to speak because I have taken away your word for it. [[Intruder: Yes, it is, you've hurt him quite badly.]] Calm down. [[I'm right! I don't, so you can see I'm right. /]] Well, it's an obstruction. Obstruction of Parliament's work. [[You didn't let me talk when I was supposed to.]] Please! Your Honor, I do. Please stop talking because you can't talk. [[It is my duty to speak, and it is your duty to listen.]] I took your word Please! [[I'm laughing, I'm laughing.]] I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure for one moment and we're moving on with the debate. [[You didn't let me talk when I was supposed to.]] It's SDSS's turn, distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62483	Mr. Vice President, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. This report by the State Attorney's Office on the work of state lawyers in the Republic of Croatia for 2009 will support the Croatian Democratic Party MPs' club. They'll support him as well as supported the election of a state attorney, because he thinks it's not good to interrupt, that it's not good to stop what we expected to start before it started. And in that sense, this report in a series of its segments testifies that the State's attorneyship with increasing freedom, with increasing independence, can carry out its legal and constitutional activity. How much independence and freedom the State's Attorney's Office has is certainly not dependent and cannot depend on the person who is at the head of the State's Attorney's Office. We can depend on the level of professionalism, depending on how independence is used in business, and of course professional ethics can depend on both the state's attorney and his deputies. However, the overall degree of independence of the State's Attorney's Office and freedom in judicial proceedings depends on all of us, including this Parliament, and those who make up it, so clubs and political parties. It depends not only on clubs and political parties in this House, but also on those who own money, and then with the foundation of money they also possess social power. It depends and depended on a long number of years, and now less and less on how much organised crime can act and act on its own means and way towards limiting the independence and freedom of the State's attorney, namely the work of the deputy state attorney. It also depends, of course, on the inherited practice of choosing state attorneys, or deputies. It also depends on the inherited mentality and some kind of philosophy that formed during the year. Expecting that all of this can be changed in one or two terms, in our circumstances, Croatian circumstances are not realistic. That would be good, but it's not real. And in that sense, what is happening now, the space that is freed for the smooth work of the State's Attorney's Office is certainly something that needs to be welcomed and must not be disturbed. Those who say there is still a need to be alert so that the possible impact does not occur in view of the strength and political conflicts that are being fought in society, so as not to have a negative impact on the work of the State's Attorney's Office have the right. You need to be careful. But that's why there's a public debate, that's why there's this body, and that's why there are other segments that are obliged to watch political processes, political debates don't spill over into the river of justice, including the State's Attorney's office. Beyond that, and more and more than that, it would actually be an effort to limit independence and independence in the work of the State's Attorney's Office. As for the report itself, I regret that there was a debate that did not actually discuss the report, nor did the report give the necessary attention, but discussed things that are not less important, but the report does make up what is real and the reality of the circumstances within which the State's Attorney's Office works. In that sense, I'll only single out a few segments. Sam's chief state attorney said that the State's Attorney's Office has been extremely active over the past years when it comes to recording the Republic of Croatia in ownership books, over land that was either social property, or was private property, but with unregulated ownership records. And this second one really presents a serious problem for many people, many people on islands, many people on the continent, especially in areas that were the result of various migrations, such as islands throughout the 20th century, or such as areas affected by war, refugee and war casualties. And for this reason, it seems to us, Mr. State Attorney, that automation, schemaism and routine, which the State's Attorney's Office recorded as having, in this case, recorded the Republic of Croatia as the owner and in cases where there are clear in the cadastrian books which are non-annual, rather than the decades-old owner of that country or that property, that in this case, it has been made an overzealous job that will result in a serious threat to the rights of people on the one hand, and on the other hand, it has been by burying courts with possible disputes in terms of proof of who is the real owner, whether the Republic of Croatia to which the State's attorney has written, or is the real owner of the one who has used that country for decades and was de fact, paying all the things that should be paid, and avoiding entry for various reasons that it is certainly not to be explained here. For this reason, I think it would be good for the State Attorney's Office to find a way to stop such automatic enrollment and end this kind of overzealous recording on the one hand, and on the other hand to open the process that people can at some time, and that is how much I understand by law by 2015, but with the help of the State to sign up as owners of what is theirs, and not to absorb the state. I think this would be of paramount importance to protect the interests of citizens and their fundamental constitutional rights, which is the right to ownership, and on the other hand, that this would be extremely important for the non-exploitation of our judiciary with possible litigation that could follow. Another thing you'd like to say is the law on compensation for damages resulting from acts of terrorism or public demonstrations. The law has been in force since 2002, 2003, and is actually one source of uncertainty for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm talking about a group of citizens, but I'm not losing sight of any other possible citizens who can get into this situation. It is the following: if one's property is destroyed, damaged, destroyed, mined, burned whatever it is, and if the state has not been able or has not done everything it has done to protect that property, whether it is a moving or immovable property, a house or a car, the current situation is such that, in fact, if someone is to be burned down during public demonstrations, the state has de facto no obligation to own the property but to refer it to the Rehabilitation Act. Let's say it happens on the island of Rovinj and that although it's unlikely that any demonstration of this kind could happen, but let's say something similar happens, that in that case people can't actually have in the state absolutely no protection stops and damage compensation. We already had this case with a car in front of the City of Zagreb, where people in court had to prove who would compensate for that damage, and in the case of houses it was about people referring to the Rehabilitation Act. The Law on Reconstruction does not apply throughout the Republic of Croatia but only applies in a limited area and it is absolutely a law that must be amended. And I think, Mr. State Attorney, that it would be time for the State's Attorney's Office to inform the Parliament that this law is no longer in line with citizens' interests and that you can't make decisions based on it to protect people's interests, including the few hundred that, whose houses were destroyed in '90, '91, '92. who sought the protection of their rights in court, and because of the termination of the law on mandatory relations, they found themselves in a legal limb situation, and this law, which I was speaking about, is done by means of terrorist acts or public demonstrations, does not give them the opportunity to receive any kind of compensation. Only if they haven't lost their lives. In the end, I'd like to say something about the capacity of the State's Attorney's Office. That's what you were saying in your opening statement, and that's what Mrs. Vesna Pusic was talking about. In view of the amendments to the Constitution and in particular the provisions whereby acts which can be characterized as acts of war profiting, therefore those crimes which have been in the period of '91. Until '97. in the field of the conversion of privatisation and since most of these works should belong to either USKOK, whether the State's Attorney's Office has the question of whether the State's Attorney's Office has the necessary personnel, material and technical capacity to accept on itself an extended potential body of cases, cases which should be examined at the very least so that it can then decide whether there is room for an investigation and whether there is room for the initiation of the investigation procedure. In this regard, I find it extremely important that, before the adoption of the budget for next year, the State Attorney's Office, in accordance with the amendments to the Constitution, obtain adequate status, adequate support including the Office for the Prevention of Organized Crime. And quite in the end, although you have talked about it in some ways, it seems to me that it would be good if a report for a year that stands out, so for 2010, there is some more information about how and how professional ethics is handled, in matters of professionality of the deputy state attorney, municipal and county attorneys. We heard here in Mrs Pusic's statement that there are great oscillations about it. We also know from experience that there are considerable burdens in view of the inherited way of working of certain municipal and county attorneys and it would be good if, in this respect, in the report itself, and that means in your internal work, you were to establish some way that you would come up with an indication of what level of professionalism is, what is the level of professional ethics because the debate on the State's Attorney's Office which will only come to the question of the responsibility of the State's Attorney General, which will not take into account the overall system of the State's attorney, which will not take into account the fact that a large number of decisions are taken at the level of municipal, county attorneys are of course not a debate that sees the necessary whole. And for this reason, we at the SDSS Club think it would be good to have a report for next year that would be dedicated to seeing what is done in the structure of the State's Attorney's Office and how it is done in terms of raising and respecting professional ethics within the activities of the State's Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62484	Thank you very much. And there's also the HSS club, the esteemed representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62485	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General. Here, on behalf of the HSS Club and we will be showing ourselves about this 2009 report on the work of the state's attorney's office. The opening part of this report has already highlighted the basic and most important data on the work of state lawyers in 2009. It has been pointed out that in 2009 the State Attorney's Office carried out 53 Municipal State Attorney's Offices, 20 County State's Attorney's Offices, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime popularly called USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. In 2009, there was a slight increase in the number of criminal charges filed compared to 2008 by approximately 2%. In 2008, 85 thousand and 069 applications were received and 86 thousand 406 applications were received. The increase in criminal charges is present exclusively in adults, while criminal charges with minors, minors, and against unknown perpetrators are not on the rise this year. In the work on criminal cases, the State Attorney's Office kept the level of urgency achieved, and they had 52839 applications in the paper from which as many as 43539 applications were resolved by decision-making, and 753 applications were resolved in another way. It remains unresolved that it is not a small number of 8547 applications from which 78 applications or 0.15% of the total number of applications in the work. In 2009, civil administration departments of state attorneys had a total of 199289 cases, which is by 9.3% more than in 2008. Of these, 121709 cases were received in 2009, while from earlier years 77580 cases remained in operation, and there was a significant increase in court cases in this area, and for this reason increased work of state lawyers on state property books and an increase in the case in order to protect justice for a reasonable period of time. And finally, to a lesser extent, the increase of administrative objects. Furthermore, the report points out that the State's Attorney General is a hierarchical structured organisation headed by the main state's attorney who is responsible for the work of the State's Attorney's Office and who manages the state's attorney's office as a whole. In fact, it is wrong to conclude that the attorney general is authorised, and can give any state attorney instructions and determine how individual cases will be dealt with. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The State's Attorney's Office Act determines that the Deputy State Attorney is responsible for the work in the case assigned to him and is authorised to take absolutely all the actions for which the State's Attorney has been authorised. This provision of the Law on the State Attorney's Office, which has been adopted in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, has ensured the independence of the Deputy State Attorney in the decision being taken in the case assigned to him in the course of his work. The independence in the work and decision-making of the Deputy State Attorney may be restricted solely by law or in a manner prescribed in Article 54. Law on State's Attorney's Office. The responsibility of the attorney general and the attorney general refers to the work and organisation as a whole. First of all, they are responsible for taking measures to enable the organisation to act effectively and for making a decision on a particular case are solely responsible and exclusively if they themselves have worked in a specific case. In the process, the state's attorney has as many powers as it is given to him by a particular procedural law, and the effectiveness of a state's attorney often depends on the quality and manner of handling of the other bodies that he owes him, I repeat here the duty to submit a criminal application, or to provide information for his conduct. When giving an assessment of the effectiveness of work in a particular field of protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia or in the persecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences, it is necessary, with the work of the State's attorney, to appreciate the work of other bodies in particular when it comes to criminal proceedings. Namely, the State's Attorney's Office is a law enforcement body. His fundamental right and duty is to persecute the perpetrators of criminal acts. Other bodies, specifically and primarily the Ministry of Interior, i.e. the police, as well as individual administrations of the Ministry of Finance, are authorised and obliged to disclose the perpetrators of criminal offences and submit applications to the State Attorney's Office. Often of the work of these state bodies that have more power than the State's attorney's specific, but also more personnel than the State's attorney's office has, depends on the state's lawyer's success later in the procedure itself. Because if certain jobs or other events are not fully investigated and if not all the evidence and data relevant to the decision-making process are not provided, the state's attorney will, in addition to his most qualitative work, be very likely to be unsuccessful. The State Attorney in the Report, which we have before us, points out that, with quality work, the success of a state attorney in criminal, civil, executive, bankruptcy or any other procedure depends on the procedural laws governing these proceedings. Although giving greater authority to the state attorney and police in the criminal proceedings achieves greater efficiency, the state's attorney still warns in his report that serious violations, fundamental rights and the freedom of individuals can occur in this case. The procedural laws therefore seek to create a balance between the need for efficiency on the one hand and, on the other hand, the need to protect fundamental rights and the freedom of a person. This balance, but also on the ability and effectiveness of all the authorities of the criminal proceedings, depends on whether the guilty party will be punished, depends on whether the offence will be proved, or whether it will be initiated, whether proceedings against a person who will later be determined during the proceedings that there may have been no basis. Therefore, the state attorney concludes that for the successful conduct of a state lawyer, it is important to have quality legal solutions, as well as to employ professional and quality personnel who will be able to apply those solutions. In the State Attorney's Office, they believe that the existing number of deputy state attorneys, with increased efforts in certain state attorneys, can carry out all tasks under current regulations. I repeat the current regulations and for now, because later on we will hear that the State's Attorney's Office is crying out for concrete shifts in personnel, but also in equipment. However, the up-to-date and sufficient staff will be at stake when the State Attorney's Office takes over operations on 1 September 2011 in accordance with the new Criminal Procedure Act. The lack of deputies, but also of officials, will be a major obstacle to the application of the new Criminal Procedure Act. The report stresses that the vast majority of state attorneys have the material resources they need only to carry out the most necessary tasks. The larger resources needed to develop new forms of work, the introduction of new technologies is not ensured. State attorneys did not renew information equipment during 2009 and in part of the state's attorney's office due to the limitations of this equipment the situation is at least serious, if we do not use a worse word and it would be critical. It is precisely the state of the material assets, and in particular the lack of space and equipment in the state's attorneys' offices, already provides the basis for the claim that all state attorneys will face difficulties by applying the new Criminal Procedure Act on 1 September 2011. For now, deputy state attorneys are going through education, but there is also a need for training in interrogation techniques, for which it is necessary to obtain the necessary equipment. On the basis of an analysis of the work so far, an assessment of the material resources, the necessary space and scope of the procedural actions to be carried out under the new Criminal Procedure Act, has also provided a study showing the needs of the State Attorney's Office in order to be effective and without major interference with the new Criminal Procedure Act. This study today was not too much of a speech, although I think we should have followed this report, but more of a day-to-day policy was used, than what we're going to equip and team the State's Attorney's Office to do in the coming years, or years ahead of us. Data on the needs of the State Attorney's Office were provided to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, according to the HSS Club, it would be necessary to consider the needs of the State's attorney and to provide the necessary resources in time for the new Criminal Procedure Act to be applied without difficulty for all criminal offences. The report also points out that the crimes of drug abuse are in decline, estimating the multi-year movements in this area, it can be concluded that efforts to detect the perpetrators are especially involved in international drug trafficking and supplying small retailers, yielding results and reported crime related to the abuse of intoxicating drugs, fortunately not on the rise. Negative movements are seen in the structure of juvenile crime, and property-punishment is in decline. Finally, it can be noted that the structure of the criminality reported shows no significant deviations from previous years. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club considers this report to be high quality prepared, and with very comprehensive statistical data it also contains assessments of the situation, and the measures to be taken to improve the work of state lawyers, but also prepare for the full application of the Criminal Procedure Act, which I have already mentioned several times on 1 September 2011. The club of the representatives of the HSS will support this report and we propose that the Ministry of Justice conduct the necessary actions with the basis of the study, which shows the needs of the State Attorney's Office, in order to effectively and without major interference with the new Criminal Procedure Act, in order to avoid the shortcomings and problems expected in the application of the new Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62486	Thank you. That's where we closed the club debate. And we move on to an individual debate for 10 minutes, the first is the distinguished representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62487	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General. We have before us a report on state's attorneys for a year that was more than a mess right in the topic we're talking about, in 2009, and the first impression that man has when he read it is that he's done an impressive job, a really impressive job. 86 thousand 406 items were received, 2% more than in the previous year, were handled with much more intensity because of the new legal framework and with the problems that the chief state attorney stated in his report, which are personnel problems, lack of personnel, and spatial problems that the government really needs to take priority in solving, because it is a basic prerequisite for further quality work. Excellent execution, because when you look at the end of such a large number of cases, for the rest of the three-month inflow of new objects is indeed something to be commended, there is obviously a huge work and huge effort of all participants in this process. However, I would say that the biggest step is to investigate the area most protected by Croatia and which is one of the biggest obstacles to the final treaty with the European Union, which is research in the area of corruption, in the area of abuse of positions and of course other types of crime. A significant step has been achieved in this area, a major step forward and it should be added that it has certainly contributed to the work of this government, a government that has never interfered in the work of lawyers, its deputies and the entire structure that has been subordinated to it, a government that has never entered certain subjects, but which has provided a framework for successful work. And that is why I will re-quote the sentence of Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor has no untouchable. It's something that gives the political climate. I am sure that with the excellent work of the State's Attorney's Office, without a good and favourable political climate, there is no final success. The political climate enables normal relaxed work of experts who can do their professional work without pressure. It would clearly be good to hear such a statement that there are no untouchable and of all other parties, because then it would finally equalize certain tensions that are contained, which are politicised, and we should always say that we politicians certainly cannot be objective and neutral in these things and we do not have to be, but that is why we must let those who are, and that is the State's Attorney's Office, do their work without political pressure. Otherwise, it wasn't easy for either the attorney general or his colleagues, because in the media, the pressure on these bodies is bigger than ever. That pressure's a double. On the one hand, various insinuations, the publication of insecure data creates one adverse climate, and on the other hand one doubt is cast into the work of state lawyers. I think the abuse of media space here is incorrect, because it actually leads to climate politicization, which means the unobstructed conditions of this responsible work. We're also unhappy with some things. When we look at some objects, we seem to be being overworked too slowly, they haven't come to order, they've been standing for months and years, but behind that is a hard work, and we don't need to push, but we have to remind. It seems to us that at the level of county attorneys there are certain delays in some processes. Although this is not an opportunity to talk about certain items, but generally about work, I will still argue this claim and remind myself that several items either ended unusually, or several items at these county levels ended with a long wait. A typical example of the Primorje-Gorski County, the Rijeka Markets, where the county lawyer, according to reports in the media that we have read, held the subject for so long until it arrived obsolete. It is, of course, something that creates a negative picture and represents a stain on a generally good picture of work, a good result of work. We also wonder why at the county level some long-proclaimed items, long-published, long ago in the media documented still stand without results. For example. Sisak-Moslavina County and county contracts, or e.g. Istria and the famous land trade in Barbariga or, for example, Privatisation of Arena Turista, etc., etc. I'm not going to talk about the DAIMLER BEnzU and a whole series of other such phenomena right now, I think the explanation is easy to say and easy to find. The explanation is that adaptation in a new way of working and new legal frameworks is very complex and requires a certain time. And that we must be patient. Justice will be, I'm sure, reaching out. Why is such a difference that we see, for example, between the level of state and county attorneys? Well, probably in legal provisions that are very strict about hierarchy and hierarchical interference in certain subjects. According to the Law on State Attorney's Office, the above level organizes and monitors the lower level, but does not interfere with a particular subject and that is what needs to be highlighted when we are frustrately shooting arrows towards the top of structures, we need to know that in this legislative regulation, and in line with the recommendation no. In 2000, every deputy state attorney has to be completely independent of the case he's working. So there is no involvement of higher levels in an individual subject and this right can only be limited by an article. 59. The Law on the State Attorney's Office in which his superior structure can be involved in the subject by written means only, in writing. Which means he has to stay in that case and leave a mark. Of course, the deputy attorney general does not have to take such an instruction and that he can react to such an instruction by seeking to protect his autonomy in the work. And such cracks as we saw in the report are extremely rare and applied. Therefore, it should be said that county attorneys should probably be given more time to comply with the new legislation, an operational job that is huge certainly does not allow even fast enough professional advancement and thus we can find one specific alibi for what we are waiting for. But I'm sure the State's Attorney's office is on its way, how the political climate has been created that we'll wait, wait for these problems to come to an end. Perhaps another remark already mentioned by some forelegators, which can be addressed to the State's Attorney's office with all these commendations, which is data leaks. It's really embarrassing in the paper to read that last night in his statement he said that and that. I think it's an insufficient protection of human personality, human destiny, insufficient protection of individuals in proportion to the great powers of the state's attorneys. It should protect people, it should increase the responsibility of all those who convince and present such events because they can remain tragic and never solved human destiny. One name that comes up under these circumstances, and tomorrow it turns out it's not wrong and that it's not at all responsible for what suspected him or already accused him of the name will remain in black forever written in social chronicles. I cite an example of the man and the company that the police entered at 7 a.m. to control at the HTV Dnevnik at 7:30 was the full name and last name of both this man and his company. However this investigative process ends, his company has had to fire the workers, he will never work again, and he will never wash himself from the baseless, if this turns out to be suspicions and accusations. So we have to take care of the man, we have to take care of that innocent is more evil than letting the guilty one go. I'm afraid by leaking information we're creating a climate where innocent people can be on the front page, his family who suffers from it, his profession that suffers from it, will never be compensated. It's something the State's Attorney's Office has seen in the last few days and launched in some cases of an investigation, requiring police to investigate where the girl's data came from. That's the kind of information a girl has at police level. We remember the arrests in the morning when television cameras first arrive in front of the house, and then the police to record the sleepy face of the arrestees. These are things that need to be resolved in walking by amendments to the legal rules, changes in the procedure, but above all by changes in our consciousness. And in conclusion, because time is running out, this is a quality report, professionally drawn up, getting better and better every year. We need to support him, and we need to create a climate to continue this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62488	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62489	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Injury of the Rules of Procedure 214 and 213. First, 214. – the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang did not stick to the agenda because he presented individual cases and those cases and those of the county in which HDZ was not in power. On the other hand, the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of Art. In 213, it refers to you, Mr. Vice President, because you have shown by not reacting to this that you have double standards and when HDZ representatives speak, everything they can and want to say is allowed, and when MPs speak from the opposition then you have different standards. I know you're all full of praise from the HDZ for the work of the Attorney General because in the morning everyone gets scared if they'll be on the list, but don't get carried away there's enough material in his drawers for each of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62490	Time, time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62491	So when you're not in power and your morning will be much more restless.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62492	Thank you very much. Like this, first of all, the answer to what you said was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. He's not hurt. 214 because he spoke of the work of the attorney's office, and in the context of this, he argued with certain examples. And you were talking about examples in the context of work, that's the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62493	Smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62494	And secondly, personally, no matter who I was, I object to him if he doesn't stick to the Rules of Procedure. Now let's go, we have two replicas. First is the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62495	Here, just Mr. Shacks, not Mr. Shacks, Mr. Hebrang will explain to us the purchase of SHIMAC in these electronic devices or something like that. You see, Mr. Shex, Mr. Hebrang, for the second time, anyone who has taken the lip should answer to the principles if he has to and the Sheriath's right to cut off his hand. Normally, we will not go back to these conditions, but through this form, clearly someone should already suffer the consequences once. For the word absolutely not, for a mistake in deciding if he did not favor his own or if he did not use it, he should also not be held accountable. However, when you mention Istria, Mr. Hebrang, there is still something that works in Istria. There, shipbuilding, let's say, is successful, the topic of tourism is working, exports are working, and in corrupt economies, absolutely nothing works but those who do something and create something because of corruption, they have to feed each other. The same way I'd like to see it when you mention the Arena tourist, why not, let's talk about it and talk about it for ten years. But let's try and guess now, you're now Living with one Podgora, Sunny Hvar, or I don't know any other company. So there, if anything else, someone pays taxes, hires people and feeds those tourist employees who get certain incentives. Equally, Mr. Kunst isn't here, or there's someone who controls some media. If you want me to tell you who's censoring anyone there, then I'll tell you that they censor me more than anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62496	The esteemed replicator is Hebrang, not Kunstu. Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although he spoke to a colleague who was hard to understand in his testimony, I still understood two messages. One is Shimatsu and the other is Istria. The Shimaku file is in the Ministry of Health and Social Care, not destroyed when it reached its deadline because I begged all ministers to keep everything away from Cain or anyone else could come and look at it, so I invite you to go see. Second. The Šimacu company did the biggest jobs when I wasn't a minister in your coalition government, and for God's sake today when I'm not a minister anymore. Because it's quality, because it's operational, because it's cheap, because it penetrates the whole world. I hope I get something for this commercial. Second. As far as Istria is concerned, I understand that you're nervous, because I mentioned a few things that stick you in the heart, and it's completely understandable. But you will not stop Croatian TV with your actions, and you will not stop the investigation of Arena tourists, about Barbariga and all other famous Istrian problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62498	And another replica of the esteemed representative Mariana Perir. No throwing away, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62499	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Hebrag and I agree fully with you when dii advocate subsidiarity in the work of the State's Attorney's Office and it is clear that the County State's Attorney's Office should have their powers to do our job according to the rules of the profession and the laws that we have passed. But it seems to me that you wanted to go through those examples that you were making, perhaps warn yourself that sometimes even a top state attorney needs to push some of those people on the ground who aren't that up-to-date, so that they can do the job properly. You have set an example of Sisak-Moslavina County from which I come and I think already birds on the border sing about all corruption affairs that are happening there, about buying counselors, about wastefulness, about conflict of interest at the end of which the relevant parliamentary committee ruled. It's been relatively fresh for the last few years. But two days ago, two of the biggest crimes in Banovina were charged, committed in 1991, the massacre of 77 people in Bacin near Croatia by Dubica and Joshica near Glina. Thus, the remaining Croatian population, mostly the elderly and the children in the area, was killed. It's been 19 years. For 19 years, the state's attorney's office in Sisak has been awaiting these two charges of such terrible war crimes. Some who committed these crimes are no longer among the living. 15 of them will be processed and processed. I think that the whole process, and I agree with you, should be much faster, much more up-to-date if we really want to prove that it is a legal state and that we are implementing the laws that we have brought here ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62500	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62501	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I fully agree with you that we are dissatisfied that some things are going so slowly. And as far as your county of these matters around Ms. Mayor is concerned, there's so much that I believe that the county attorney who does this simply can't get over it all together in a short time, because you should probably work at least ten people on those problems so that it's over in a few months. That's why I believe in objectivity, independence, and I'm sure we'll come to an end. As far as the Homeland War crime investigation is concerned, I've often asked questions these years, but I've only been getting answers and I've been looking at cases. He's really in a lot of trouble. First of all, the problem is that there is an abject that has freed a lot of people from responsibility if they haven't committed a war crime directly. However, indirect involvement has a great deal and it is a big problem to resolve. And secondly, there's really not enough witnesses, there's not enough material evidence, and I believe that's the reason for these slowdowns, but that's where we're going to face justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62502	Thank you very much. It's our guest, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62503	Dear Vice President, State Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. The fact that the State's Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia is getting more and more busy, it's not the best social indicator. But it is certainly a good indicator that Croatia is intensively cleaning up from all those intruders who through criminal and corruption affairs have become rich at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There have been many problems in Croatia in recent decades, and only the last 15 months have started to open Pandora's box, whose content among many citizens is caused by defetism and disappointment. New constitutional changes have also identified the non-depreciation of crimes, conversions and privatisations. Such a winding up of the state is an additional challenge for the State's Attorney's Office in persecuting all those who have illegally and immorally enriched themselves through this conversion and privatisation. This Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has already been mentioned several times, so I think the state attorney himself said in one part, was amending the Law on Criminal Procedure which, in application of July 2009, meant that last year, created conditions for faster and better quality investigations of USKOK for criminal offences. The results achieved by the State's Attorney's Office, in particular, are to be commended for all offences under their jurisdiction. And you can see that through a high percentage of court rulings. In 2009, 94.2% of the convictions of over 60% of the prison sentences were made, which means that some such results increased the number of prison sentences compared to 18.7% in 2008. Interesting information about the territorial spread of crime in Croatia is that every 100,000 people are preceded by Istria or Pula, some 4,000 people are connected to 100,000 people. Especially forerunners in the criminal acts of drug abuse. There I am also appealing to fellow MPs here Caine, and normally to all those in that local government in Istria because it would be normal for every local government to have such indicators be the alarm bell and try to do everything to see on their territory somehow, to contain that crime and drugs within their area. The intensive work of the State's Attorney's Office is also a result of the fact that in 2009 it is giving and receiving bribes in a decline compared to earlier periods. Obviously, neither one who gives nor one who receives bribes feels safe anymore. Since 1 January 2009, as amended by the Penal Code, the possibility of confiscation of property benefit for criminal offences has been introduced, as well as the possibility of seeking a court to prohibit the availability of assets of suspicious origin. It is evident that the State's Attorney's Office is increasingly proposing these measures and I personally welcome them. And why am I saying hello? So because I think the most powerful blow to criminals is when they're deprived of the property that was basically illegally acquired regardless of who it was transferred to, recorded or transferred to, etc. I think that can be very well detected. With the value of the property, I'm sure everyone in this country can prove what's been earned by work, what's been earned by pay, and what's been done by corruption and crime. And I think it's the best way and a guide for everyone to determine who's cut off somewhere, because I don't think that such data can be clouded normally by respecting that family and all those to whom such property is often transferred. In 2009, 28.6m kuna and 424484 euros were seized. But according to the value of frozen assets we can see from the report, I believe that these amounts will soon increase significantly. The report also shows the indiscriminateness of those who dispute with workers for the rights that have been violated, and the most frequent non-application of collective agreements, whether it is overtime, shift work, night work or any provision that is violated by the collective agreement, and such disputes as we see from the 2009 Report were 2574. Employers as much as they can be seen in the Report, as a rule, lose more than 85% of the cases. So they do damage through additional costs that are judicial, legal, tight interest, etc. And they add extra burden to the courts. So I ask them to stop all such disputes as soon as possible, to go to agreements, simply to settle with workers, not to harm the state budget through such disputes. And in the end, with all the praise for the work of the State's Attorney General and the Attorney General at the head of that attorney's office so far, I'd have one question. And I ask that if you can answer to me later, State Attorney, how it is possible that during an investigation which is a secret piece of information to a particular media that then publicly publishes and writes sensational structures and judgments. Not only are other media at the time, on the basis of such a structure, irreparable damage to individuals but other media do not respect the law in that part, in part of protecting the secrecy of the investigation. Is there any intention of the State's Attorney's Office to initiate proceedings against those who transmit classified information to the media as well as those who publicly publish that information? Because I don't think I've noticed until now that the State's Attorney's Office and against those who publicly publish such data have initiated certain procedures, and surely in some lines whether they should see for themselves or those who are close to them who are the ones who actually do such data, and only to a certain media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62504	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62505	Well, I don't know what you, Mr. Kunst, were talking about some intruders in conversion and privatisation. Okay. Since the age of 21, 17 is at the head of this country if I am not mistaken for HDZ, the other opposition party for four years. When we look at who had the resources, then the state must have had over 90% of the fiscal capacity, local self-government if, if we add out of the government's budget funds with some four, five, maximum 6%. When you talk about Istria and here you're talking about drugs absolutely, it's a huge problem. Well, don't you think it doesn't scare me because of my children or what I know about the people of Istria for their children. Well, that's what we're all afraid of. But do you think there are more drugs in one Pula today than in Rijeka, Zagreb, Zadar or Split? These criminal charges only testify that the police in Istria have the least Istrians again, and I invite the Istrians to simply report to the police, yet there is something going on. And finally, if some environment is as economically successful as it is, and I know that Istria has huge problems. But again, he's been rehabilitated, for example, by a rehabilitated shipbuilding on which the state doesn't single out a single kuna. He's got sanitized tourism. There's not one Podgora. There's no "Livity" to not say all this. If there is certainly the biggest contribution per capita to paying taxes in a state fiscous, then it is again saying that there is certainly less crime in that area than anywhere else in the Republic of Croatia. You don't need to run away from a problem, there's a problem, and if someone took one kuna for themselves I'll once again cut off his hand if someone said something, don't touch it. If someone made a decision and maybe they made a mistake...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62506	Time's up. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Finish it, it's over. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62507	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, I believe that there is no one here in this House that agrees that there is really a maximum fight against corruption, and this is especially because you have cited a great evil that is still quite present in Croatia, which is drugs, drug dealers and normally many children who suffer because of it. And that is why I cited this example which is clearly defined in the very report that it is about territorial division of the largest, the most represented right in Istria, and that I normally appeal to you as a representative in this House, and normally to the local authority in which you participate again, to all take action not only to Istria, but to all other local authorities as well, so that everything is taken to care for the end and to assist the State's attorney, the police, etc. Because you know there's no such thing as a story that we don't know everything about our neighborhood who's about a small dealer or a consumer. And there's a lot of help there. And as for privatisation, you know, it's one area where it's too slippery for Istria too, because I have this whole series of lists of quite interesting privatisation procedures and implementations that took place during the conversion and privatisation of the Pula dairy company, Prvomajska, Pazinka, Puris, etc., now not to list further to the Istrian Bank. So it's safe to keep an eye on that too, that's what the Constitution defined as not obsessing over these conversions and privatisations that have any crime in them, and that needs to be normally opened up, normal people can't help it, but satisfaction for citizens can be great for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62508	Thank you very much. Your Honor, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62509	Well, he's imputing that someone didn't do something that could. And when it comes to drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62510	Please, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure about?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62511	So because Mr. Kunst used to be... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62512	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62513	... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62514	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It's her turn to be respected. Your Honor! Please, so be disciplined. ... Your Honor, I've taken that into consideration, but the unmovable point is, it's still too much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. The new role and the new position of the state's attorney and the State's Attorney's Office as a whole, as we have today, and which all of this position is legally approved and incorporated, has been installed long ago in 2000, that is, in 2001, when we first established the State's Attorney General Act, and the State's Attorney as part of a judicial independent authority. Next thing you know, it's jump-started. Then we passed the law that we evened out the salaries, for the first time the same rank of state attorneys with judges, because they were far better paid. I will now not return to the distant past, and speak of all those who opposed the adoption of these laws and such a relationship within the judiciary of the State's Attorney's Office. It's a good thing we're all in favour of it now, and we're promoting that system. And that's good. But is that enough? Is it enough in the law just to say that the state's attorney is independent and that we have an independent and a judiciary in general, and a state's attorney's office? As not enough in the Constitution for one country, because even the most rigid countries have in their constitutions written that these are democratic and free countries, but the way from declaration to truth and to the life of such a word is far from its end. But that's one ideal that we need to pursue and that all of us politicians here are obliged to raise the role and independence of the judiciary as a whole, rather than to lower it. Procedures and wars to create some equations of equality are the wrong way. The work of a state attorney, the State's Attorney's office as a whole, is such that he doesn't care which political party or option will be satisfied. Maybe it's the best position when everyone's unhappy, because that position is a very uncomfortable and uncomfortable position. It is, by its very nature, the way it is, especially in these difficult times in which Croatia is trapped, trapped by corruption and serious crime. The state's attorney's office and the judiciary aren't entirely created for emergency situations, nor can they have these capacities, so what I'm about to say is important. So despite what we all agree on in this normative sense, what kind of position it must be, but more importantly, that's what we're essentially declaring ourselves to be, but what it does, what we do every day, shows what we really are. What is the political climate in which the work of the judiciary takes place today, please? What kind of political climate is that? And what a political climate depends primarily on the ruling. What they think is the position, not only of such institutions of the repressive system, but simply of the position of man. We saw what kind of report was given before this point by the attorney general, we saw the ignoring of the ruling on all the lawlessness we didn't care, we took note of it, but not of the alignment and what that message was. If one little man's rights are trampled, he's being trampled in his basic labour rights or as a victim of crime, we need to understand as politicians that everyone's rights are then threatened. Therefore, the political climate in which justice reform is to take place is not similar to the climate. The issue of political corruption is a matter of a few excellence in Croatia. What laws are being passed? The golf law? Which the government urgently changed because we as a SDP club submitted a request for the protection of constitutionality to the Constitutional Court. It is now the same way that the Law on Agricultural Land is being changed because the Constitutional Court has not resolved according to our constitutional suit, but it is such a law that the ruling is now responding to several provisions. So, what am I talking about here right now? I'm talking about laws that include corruption. Can the state's attorney help with that? Can the State's Attorney's Office help? Well, of course it can't help because fighting corruption and organised crime of every kind isn't just a struggle between the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK, it's a struggle in the whole of society that's really decided to fight. And if it's been wrong in the past, no matter what structures and what humane combinations she's made, then first of all, the laws she's passed are legitimateized. Our laws are filled with such situations as corruption. The state’s attorneyship in many laws, i.e. in law making, participates. He's giving his opinions, especially through the civic department. These opinions are ignored by the ruling ones. Is that a good message? Well, that's what people see. They do not see the situation when it is brought, but see the consequences, see that they are poor. Every day, more and more. And through this indirect way. The political racket is also something that speaks of the political climate. If you're criticizing the government, then you'll see, then they call for order and action of the body of persecution. And why if that's the case? Why isn't that speaker called and when he praises the government? And these are the messages that citizens hear, and they're neither naive nor crazy. And sometimes the ones who got sick when they raised their voice went badly. How'd those whistles go? And not only are they famous, but those in their small micro environment were talking about local powers holding the whole end in fear, not talking about the bodies of repression. They got off on the wrong foot. Cars fly into the air, no one's ever been discovered for such things, and in the background are all just trying people to put an end to it. So this one culture of fear that paralyzes citizens, which paralyses then and institutions at least prevents them from working in their full freedom and in their powers, and then, like some kind of vicious circle, it comes back to the citizens where there's an inability to do anything about it. And there is a law of silence - OMERTA. And then you don't have a witness, people are afraid to talk, everybody knows everything, and nobody knows anything. And it's only when things get circumstances because things might not happen in this state, but things have always happened with us, and some of the sudden things start to open up. And an ordinary citizen and even those who were participants and witnesses and political events say we couldn't see it before. But apparently, that's what started with the acquisition and such circumstances that the truth came and that nothing can stop it anymore. The issue of this climate, i.e. the climate of fear, is regulated as a special crime in some countries. Known for this group of drug dealers, drug lords and drug addicts in Milan, they are primarily charged with killings and extortion as the first point of the indictment with spreading the climate of fear. And we, without such a single crime that has this very poetic name, which has a very specific being of the works, cannot do much to combat, i.e. primarily to prevent crime, especially corruption and organised crime. Then when the ruling say, it has often been common, at least it was unusual to speak publicly through the mouth of the former prime minister – I issued a warrant to the State's Attorney's office. So what kind of messages are these? No matter what he said or didn't listen to him, but what kind of messages are these?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62516	Bring the end, it's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62517	So here's to mention once again that this is, that these are the most important questions so that we can really come to an absolute one independence, to a man and to us who will not be popular but who we will burn because these are the simple times by fulfilling our own mission.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62518	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62519	Well, thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Antičević here is my wish to correct you, but here is the fact that you said that in 2001 you founded, i.e. the State Attorney's Office is enthroned, but from 2000 to 2003 while you were in power we don't know about any of the procedures that were conducted, so here is what I want to correct now that the political climate is not similar and that the climate of fear is spreading. Well, just the last report from the European Commission says it's a year ago and it gives recognition to this government and Mrs Kosor, visible progress in the fight against corruption. And that's why I think you should take that into consideration.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62520	Thank you very much. And we have one replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62521	I agree, Madam Representative, the worst thing would be to relativize crime. He's absolutely everywhere, crime is a crime, and I'm guessing he's both in IDS and SDP and HSS. Here, Jambo said earlier that they were taking him there somewhere until '93. With handcuffs all over the town of Metkovic. It's in HDZ, etc. ... 2003? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, come on. Well, he's not the only HDZ, but he's rich where he is most certainly is where there's the most money, and that's the ones who run the budget and the extra budget funds, and the rich and public companies. I agree that for some small environment some nepotism that I know about setting up jobs, some privilege, some thieving is as bad and there's no relativating as there is in any larger environment. Clearly, it's devastating for both of us. However, what are we gentlemen doing today? We're trying to transfer the full load to one man. What about the others? What about the bag today, and what about those who kept the bags? Well, you see, nothing. And now there's a big problem. We at least stand for one thing, for one fair trial, for fair treatment. If it were just the same for everyone, and I am in favour of a brave, fair, normal judiciary because if we were to question it, we would simply question the very foundations of a community. So that everyone in this country can make a mistake, but they can't take anything. If someone's been taken, then God damn it, I don't know how to express myself, so it'll become a reminder to everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62522	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62523	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honored Attorney General, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I must say that for me, the concept of independence of the judiciary clearly tells me that no one can accept the results of the work of the state's attorneys except for the one who is in charge of him and who reports this House about it. I would actually like to say that all those who say that the state's attorney is now on the move, actually throwing and giving a shower to their full work that was in this House, no matter who voted, accepted the report on work for both 2007 and 2008 when Mrs Jadranka Kosor, a graduate, was not at the head of the government. Iur. Why am I stressing that? Because even in the last time we had around the government it's nice to say that at the time of the government while he's at the head of the Jadranka Kosor dipl. Iur. The fight against corruption on the private road since the existence of the Democratic Croatian state is finally on the move. I can't agree with that because I have to remind you because I see that political memory is much shorter than it should be, but in 2002, the attorney general became Mr. Mladen Bajic. At that time, 12.5 billion kunas were taken from 2001 to 2004, and 12.5 billion kunas of economic damage were found. I would remind you of the Gucic group, Amfor, not to list further, Salonite and all other individual cases, including ministers from the then government who were equally detained. I would also remind Mr. Jamba of the year 2003 when he reported the HDZ to covert accounts. Perhaps it would be good for those results to be heard as well. But I don't want to talk about what they say about specific and individual objects. I think it's much more important to talk about how today is not an anti-corruption campaign trying to show it. It can't be like that. We are talking about the systematic work of the State's Attorney's Office, or all of its segments. And in that part, the most important message to me is the main state's attorney, which is that even now they have difficulty with material conditions, that they still have problems. And what will happen when the implementation of the CAP and all other parts of the State's Attorney's Office begins. That's my main message. 570 people who work there can bear all this burden with a message I heard today from the chief state attorney, which is that there are other important, many very important institutions within the Croatian state that must be linked in the fight against corruption. And the question is, are they doing their job? How are we gonna find out? Only when that report is finally on the agenda. And on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament in the 3rd month of this year, a report by the Minister of the Interior was put in place. It means what is under the direct authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it, as you can see, regularly walks from the 50th to the 36th item of the agenda. I would like to remind the same way that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the time of the adoption of the 2008 report has already requested that there be together a report from both the State's Attorney-General and the Home Affairs Minister prescribed by law to be submitted to this Parliament at least once a year. If we could know how much the government really did at the service because we need to re-remembrance every time what a state attorney is. The state's attorney and the state's attorney are persecuting him based on what's served him. Unfortunately, today we actually have a situation that works most for UskoK means a small number of people who do it thanks to the tool given to it. And that's true. And this tool was not given to him by the Government of the Republic of Croatia but by this Parliament. And all the powers given to the State's Attorney's office to make it more effective are adopted in this House. What's much more important is equally taken away by another tool, which is that it's simply no longer possible to prevent the work of the State's Attorney's Office. And that's what I have to notice that happened. They used to have to send rushes, beg, ask the state administration, so the Ministry of the Interior to do a part of the job. Now I can do it on my own. And only when we have that report on the agenda will we be able to say whether the government really rightly supports the fight against corruption, when we see all these concrete cases and that what happened in the Brodosplit case, which is that after obstruction and after all, we have a situation that the attorney general has to press charges. We could now be hitting on who knows how many cases that have actually lived since 2000 and where each of us could indicate a certain frustration. But it's unfair, and it's hypocritical to say that in the Black Chronicles, someone's name is named... a criterion. It can't go like that. So the names and people whose state's attorneys rejected criminal charges are being dragged in, and that's what should be the rule for everything. There can't be double criteria on that. I think the organisational staffing of the State's Attorney's office is something that's become a clear message. Secondly, the issue of pressure, it was what the SDP reacted to and sought a different way of working as a state's attorney. And I don't see any bad message there. What was most important, the State's Attorney's Office, all its segments certainly have an open door by the SDP. And that's not at all controversial. And it shouldn't look a bit personal, not a bit in the position of the name Mladen Bajic or anyone else. But you need to stay away from the pressures of anyone. I'll just remind you that it was said that there was auto-censorship. These messages were sent from the ruling party's ranks. What's most important to me, when the most thunderstorms, or when it's the most frequent thunder, then the least rains. That's why I'm prone to systematic work, building the State's Attorney's office in a way that really gets a full message. What is needed in terms of quality of work and what is most important to me, is that we discuss state attorney reports, as well as all other institutions in this House. Without that, we won't get a complete picture. What we have on a regular basis is a report from a state attorney but there are no other segments. 95% of cases have identified illegalities in conversion and privatisation. That's what the State Audit was doing. They're missing their criminal charges. This is equally written in this Report, but also in the 2007 and 2008 reports. These are messages that I realized here that it is necessary to change in the Croatian Parliament and that there is a need to support the real fight against crime. I can understand the efforts to in some way and the impression of watching work on a certain part of the security cases, but I have to look back and also give an argument for all this that I'm saying about the Report, which is a growth that clearly does not concern anyone with the rejection of criminal charges. 37.3 was the trend we had two years ago. It's already at 41%. My people mean that out of a hundred applications it's 41 in rejection. We are talking about that situation that can also be justified by private anonymous applications, etc. But unfortunately, a large part of it happens inside the official ones, so those we're looking at are police reports. I think that's where the problem lies. And I hope that today's top state attorney will give us an answer exactly what the situation is and with these reports, what is actually going on and whether it is in the efficiency, that is, in the quality of that work, whether it is a downward trend or a trend of improvement, which means that work is better done. I will locate my part of the debate over the chief state attorney and his report today in a way that we have nothing to justify to any party who treats a particular report and says we are satisfied or not satisfied. We weren't satisfied with the pressure that didn't resist. That's what's important and that's what's important. That's what you confirm in your speeches that it's only today that it's moving. What's most important is the state's attorney general since 2002 is in that place, and I just want to say that I'm clear about HDZ's enthusiasm because it really worked. when even the authorities of persecution work with you. [[/Employing Capricorn: Bring the end. Your time is up.]] That's what the problem is. Don't be thrilled with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62524	Thank you very much. We have one replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62525	I've been listening very carefully to this debate for hours, and I must say I'm on your thinking line. You know, the citizens we represent don't care about this report as a report, as numbers, as a percentage. 4 million Croatian citizens are probably very, very well aware of the diagnosis of the state in Croatia in the area of jurisdiction of the State Attorney's Office. They're interested in therapy, they're interested in solutions. And that's why your access to this report seems to me the most correct. How much support or not to support us is less important than what real movements we are going to make to improve the situation in this area. This is where we are responsible in Parliament and Government. If the DORH needs more resources, more personnel, more training. There's our share of responsibility. The DORH from these numbers and waist can certainly read what they do in the years to come, but it seems to me that colleagues and colleagues have less to do with the diagnosis of the situation and more to deal with the therapy of the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62526	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. It's our guest, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62527	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. I will support this 2009 report on the work of state lawyers, as I have supported so far reports on the work of state lawyers because it is a systematic, thorough report from which we see, which tells us about the movement of crime in the Republic of Croatia and about the work of the State's Attorney's Office and State's Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia. So, this report shows the movement and structure of crime, the analysis of reports in relation to known and unknown perpetrators, an analysis of the territorial distribution of certain types of crime, an analysis of the age structure of the perpetrators, and, of course, aside from the recent recent recent year's recent image of the crime movement, then gives us, in a certain sense, guidance for professional thinking, but also for political decisions, changes in the necessary legislation to combat crime and crime and organised crime, general crime and corruption crimes as much as possible. I'll look back on what I find particularly interesting in this report. Here's the thing about teamwork. So we note in this report that the total number of employees in the State's Attorney's Office fell from 2008 which would certainly be said to be not good. But what's good about that is that in that fall I don't know 8 people actually increased the number of officials in the State's Attorney's Office. So that's what we've lost in some of the accompanying services, and that's what encourages it. But I must say that we still need to work very intensively on the teaming of the State's Attorney's office both human and material. The 2009 Annual Report For the first time, we also have the opportunity to discuss what is specific to this report, which is the application of the new Criminal Procedure Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2009. The new law in its application has shown that the state's attorney is at the disposal of procedural provisions that enable him to collect the necessary evidence for decision-making, prosecution or abandonment of persecution in a significantly short time. Of course, all this requires additional knowledge and skills, enhanced work of a lawyer who is fully taking over the investigation, and the deadlines are extremely short for the effectiveness of the criminal procedure, and the failure of these deadlines can lead to the suspension of the procedure and should be kept in mind that it is increasingly complex criminal acts of organised crime, corruption and other financial offences that require the involvement of entire teams both outside of law enforcement and the use of complex technologies. According to the report, work on jumping items in this short period shows the results of new tools under the new CAP, and reports also show that many of the items that are now at the end, if they were led under the old Criminal Procedure Act, would probably be only at their beginnings. However, this report also warns that funds, personnel and working spaces should be provided, and especially after 1 September 2011, when the law comes into force in relation to all criminal offences, so when the law is fully in force, new employment, additional education, additional equipment and spaces will be required. Here we have heard already in the debate, there has been a lot of talk, we have also heard about possible obstructions of the work of the State Attorney's Office by politics, for example that they are not being provided with budgets for work enough for all needed under the new CAP, but I believe that this will not happen here and that we will all support the adoption of the state budget, that we will support the proposal of the Ministry of Justice for the 2011 budget, which is proposed to increase the resources for the state's attorney's office by just over 25% compared to the funds provided in the 2010 budget, thus providing the resources for additional employment of officials in the State's attorney's office, for added education and for the purchase of 75 audio recording devices, as well as for space equipment for the State's attorney's office to complete all their tasks in accordance with the new Law on criminal proceedings. In view of the fact that we are looking at a very active work of the State's Attorney's Office daily, mainly on jumping subjects, and we heard here that there was talk about it, it is a question of applying the new CAP to the secrecy of the investigation. By adopting the new Criminal Procedure Act, Article 231 clearly and unequivocally guaranteed the secrecy of the investigation in the criminal proceedings in which the European Commission insisted on the adoption of the law and when making the legal text, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the investigation, to protect the witnesses in the investigation, was prompted by a recent case conducted in the event of a war crime. This result, such suggestions and requests whether the first text of the Criminal Procedure Act found that the conduct during the investigation was secret and that all persons who learned the contents of the action during the investigation were obliged to keep such facts or data secret, and the body taking the operation would warn them that it was the issuing of a secret criminal offence. However, this provision has been subject to an amendment already during 2009, precisely on, let me put it this way on the media initiative, which asked for a balance between legitimate public interest and data protection for the sake of efficiency of the investigation, and then also to say, with the consent of the European Commission on the legal property of the European Commission, that article has been tempered in a way that also determines that the conduct during the investigation is secret, and the body taking action to warn participants that it is a criminal offence. And paragraph 3 where there is an interest in the public or other legitimate interest which is not contrary to the interests of the investigation and other provisions, that the body that leads may decide that a certain evidence action or evidence actions are not secret. As we witness daily the situations in which we read in the newspaper almost an hour of what was in the investigation, whether it is true or false, but the fact is that there are always some sources being mentioned and that it is mentioned that it is the data from the investigation, I do not know whether it is taking any of the State's attorney's office in that regard, to ask first how, if it is true how it leaks, if it is not true that these are not data from the investigation, or whether it is taking those measures available, in accordance with the Penal Code and the Law on Criminal Procedure and the USKOK Act, that it is possible to do something to ensure the effectiveness of the investigation, because I believe that very often then it damages the seriousness of the investigation, damage to the effectiveness of the proceedings, and not to say that it is often making a stage of serious affairs and serious business dealing with the State's attorneyship. Therefore, it is necessary to fully support the work of the State Attorney's Office, mainly under the new Criminal Procedure Act, to ensure that the State's Attorney's Office is provided with resources and staff for work, but also to ensure that it has a peaceful work on complex cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62528	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative, Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62529	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, first of all, it should be said that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 124. The state's attorney's office exclusively, so it's the only one who has the authority and duty to act against the perpetrators of criminal and criminal offences. That is why it is unusually important to pay attention to the state's attorney's report and the position of a state's attorney in society. Why? Because only politicians and politicians can create conditions of material, legal and political action for the rule of law, and the rule of law is... , i.e. DORH and courts can only legally control politics and politicians. [[You don't understand.]] If that wasn't the case, then politicians, and that would be devastating, would have the right to assess, assess and judge. They wouldn't call it democracy. That wouldn't be democracy. Now specifically I'm on this report. Right in the middle of things. The determination and tenacity of the State's Attorney's office lately deserves our attention and our support. Its effectiveness can lately be attributed, explained by changes in laws and legal powers of the State's attorney's office itself. These determinations and tenacity are labour decisions, and efficiency repeats the possibility of legal. However, for which it has been explicitly stressed lately, it is our duty in the Parliament, as well as the state's attorney, to explain to us and the citizens why this happened. I think without such an explanation, the report would be incomplete. At the same time, because this House is passing the law, changing the Law on Criminal Procedure indeed gave enormous power, though democratic power, controlled power, to the state's attorneyship that must be controlled by the S abor whether it is used in principle, continuously, legally and legally, or is the power of use under the influence of politics or the supplication or whispering of politics and politicians. We must shed light on this in Parliament. I must say that the efficiency of the state's attorney's office mentioned on the page. The 75th of this report is more than satisfactory. 94.2% of the defendants received a conviction. This could even be said more than can be expected in the efficiency of the State's Attorney's Office. But, colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately, the work of the State's Attorney's Office and the state's attorney's office is not just perceived by statistics. Well neither we nor the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will say for statistical reasons the State's Attorney's Office is effective, persistent and legal. I'm sure he knows the State's Attorney General. His actions are estimated at how successful, effective, courageous and determined he has resolved affairs related to politics and politicians. Because only the State's Attorney's Office can control politics and politicians. That is why I think, and because of the Croatian public, it should be said that my colleague Shex was absurdly and late to present himself here as a protector of the work and work of the state's attorney's office after seven years appears in this role on behalf of the HDZ club. After seven years. So, if it's about protecting integrity, or creating conditions for the rule of law, then I publicly guarantee you that SDP has been for it since day one. And I will not share the affairs from which the environments come, who is the political mentor, who is the political creator of these affairs. I ask the State Attorney's Office, led by the Chief State Attorney, that as soon as possible from the need for the State's attorneyship itself, but more importantly from the need of Croatian society, and in particular trust in the institutions of the rule of law and the politicians themselves shed light on and end the "Brodosplit" affair, it is well known how much the SDP insists on opening the procedure and determining whether there is or not corruption and criminal acts in this affair. Then open up and metrically solve Sunny Hvar. The SDP and I personally spoke several times from this pay phone that "Sunished Hvar" was sold past the Privatisation Act, it was explicitly stated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this Government, when there was no Law on Public Private Partnership, so it was not sold under that law either, and the consequences are very high for the public. And the most consequences are for the very reputation of Croatian tourism, but also for institutions such as the State's Attorney's Office and courts. It is then very important that due to the reputation of the Croatian institutions of the rule of law and the rule of law, the sooner they get and finally resolve the "Daimler affair". This affair cannot be used for political calculation. Dear God and Croatian citizens are so no matter who took advantage of this affair if he used it for himself. Then, "The River of Markets" the sooner the better. Put an end to and, then it's good work of the rule of law, then we can call that state that rule is right. About Podravka, Maestro, Fima Media, HAC, HH, whatever environment comes from, who creates them, who was their political patron and who they used to use. The Croatian citizens are certainly not, and neither are the State's Attorney's office. You have my personal, and I am convinced that the general support of Croatian citizens and all MPs, at least as far as the SDP club is concerned, is that it is uncompromising, legally, without the supplication of politics and politicians, without the scapegoats, but as to who it belongs to, you bring it to an end. One more sentence. We can, and of course, sometimes we do it out of the interest of so-called Greater value, however, is that protected witnesses have contributed to a solution. I heard that today. It is very important that the conduct of a state's attorney be principled and I could say completely blind to the search or supplement of politics or the power of any side. It is the only way we can guarantee before Europe, in front of us, that Croatia is moving in the right way, and that it will be a pledge to raise standards for Croatian citizens, not corruption, theft and... I forgot to say one more thing, it's very important to me to determine and how the roads were built no matter who built them, because it's illogical that one five-mile section costs 16 million and the next five-mile section is 160 million. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62530	Thank you very much. Time's up. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And now it's the honourable representative of Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62531	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. We can't mistake our soul and not say that the State's Attorney's Office has been in recent years, especially in 2010, to deal significantly with the growing key problem in Croatian society, which is organised crime and corruption. To claim otherwise would be simply incorrect. Moves are visible. On the grounds that a year and a half ago this significant shift occurred, we can discuss it, it may be the legal powers we have heard about, it may be the collapse of the hierarchical structure within the party's accounts, it may be the pressure of the European Union, it may be the righteousness of the civil servants, perhaps the combination of it has really led to this topic in Croatian society becoming dominant, and to show how much both the will and determination to deal with it. To paraphrase the second Mao Ce Tung and his cats and mice, the cat finally began to hunt mice, only it still makes a difference between the killing mice, or in the line of rodents. Looks like those mice that fell out of bed are on impact. I advocate that the colors between these mice are not made, or that there is no difference, because the mouse is a mouse, the rodent is a rodent. And specifically to base myself on one thing, if you thought I wouldn't ask that question, you were wrong. Two years ago, I was also at the hearing about the state's attorney's office report asking what happened to that criminal report I filed with a group of MPs a year ago. Now I repeat this question a little bit formulated, what about that criminal report I filed three years ago with the State's Attorney's Office? It's not 5 cc's of gravel, it's not a couple of million kunas, because you yourself said that the State's Attorney's office is covered with a bunch of applications that are simply petty, and that make it impossible for the State's attorney to now, with a limited number of people, limited resources, seriously address those issues that are crucial to the functioning of this society. That's why everything that's worth a few million kunas we put aside. I asked a question for one 300 million kuna, but even if it all ended up on that 300 million kuna, then they'd say it's a good thing it's 300 million kuna in these six, seven years, but that 300 million kuna has grown brother to 15 to 20 billion kuna, as some estimates say. I'm talking about the biggest infrastructure project in Croatia, where the biggest money was being poured in, and of course there was the most illegality then. I'm talking about road construction. And if it weren't for road construction, they could have been railways, as planned next in line, but thank God the economic crisis came, money was gone, and probably all that's opening today is the result of the lack of that money. There's a lot of mice, and the cheese's getting smaller. It means I'm going back to that famous, fast road of Zadar-Gazen. So it's all written, and all we have to do is check it out and see if it stands, reject the application, or verify it, because there's a HEP, we've also got trans-stations, we've got insurance, illegal money insurance, that 300 million kuna, we've got an agreed tender, we've got over-inflated prices. Of those three things, one can be controversial, but all three can't. But the best thing it was was just an introduction, if it was said that it was a certain, certain system error and such errors were possible, but it was just an overture to what was to come. So if it was said then that I was wrong, which was then with the following example, let's say Rijeka-Zagreb, the tenders set up, the companies that participated in the business divided each other over time, prices increased by several times, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, means we're spending credits that future generations will return, and nothing else. I know it's... I know the police took everything, all the paperwork, but the results are gone. [[You don't understand.]] And then we move on, then the Zagreb-Sisak highway, which is why three, four times the original price has been increased, which is why the course has changed, as has been changed, for example. To Zadar-Greath. Which is why the 752 m Macelj border road cost 156 million kuna, and it was also a great offer of 56 million kuna, which has been rejected for technical reasons. We all know that three people sat down and invited 15 other Croatian husbands for lamb and a bottle of wine, and agreed that business would continue. We also know what two consortiums are, senior and junior, how jobs were arranged. We know everything, but there's still no results. Is it because they're a little bigger mice, and because they're a little more numerous, and then that would lead to the collapse of the entire structure? Maybe it's phased out. And that's the same logic, so we'll say we'll leave it to the end. I don't know. But the fact is, I'm doing this again 15, up to 20, 10 to 15 billion kunas that have been sucked out of the state budget, which of the loans that we say once again we're going to have to pay back. And if that doesn't open now, the question is when will it open? Because when the skeletons start falling out of the closet, and we can't even open the closet, these people that work at the State's Attorney's Office will be insufficient. It's gonna take a few times more people to at least get that top of corruption sorted out. Because, as the minister complained, I think of Serbia's internal affairs after that action by Sabela. He says we entered the hotel where the slaughter was made, we solved 80% of the rooms, but the public remained dissatisfied because they asked and what about those corpses in those rooms at the top of the hotel. The same thing will happen to you. They didn't call you when God didn't know what was going on or when he didn't touch the top. But when the public gets serious, they'll be unhappy because it hasn't gotten rid of everything. And then since we can't get rid of everything, let's leave the fear of the tunnel, no matter what 40 million, 40 million, let's leave the abuse of using cars in Croatian highways, regardless of why the secretary of state left, because of the use of cars. We're talking a lot more serious here, about billions of kunas, not car abuse. And that danger, which I am now in principle saying, I hope to welcome in 2011 and see what is happening to this criminal application or to some even more serious things related to this criminal application, is, in principle, the danger of a failure of the entire system in Croatia if political responsibility is evened out with criminal responsibility. Because that's the problem with this society that we didn't know or know by yesterday what political responsibility was. And today, if you want to eliminate a political opponent, then he should at least miss one criminal report because that's the only proof that he's politically responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62532	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richemberg. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dinko Buric, he's gone, but he doesn't have the right to debate because he's being punished, taking away words by point. Boro Grubisic, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate. Ivo Sanader, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate. Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Attorney General. During this report, there was a lot of talk first of all about fighting corruption, so I want to talk to a different population, from a different aspect. First of all, by assessing and calling on you to assess and assess the impact of the main state attorney on the situation in the Croatian economy, i.e. on the growth and decline of Croatian gross social product. I fear that at this point because of such a strong fight against corruption, your impact on the situation in the economy is far greater than that of the prime minister or the economy minister because the blockade that has been created throughout the state administration, in state-owned companies, as a consequence of this struggle, is such that at this moment many government officials are afraid not to be subject to political crackdowns across their backs to seek the protection of only additional documentation, which slows down, of course, the launch of numerous projects that affect employment and the entire economic activity. In this regard, I also appeal to you to be extremely careful from your point of view when pressing charges unless there is enough solid evidence at this time or not to be the result of certain political pressures, thus affecting the encouragement of the state administration, which must do its job responsibly, knowingly, legally, correctly and without fear that the development of the Croatian economy will be hampered through their backs. In that sense, I see at this point your responsibility for what is happening in Croatia right now when it comes to economic development. But what I would like to draw particular attention to is the issue of conversion and privatisation. The fact that the Croatian Constitution provides for a provision on the non-depreciation of these crimes. But my question is, to what extent is it realistic in view of a whole series of other laws that have practically led to the fact that it was not mandatory under these laws to keep documentation, and therefore there is no real evidence at this time to carry out such processes. Which would ultimately mean that the constitutional provision, if that is the case, is really inconclusive. I'm particularly sensitive to the questions of the Homeland War crime. Namely, when it comes to this area, there is an exceptional sensitivity of the Croatian public, how that many crimes committed especially at the beginning of the Homeland War are not being processed, and in fact very often those crimes that have been triggered by the lighting of which is also encouraged by parliamentary speakers are being processed very quickly as was the case of a Karlovak family. So there he was after Mr. Pupovac's exposure very quickly launched criminal proceedings. Conversely, the slaughter of Croatian directors in Borovo village is not a procession. And the question remains why is that? Is it a lack of proof that it is hard for me to believe that the Croatian police are not for their colleagues, that enough evidence has been added to the massacre of their colleagues, even though I am not ruling out such a possibility, or that it is actually a political agreement that either these evidence is not being delivered or processing these crimes. Also, in the spring was a major protest of defense associations in Slatina, in the sub-level dessert area precisely because of the impunity of war criminals who committed the beginning of the Homeland War, so in '91. We remember Choilug, Chetekovac, Balinac, later something of Voćin and the terrible crimes that they committed so-called. The reservers of JNA in this area, which are also not processed, and which together creates one impression that after this Homeland War, the mass of crimes committed against the Croatian population are not processed until the crimes committed by members of Croatian troops are very spotlessly processed. And it remains, in fact, a very extremely problematic message for history, which is that in such conflicts as the last Homeland War and World War II, it was impunity for those who committed mass crimes against the Croatian population, while on the other hand all crimes were practically sanctioned. That's one bad message that can't stay like that. We are aware that when it comes to World War II, the course of time has done its part. But there is also a number of evidence of those responsible for the terrible crimes committed, because recently they have found sites of members of the Croatian homeland units from World War II. Therefore, in the end, I would like to conclude this exhibition with one need to send exactly from the State's Attorney's Office a message that there can be no unpunished crimes against Croats committed in the Homeland War, that they will be sanctioned, especially those who have most threatened the Croatian public. So, Borovo Selo, sub-level dessert area and other mass crimes. I also call for recognition of responsibility for the situation in the Croatian economy and for the movement of gross social product and activity of the Croatian economy which can have significant consequences precisely through the State's attorney's action because it must be recognised what, above all, has created a single insufficient recognition of the boundaries between business decisions, political decisions and criminal offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62534	Thank you. That's what ended the individual debate. Ultimately the state's chief attorney, the respected Mladen Bajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62535	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I must admit that today's debate and a good part of you who have made constructive proposals on the future work of the State's Attorney's Office that I have carefully written them down and I think we'll be using them for the rest of the year, as well as for the next period. That's what I'm sure of from both criminal and legal aspects of civil matters. Just a few things I'd look back on and about today's presentations. Here is the first presentation by MP Pusic, who has made an interesting analysis of the different state of affairs and access to the work of state attorneys in individual counties, or state attorneys. Not wanting to repeat now these numerical indicators that you have in the tables that are the contribution of the report there is indeed a difference in individual state lawyers for countless reasons. But the highest reasons lie in different environments, different police approaches, as well as citizens and other authorities. For example, Istra was often mentioned today. It has been known for years that Istria has been better told by the head of the population or the hundreds of thousands of inhabitants. This is not surprising, because analyses show that these criminal charges have been filed primarily because of the transition crime, because of the large number of tourists entering the country, because of the large number of tourists entering the country, because of the large number of these property crimes, as well as the easier forms of drug abuse. That's what the report says, so I can explain it in that direction. On the other hand, here is the example of the Chakotay. Today it is said why there are the smallest number of rejections in Čakovec. Because Čakovec is a peaceful environment in which there are relatively small numbers and population and criminal cases and the relationship between local police and the State's Attorney's office is almost and idyllic there, even so good that they may solve these criminal charges in one informal way and before criminal charges are filed, or they agree on what all these criminal charges must contain in order to make it more quality, more successful, etc. Maybe he'd be an example of other environments. On the other hand, the very fact that there is a different approach to decision-making in different state attorneys also shows what one of the parliamentary deputies was saying today. I think the representative of the HSS has seen it well in my report, which is that every state attorney is free to work and decide whatever anyone thinks about it. That's what the law tells him and orders him to do. Make sure there's no state lawyer in the world who's gonna force all 577 state lawyers to do what he wants. That's not gonna happen. On the other hand, we have insisted and received and received a project to inform the State Attorney's Office which is currently being implemented, that is, this very expensive software that has been used in a certain way from Austrian, German viewing examples of the system as we have worked out and this software will allow more equal access to state attorneys, the use of mutual databases and information they have, faster flow of information, and thus easier and faster decision-making. The question of rationalization. What does that mean? The same question was asked by Mrs Pusic. The State Attorney's Office considers me personally, and for one objective reason to eliminate these subjective reasons, which is that not every village can have a court or state attorney's office, because one prosecutor or one prosecutor, one deputy can't do as they're expected to do, they can't do any good, they can't perfect themselves, I can't even say I'm objective, because they would hurt their personal approach to this, but in any case they don't have the conditions for one proper, objective and quality work. On the other hand, the new CAP prevents the work of such state attorneys, i.e. courts, because now a larger, much larger number of people must be on this team that will work on these specific cases, a lot more judges must be deciding on the legality of the work of state lawyers, etc., and therefore there must be a grouping of these state attorneys, i.e. courts. We did one study somewhere on March 8, 2010, a comprehensive study that we sent to the Ministry of Justice, in which we said what we thought about it, and we said that, according to one radical concept, it should be up to 7.8 county attorneys in the country, or courts, that we should halve the number of municipal attorneys, about that attitude and the Ministry of Interior on police administrations, I think I know it from the exchange of information, and we also said that we needed at least a hundred new state attorneys, or deputies, one 60-acre of new business spaces, etc., and other technical equipment, so that I don't tell you all this together, it was done in that study in detail, and on two occasions delivered to the Ministry of Justice. Analysis and comparison of acquired and lost disputes in civil litigation. I mean, that's relatively easy to explain. Where the state of the defendant, there the state attorney's office is not the master of the situation, at least not as things have been set up so far, it should provide more resources in the budget so that the state's attorney's office can recognise the claims and do what the law allows him to do, but because of the lack of financial resources, it simply can't make settlements in court, it can't be agreed with prosecutors who are absolutely right, especially, it's in most cases in labour disputes, but things get better from year to year so that I think it's going relatively well. There have been further words today about the famous forgivenesss that have been exhibited in the media lately, and this is not at all the notion that exists in any law that has been passed in the Republic of Croatia, especially in those laws that we apply. But there's an institute called the partial immunity of witnesses, and I stress the witness, not the defendant, because no defendant can be forgiven. According to this, the state attorney's office has often tried to present themselves in the USKOK over the past period, nor has it shared them in the way that it has often tried to present itself in the media, and most importantly, even some of the prominent professors have come into the variant, so I have to be free to say, when they have commented on some blogs or some portals. What does partial witness immunity mean? This means that a man who testifies in a specific case, in which there is no evidence or information for him that he is the perpetrator of a crime, especially those brutal crimes that have also been written, rape and similar things, etc., if at some point, and this is a well-known thing that every witness is not obliged to answer those questions that would lead to the possibility of prosecution of himself or some of his loved ones. If he says e wait for the prosecutor I won't answer that question I could put myself in an awkward situation. Now, in that situation, there's a possibility that we can talk to that man and say okay, now tell us informally what you can tell us. And if he says so and if it fits into the possibility of using partial immunity witnesses, then it goes on. So far, in only three cases, or three, there are three persons, and in one case we have applied partial immunity of witnesses. That's what I'm responsible for, and that's the facts you need to know. However, there are also a whole range of other instruments that have been introduced by the new Criminal Procedure Act, and by applying, of course, experience from the Anglo-Saxon countries, primarily from the United States of America, the United Kingdom, as well as experiences that have been applied by the Swiss law, German, Austrian, etc., according to which our new CAP, which enables a better role of the State Law in communication and with the defendants since their recognition, settlements and so forth, etc., etc. So much for these forgivenesss. Mr Pupovac, or Pupovac, made certain remarks concerning that part of the report on the registration of state property, and certain technical errors related to our request for registration. Partly right, I have to admit. If you remember the deadline for registering state property was the end of 2010, that is, a year before, and we've re-longed those deadlines, there's former Minister Lovrin, so I remember negotiating in that direction how to save the deadlines. At that time, it was not possible to register or make demands for all assets of the Republic of Croatia, and there was a great danger of a major alienation of that property, and therefore it was a broad procedure, not to check at any time whether someone had in the meantime become the owner or long-term owner of that property of the Republic of Croatia, but these are things that will be dealt with technically very easily in the follow-up process so that there is no harm for this other party, and in particular there is no harm for the Republic of Croatia. Indeed, the Law on the Compensation of Indemnity as a result of terrorism, etc., as popularly referred to, what was also spoken by Pupovac, is also one serious thing, but it is a matter of the political will of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. you MPs and not first of all of the State's Attorney's Office. Several representatives spoke about amending the Constitution and converting and privatising, the capacities of the DORH, preparedness, etc., etc. Yeah, that's a really big problem. The Constitution abolished all possible limitation deadlines and allowed the work to be done on these items in the coming period. As soon as I was prepared to adopt the Constitution, I brought one mandatory instruction to the state attorneys, that they would no longer respect those terms of destruction, not to say archiving the file, which refers to conversion and privatisation in order to preserve as many documents as possible from that time and allow when the Constitution is passed, and now the Penal Code must be passed so that you can process it and you must know it, and you certainly know it better than I do, then there is a possibility that we can return to some of the cases that have been unable to prosecute them because of old age. Of course, it'll be a hard job, I agree with you, especially in that part of the part where that paperwork is already missing or destroyed. Fortunately, there is a bar in the Privatisation Fund, which I am convinced is in contact with the manager of the Privatisation Fund and a lot of documentation regarding conversion and privatisation, so it will be one exit or entry better said in these items, etc. In the meantime, I have asked all the state lawyers to make an analysis of all the cases they have, which could be some of the cases related to conversion and privatisation, to prepare themselves as soon as possible after the Parliament adopts, amend the Penal Code and extend the deadlines, i.e. to end the limitation deadlines in order to return to the game in these cases. We will closely monitor each of these cases and try, as someone here says, to push the county's attorneys to be as quick and efficient as possible in these cases. There were also talks about the professional ethics of state attorneys, i.e. different deputies in their work or conduct or failure. The National Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia established last year a supervisory department that should be the one to control the legality and professionality of the work of the state's attorneys. In accordance with the recommendations made by the European Commission, the role of the National Lawyer's Council has been strengthened, which plays an increased role in the control of the work of deputies and of the tight and other responsibility in relation to their work or work. Of course, where there are so many employees, or officials, there is always the possibility of some of them crossing the legal framework, which has been happening in the past years, and therefore we have carried out dozens of tight procedures and exclusions from the State's Attorney's system. Data leaks – data leaks are the subject of the debate of a few parliamentary representatives, but this is one of the biggest damage suffered by the State's Attorney's Office, especially in USKOK cases for several reasons. First of all, we're getting information that shouldn't come out first, let's be nice now, even though it's not my priority to protect those who are in the process. I have to admit it's like that, but it's okay, you should put it first. But more important to us is that it bothers us because of possible breakthroughs in the future criminal procedure because then vanca knows what we are doing, and on the other hand, witnesses already know what is going on and can adapt their testimony to what they read in the newspaper. However, I must tell you that a lot of what is written in the paper is not true. It's the only thing that saves us from all that. On several occasions, we have announced on our websites that this information is not accurate and that we are not behind them. On the other hand, we put the police on several occasions asking for criminal research, etc. You need to keep an eye on who's in a position to have that information. According to the USKOK Act, according to the Code of Criminal Procedure in this previous procedure, i.e. the investigation procedure or the investigation procedure, the state lawyers, or the deputy directors, are involved, the witnesses participate and the defenders participate. So a relatively wide circle of people is inside, and that's why they occasionally come up with such information that comes out. Unfortunately, there is no legal solution to the problem so that the objective fact that someone writes or hears a word about it is some kind of offence, or criminal act, etc. So the problem of proving who gave up the secret is the problem that's been spinning in these areas for a long time and isn't just about these last few years. Representative Ostojic asked what happened to the criminal charges of the police, i.e. the MUP? Since almost 41% of criminal charges have been dropped,... police criminal charges have been significantly reduced. It is about 20% somewhere, so half smaller, but it is interesting that it varies from 12% in Čakovec to 40% in Dubrovnik. So, we also show different approaches to individual police administrations, but this is a matter of great analysis that we are now preparing right now in the preparation of a joint meeting with the Police Directorate on this subject between all police administrations and county state attorneys in order to just try to eliminate all these problems that arise in the work. Representative Leko asked a question that I was already trying to answer, why these shifts last year and a half or two years anyway. Because according to the state's attorney's position, only because a new CAP has been adopted. I further argue that, in part, he would also lean on the question or rather the debate of Mr. Ostojić here because simply the state attorneys who are conducting the investigation have the possibility that the maximum motivation to clear up the situation of the case work faster and more effectively and that the examination of those witnesses would, of course, be the defendants, or the suspect, be so as to learn as much as possible the facts that were relevant to their decision-making were for the further proceedings of the indictment, whether or not to suspend the proceedings, etc. Of course, I'm not talking about the political frameworks and all the things that were heard about here in the Croatian Parliament, but it's not about me, but first of all for you, either with one or the other or middle policy options. I will not speak of specific subjects that are indisputable, but I must say that often, especially in economic matters, I would be the happiest to make decisions in these cases immediately. But making a decision in a criminal case, especially if all things are not at the beginning of the clean is very difficult. To make a solution to the rejection where we haven't all checked the facts is extremely dangerous for the state's attorney and it is subject to justified criticism and applicant applications, but on the other hand I know that the applicant also suffers because of what has been extended for a long time, especially if it is media-exposed cases where these or those things that are now not directly in the State's Attorney's office's custody, but they have consequences for his work, let's be realistic. Because we are exposed to pressures because of the fact that decisions are not made in these cases, and then one or the other or the third party now depends on how many sides there are in all proceedings from its position to present their views again on our backs. But we will try and try through all possible institutions to get information as soon as possible to make the right decisions. The state attorney's office, regardless of what the Serbian representative was talking about indirectly, may indirectly call on us to have an unwarranted impact on the state of the economy, blockades, etc. But that's because those people who need to make those decisions are hiding from someone else's back in a particular case behind the State's Attorney's Office, because criminal proceedings have nothing to do with their work and decision-making, everyone is responsible for their part of the job. We do not give a blessing and an opinion on economic decisions, God forbid, whether in economic operators or in state bodies. The State's Attorney's Office only gives an opinion on real estate. And something else about the marine good. That's all we're talking about is the civil part of the job. The Homeland War crime, also a representative of the Serbs. We talked on several occasions about the Law of General Forgiveness, or the Law of Forgiveness, because three were adopted at the same time in '91. And in the sixth and in the meantime one changed, he abolized crimes, but not war crimes, but he abolized the crimes of armed rebellion in the broad sense of the word, and in relation to those crimes, there are no more returns, I'm talking about these crimes. As for perception that the State's Attorney's office is persecuting one or the other. And there are different views depending on what position you're talking from, but it's just not true. We at the State's Attorney's Office don't do records or analysis of whether a Croat, a Serb, an Eskimo, whatever you want, I don't think I'm making fun of myself, but I'm just talking from that position. The only records we have in this direction are whether he is a member of the Croatian Armed Forces or some other militia unit, if this is seen from the records or database we have there. And I think the situation and the numerical indicators that talk about it are very different. On the other hand, someone mentioned one subject today, I will not tell him the name for principled reasons, but also war crimes, but they must take care of another fact that some of these cases have been taken over by the Hague court and that these cases had to be handled in the first phase of the case taken by The Hague either under the obligation of the Republic of Croatia or the State Attorney's Office. I hope I've answered less about all the questions. If I forgot any of them, then my apology, but it wasn't on purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62536	I'd like to thank the attorney general. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62537	We move to the 2009 State's Attorney's Office report. National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The 2009 report on the work of state lawyers is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 82 votes to 37 abstentions and 3 against. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has proposed to the Croatian Assembly another conclusion, which reads: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with providing in the 2011 State Budget the necessary resources for the human and material strengthening of the state's attorneys of the Republic of Croatia and the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime in order to fulfil their obligations under the amendments to the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. The resources are provided for in the budget and it is unconditional to vote on this conclusion. Is that something the government wants to say about that? You don't have to. I think the funds were provided, and the budget was made. So here's the Human Rights Committee. Here you go, Mr Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62538	You should've put it to a vote before easy. But there are some funds for more this year according to various items for the state's attorney's office, but still too little. I would ask that these matters be addressed when it comes to the state's attorney's office and when it comes to the fight against corruption to take more care of the views of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62539	Are you withdrawing this proposal's conclusion, because it's already been absorbed, I think. So withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62540	Today we are going to do another point, which is - Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2010 the Government submitted this report on the basis of Articles 108 and 109. Budget law. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So very briefly, several technical data and generally public finance statistics, from the first six months. I think that we have already discussed this subject several times in this House, of course most during the debate on budget rebalancing for 2010 and you know for yourself that this is exactly the execution, these six good parts and any basis for the calculation itself, that is, making that rebalancing. As for this and, of course, the legal obligation to report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the income, expenditure side of the budget in the first 6 months, I will actually read a few figures. Thus, the total revenue of the state budget in the first half of 2010 amounted to €52 billion, which is one and a half percent less compared to the same period in 2009. In this respect, it should be said that tax revenues are made at an amount of €29.2 billion, which records an annual growth of 4.1% and is primarily due to certain changes in the system of the tax system in mid-2009, but also to part of good collection, i.e. the growth of excise duties. As regards value added tax revenues, it was achieved in the first 6 months of 17.4 billion, which is a 1.7% increase compared to the same period of the previous year, of course it should be noted that we have that so-called. Based on the fact that in the second half of 2009, since the second half of 2009, the standard basic rate of value added tax has been increased since the second half of 2009, to 23. As for excise income, in the first half of the year it amounts to 4.8 billion kuna, and the annual increase of 41.7%, however, in the very explanation of the implementation of the budget in the first 6 months, we have mentioned that there is one methodological, methodological note, so since 2010 the fees for roads that have been managed in the previous years under the incomes of non-financial assets, are now accountingly actually carried out under excise duties, which is essentially so we have, among other things, such a high rate of growth. However, it should also be said that during the right half of the year, excise duties on tobacco products, tobacco, and tobacco products, and excise duties on alcohol have also seen growth. As for income from profit tax, this income of 3.7 billion in the first 6 months and, in fact, at an annual level, one of those tax forms which, of course, according to the overall economic activity, recorded the biggest decline, which is a 30.7% reduction. As regards revenue from the contribution, they were reached in the first 6 months of 18.9 billion, which is a reduction of 5% compared to the same period of the previous year. As for the expenditure side of the budget, the total cost execution in the first half of 2010 was 59.7 billion kuna, compared to the planned funds, originally planned for 121.4 billion 49% of the execution. In this regard, of course, it should be said that certain expenditures were carried out in the first 6 months, compared to the original plan in which we did this execution, and by the basis that you have in front of you in the tables and figures, in some groups of expenditure we had the execution and over 50%, that is, above all, in financial expenditures, these are primarily interest expenditures, but also in the cost of subsidies, given that the increased dynamics in the first 6 months, the result, first of all, of course high execution in the positions of subsidies of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. As regards the expenditure on employees, they were made in total of 11 billion kuna, which is 48.8% of the plan already mentioned above, and I think it should be said that the two basic measures of the Government which have affected this exercise are, and I would say, for the first 6 months, keeping this expenditure category under control, and that is, above all, the decision to reduce the base for the wage calculation and the same decision, that is, the government's conclusion on the ban on new employment, of course, except for the employment of civil servants necessary for the implementation of the obligations made towards the European Union. As for fees for citizens and households, they were made in the amount of 31.9 billion kuna. Of course, of this item, the maximum amount of pensions and pension incomes made totalling 17,5 billion kuna. Just one short line with the revenue side of the budget. In the same first six months, the total contribution to pension insurance is, so that first pillar is raised with 9.4 billion kuna, which when compared to the total pension expenditure in the first 6 months, you actually have a direct deficit of 8.1 billion kuna. Therefore, from other sources of income it was necessary to draw this difference. As for the expenditure on non-financial assets, these were made in the first half of the period of HRK 565.6 million, i.e. the total original plan of only a quarter of the planned funds. As for the overall result, the difference between income and expenditure total government budget deficit in the first half of 2010 was 7.7 billion kuna. Since outside the budget users were in a mild surplus as were the local self-government which was approximately on a balanced budget, we have a total deficit of the general government in the first six months of 7.5 billion kuna translated into terms of the percentage of the gross domestic product is 2.3%. Here's so much for the introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62542	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Mrs. Zgrebec? No, I don't. A fellow Maric? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In the meantime, it was also a rebalancing of the state budget and it is indeed a technical report. The question is at all the need to discuss a half-yearly report. But I would point out that the HDZ Club supports this half-yearly report on the implementation of the national budget for the first half of 2010 which took place under special and extremely demanding economic conditions. In fact, the decline in gross domestic product was 2 and a half percent, and the most difficult ones felt in the decline in investments of as much as 14%. Industrial production dropped by 2%, by slightly more than 5%. Also, the number of unemployed increased by 38% or 15 whole, by 38693 or 15.7%. Exports also resulted in a negative trend and reacted to the economic crisis, so that goods exports decreased by 7.7%. It is apparent from fiscal indicators that total revenues were achieved in the first six months by 1 and a half percent compared to the same period in 2009, and that tax revenues increased by 4.1% and this was primarily introduced, thanks to the introduction of new excise duties and also tax changes. The value added tax revenue was also increased by 17.4 billion and was partly due to an increase in the tax rate from 22% to 23%, and partly due to an up-to-date VAT collection. Excise revenues amounted to 4.8 billion kuna and account for an increase of 41.7%. It is evident here that as the secretary of state mentioned a special tax on oil derivatives, there is an increase of 201%) but this is the consequence of a different booking. Namely, road charges are now recorded in the position of excise duties on oil derivatives, not more on property revenues. That's why the income from the assets fell from the position of 2 billion and 712 million to the first six months of this year's billion and 553 million kuna. As for expenditure, the total expenditure was 49.1%. And it is good that most of the positions on the spending side are below 50% for the first half of 2010 and these are encouraging data. Only two positions go 50%. These are subsidies and financial expenses. The total deficit in the state budget is 7.7 billion kuna and the total shortfall in the consolidated general government for the first half of 2000 is 2.3% of GDP. Whenever there is talk of either the state budget or the rebalancing or the implementation of the state budget, we cannot possibly pass without mentioning the International Monetary Fund and many are not calling for the arrival of the International Monetary Fund, so this is an opportunity to say something about it. Unfortunately, the IMF issue in Croatia has become an instrument of political fight against the government of the Republic of Croatia, not a subject of serious economic debate. And that's the problem. The International Monetary Fund has shown experience over the past 20 years primarily using shock therapy that has not proved successful in Croatian frameworks and which cannot be effective in our specific conditions. This shock therapy involves, first of all, reducing pensions, social benefits, reducing wages. And Croatia actually has a major and structural problem, an insufficient number of employees compared to the overall active working population. And such shock therapy, such a reduction in wages, a reduction in pensions, a reduction in social benefits cannot possibly contribute to new employees in Croatia. On the contrary, a reduction in all these positions would contribute to a reduction in demand overall, while a reduction in demand is affecting a reduction in total aggregated supply, and a reduction in the overall supply would ultimately lead to a decrease in production in the long term, and a decrease in production would lead to a lower number of jobs. So much for whether at this point the IMF can help Croatia and new jobs and increase production and GDP. And those who think when they come to power that they should call on the IMF that is a confirmation of their own incompetence that they are unable to deal alone with the problems of economic and economic in the Republic of Croatia but rather that someone should do so on the side instead. The HDZ Club supports this mid-term report on the implementation of the 2010 State budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62544	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. A colleague, Gordan Maras, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Although it has already been said that this half-yearly report has already been discussed in some way since we had a budget rebalance, we have to say some important facts and therefore we will not support this report and which is why we think that such planning would have led the government's poor attitude towards public finances to this catastrophic economic situation that we have in Croatia today. However, here is a colleague, Maric, who said a few sentences about the IMF, the fact is that even the relevant experts, and the Governor of Rohatinski, regret that the IMF is not already in Croatia, not because we need someone to give advice and help us do what we should do but because we ourselves have done nothing to bring things into those frameworks that Croatia can bear and to turn the negative trends that Croatia currently has on the part. Let me remind you of some of these seven quarters are a continuous decline in GDP, this year will end and probably end with a minus of 2 and some percent. We're one of the few countries that hasn't recovered this year. No one can say that planning public finances didn't contribute. We have now lost all possible excuses about imported crises, that the world economy has affected that Croatia is not recovering because others are recovering, others have positive trends. And even inconclusive sounds like a claim that we got into a crisis later on, and we're going to go out later, given that in 2009, we ended up about a slightly smaller minus 6%. So, very poor economic indicators, the failure to recover the Croatian economy, a large number of unemployed at the moment 307 thousand are all a balance sheet of unfortunately poor public finances management. As they were planned and managed to speak enough and the announcements of Minister Shuker from last year, about 9.10 months, when he said we would have a deficit of 2.2% in the state budget. We just heard the secretary of state say he was somewhere around here, but unfortunately in the first six months. The other six months he'll be incomparably bigger. And in the end, I will end up over 4%, but when certain guarantees are added, and those commitments that the state has not included in the budget, analysts and international institutions say the deficit is over 6%. What can be seen from the incomes of business and the revenues of the state budget in the first six months I would narrow down to one conclusion. We see an increase in VAT tax revenues and certain tax reforms that we have made paid by Croatian citizens and which ultimately, by abolishing the crisis tax of haraks in the 11th month of this year, some less than 3 billion kunas financed this high public spending inauguration by HDZ. And by doing so, these tax revenues that have grown directly affected these tax subversives. I would say that this tax policy has had a predictive effect on the whole situation in Croatia and because we have raised the VAT rate, which we have introduced crisis taxes, we have reduced consumption, we have led the economy to fall. I said how much, almost 6% last year, income from profit tax is lower by 30.7%, property tax 20.7%, income tax 13.8% because economic activity fell. And whoever doesn't see it or doesn't really understand it really understands very little. Other countries went to their public finances to help the economy, had a deficit and deficit as such would not be a problem if the structure were different, if we had gone to stimulate consumption, if we had helped the economy and had recorded a positive trend in GDP growth this year. But we didn't do it. Of course, there are other things that have fallen. It contributes 5%, and this is one of the more significant revenues due to the downturn in employment. On the other hand, expenditure unfortunately increased at a pace planned by around 49.1% of expenditure was achieved in the first 6 months and there was a deficit of 7.5 billion kuna and 89%, respectively, scheduled for 2010. So much for planning, so much for what awaits us and so much for how we prepared public finances for the crisis in 2009 and 2010. We have proposals for a budget that we do not rebalance in small amounts or due to unforeseen circumstances. These are the amounts that we rebalance are measured in billions of kuna, the deficit that we planned 8.6% of the billion kuna is almost double that will happen this year. And the question is what happens at the end of the budget at the end of the year, and what will be the result and how will we discuss the implementation of the budget when it comes here on the Parliament's agenda. I'm saying all this because we have no illusion that HDZ and coalition partners have the strength to take a positive step next year. No matter how much Croatia sinks and owes itself more and more. You will also see in this report that the increase in expenditure we paid for interest is greater than the year before. This year is likely to be another billion kuna more than it was the previous year, and Croatia is the only solution that HDZ finds is that Croatia owes 15 billion kunas each year that go back in the wrong direction and give no result. The public debt of the state at the end of June was €122 billion, which is 37% of the estimated GDP if it is added to the HBOR debt and other potential liabilities and state guarantees, the debt was as much as 53.5% of GDP at the end of June. This is a serious amount which is not the end, because we have not yet included the government's borrowing on the foreign market of $1.25 billion that was realised in July. So we are approaching the public debt rate of 60% and that is what HDZ and coalition partners leave to future generations and future governments, not knowing how to deal with the situation in which Croatia has found itself. We must, if we use the deficit and borrow the state, also have the economic result seen from that deficit, or what the money has gone to. And the stories of the announced economic recovery next year are ridiculous to me. He won't be insignificant, he won't be in any way. If there's stagnation, if we're about 0%, I think we'll do fine. All these measures are exclusively aimed at maintaining power for another year, and not at what Croatia needs, which is to make a realistic analysis of what public money is spent and to change the structure and consumption. And that's why it's a little weird to hear when the HDZ club only analyzes, analyzes whether or not someone called the IMF. Unfortunately, as the situation in Croatia is now going and the HDZ is leading the finances, the IMF's solution is not and impossible. Unfortunately, I'm saying that we're not better off dealing with the situation we've been in. I say the SDP will not support this report because we disagree with this way of managing public finances. A new budget for 2011 is likely to be proposed tomorrow. Probably another 15 billion deficits, probably more debts, probably another increase in public debt and probably borrowing future generations, which, as we see, the finance minister usually takes what 10 years of bond issue to 10 years, is likely to pay for who knows which government after two, three choices that pass. So responsible is not being run by public finances and, of course, we can't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62546	Next comes the debate on behalf of the HNS club, HSU Zlatko Koračević. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The other clubs didn't sign up. We're moving on to an individual debate. And here's my first colleague, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62547	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If the state budget is viewed through two aspects, one is that it is a picture or a reflection of the economy, that is, the economic activity of one country and another aspect that it is redistribution of part of the social product, then by observing exactly the state budget and this achievement within 6 months we can actually say that we are recording a lot of illogicalness or we would say that it is not guided by the logic of good governance. In fact, we've had a decline in GDP for two years. Last year 5.8% of the first 6 months 2.5%. This would lead to one logic of good governance, and we should have maximum rationalised the expenditure from the state budget. Is that how we do it, we depend on which side we look at it or on which side we discuss it? It has been said here countless times that our economic problems stem from our structure and economic policy. And if they weren't just a reflection of the economic or financial crisis, that's exactly what they're actually confirming right now. Because countries in our environment have an economic growth of over 3%. And Croatia in the first 6 months minus 2.5%. There's no indication it'll be better in the second term. It's a little strange that at the 11th month, we don't even have our first growth assessment for the third quarter. There's probably some sort of assessment, but it's not good, so the bad news doesn't have to be released early. It is already said here that tax revenues are actually the result of a higher VAT rate, so it is higher by one index point than it was a year earlier, higher excise duties, increased taxes or a special tax on wages and pensions above a certain level. So, if it hadn't been for that, the question is what would have happened to the 2010 budget revenues. The 8 billion kuna deficit is at the level planned for the whole year. So there's one bad plan here. I am concerned about the statement by the Prime Minister that it is difficult for Croatia to plan several months in advance, let alone a year. It is actually one statement that speaks of the very questionable expertise of people who are planning a state budget. There's no problem with the deficit if he's going into development. Today it is said that England has 11% deficit or plans 11% deficit. But the entire deficit goes towards economic development, so they go as economic measures. Unfortunately, our deficit, which some say will be 15 billion, some say it will be 20 billion at the end of the year, will actually end up covering expenditure. And when said here about the IMF on one side as some kind of bauk, on the other hand as some kind of rescue for Croatia, it's probably neither. It is certain that in Croatia, we can withdraw our own measures to be dictated by the International Monetary Fund. However, as soon as you say something that should be reviewed in the budget, then the government will tell us what you want. That's what they say to us. That's what they say to Governor Rohatinski recently. Which you want to cut wages, pensions, social benefits. But which one does he pay? I'll talk about it later. The salaries financed from the state budget, and the state budget is filled with those whose salaries have already been reduced or who have lost their jobs should be charged. Well, pensions are frozen this year. So they are already according to that logic that does not apply the law reduced. They were also reduced to those who paid special taxes on pensions. Social benefits. When you have 15, 20 billion to cover the deficit that you cover because you have no income, you cover and the debts that sooner or later become questionable and such expenditures should be the last expenditure to be reduced. And just a few words about economic recovery measures. At every cabinet session, we see that this is the first or zero point as they come true. But the question is what are the effects of such measures. Here, recent business results have been published in six months. That data doesn't give you any optimism. Look, the total revenue dropped by 7.3%. Total expenditure dropped by 5.2%. So they grow again faster than income. The gross profit of entrepreneurs who are obliged to give semi-annual results is 46.5% or 5.8 billion. Count on 5.8 billion should pay the tax by 20%. It's already in the first six months of next year less tax for a billion kuna. Investments over 34% or 18 billion kuna are less in the first six months. Three percent of the employees also fell. It's a real sector or 26281 less. The net wage also fell. See the published average salary in Croatia over 5000 kuna, in this real sector 4503 kuna or 2.1%. The total number of employees is lower by 69400. That's how much we have less taxes, contributions, all the other donations. It's so much less and purchasing power because these people are either at the Employment Service or they have no income at all. The number of unemployed is up by 32300. Every 100 employees get 102 pensioners and unemployed. Let's see what happens to liquidity. In August, 30764 legal entities were blocked with 26 billion kuna. There are 40,000 employees working there. At the same time, 40,000 craftsmen with them are 25,000 employees with 5.8 billion. It is the 32 billion kuna of blocked funds or unpaid funds, covering 105,000 employees. So they don't get paid on a regular basis, and that's a budget deficit. However, what concerns us and what we do not have an answer to. Seven months in a row, unsettled liabilities grow. That's the result of these blockades. For taxes and contributions 12.7 billion kuna. The question arises why companies are allowed not to pay five, six, seven months, a year, two years. We heard there were no taxes and contributions paid in Kamenski for two years. If the second and third months do not respond, then it comes to the situation that this is more of a non-payment claim, a non-payment claim for funds and a government budget on the one hand, and on the other hand, such a company that does not pay or pay payments, does not pay liabilities, only makes a mess in the liquidity system. And if the IRS is now going to go more massively to block such companies will come to a general chaos in payment traffic, in fact there will be a collapse of the largest number of companies. I think we need to talk about this seriously. These are not criticisms for criticism, these are criticisms to find a common way out of these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62548	Thank you. It's my colleague Ivo Jelusic's turn. Here's my colleague Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62549	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Here we are at the beginning of 11 months, already in half 11 months we are discussing the implementation of the budget for the past six months even though he sees it from the documents sent to the Parliament in early September. But here, two months later, we finally have a debate in the Parliament, and I'm sure we probably wouldn't be discussing it today if it wasn't possible for us to discuss the budget for the next year soon, so it wouldn't be nice to bring the budget for next year without adopting a report for the first six months of this year. Every time a budget is discussed, it says so what's a lot to say about what's income, income, what's spent. No need to cry for spilled milk. However, there is a need to say, and if nothing else is to say that tomorrow when we bring the budget, we know why the milk is spilled so that we don't spill it again. All indicators of the economic situation in Croatia show that the situation is bad, but the budget does not see it, i.e. it does not want to be recognised, do not want to reduce expenditure. The planned revenue in the first six months was achieved with 51 rounding the score 8 billion, which is 46% of the total at the state level. So, it's not half, half the revenue from the planned one hasn't been made. On the other hand, expenditures have been made in planned amounts, almost half of what was planned. The result is the deficit in the first six months of 7.6 billion, which is almost the entire planned deficit for the whole year that was planned for 8.6 billion. So almost 90% of the deficit has already been spent under quotes in the first six months. So we have a situation where we don't have adequate or positive rates of economic growth, we have growing unemployment, we have reduced consumption, and expenditure in the budget doesn't decrease. The gross social product in the first quarter of this year to which this is also seen, this observed period that we are discussing for the budget was less than two-and-a-half percent. Industrial production fell in all months in the first term. We also have a slight drop in retail trade in all the months of the first six months of this year. And normally, in such a situation that revenue in the budget cannot be realised as planned. If there is no consumption, there is no VAT or VAT tax revenue. In particular, we see that the decline in tax revenues is relative to the plan of profit tax because the economy is in a difficult situation. Therefore, we see that the revenues were made when the budget was made very optimistic as if they had absorbed absolutely from what is really happening in the economy and in the population. The only thing bigger than that, when it comes to income compared to last year, to the same period since 2009 is the increase in tax revenues. So, taxes are higher. This tax revenue is also not because the economy is stronger or that the population has a better standard and more spending than because VAT rates have been increased from 22% to 23% and because it has been introduced. So, on the one hand, we have an impoverished economy and citizens, but on the other hand, the tax press is getting even stronger. So, but also planned, but also achieved tax revenues that are higher by almost 5%, 4.1% than in the same period of the same year are not sufficient in relation to, they are not in line with the planned budget because they are planned to be even higher. Therefore, it would be necessary to peel the economy and population further, but could not. The question is whether this is the goal, is this the government's economic policy, is that the goal of the fiscal policy that this government is implementing in this way? So that the base which is smaller does not take into account that it is smaller, neither in the population nor in the economy, but that tax rates are increasing. Well, no matter how many in Croatia, as the economy, as it is for the citizens, the budget has to be. That's what I'm saying because I see that expenditures don't go down, so expenditures are done as if nothing is happening in the economy or in the population. It's obvious that the budget was wrongly drawn, and that's why the SDP was against him, and now we're seeing that we were right when we were against this kind of budget because it couldn't be realised as such, the income is gone, it's going into extra debt, and we're going to have a deficit most likely over 14 billion this year. And that's what happened. The rebalance was supposed to work long before it was seen after the first quarter of what the situation was like and reduce the expenditure, it didn't happen, but here we are soon, I hope for a few days, we have a budget for next year, and I hope that everything I've been saying will be taken care of. It is spilled milk, but let's not make the same mistakes so that milk is spilled again next year and that we continue to sink even deeper next year, both economically and the standard of citizens in Croatia. I hope that in a few days when we discuss the budget for next year we will be in something different tone, not like this. Therefore, from what I said, obviously that the budget was not well planned, that it could not even be realised because it was not in line with what was expected because it was absorbed by the economic situation and by the population standards. And certainly as such, if as such as this was a six-month execution if there were another six months, there would be an even worse situation when we consider budgeting for this year. With that in mind, I suggest that those who can, and therefore ruling, be much more careful when adopting a new budget, be much more rational and that the budget is not abstract than the reality of our economy in which we live and the environment in which both the population and the economy are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62550	Thank you. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague of MPs Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62551	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's representative Jelusic said the budget was optimistic and said the revenues were achieved with 46.1% of expenditures with 49.1% thinking it was optimistic and not realistic. I would say that when you analyse the implementation first to six then every year it is almost in all budgets below 50%, mostly below 50% because by the end of the year it is then realized 100%. Normally, because it's not everything yet, I'd say, in function. So here's an example of this is in this report we have that the tourist season was undermining, that there weren't enough foreign tourists and domestics, so. And we know after six months we know what the results of the tourist season are. So, something that, this year, was really the best tourist season in Croatia. So this is one base, one, we can analyze to see how it will happen by the end of the year, but with these indicators 46.1% and 49.1%, respectively, we can be satisfied and we can't say that there's something about the government that wasn't real in the projection of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62552	Thank you. In addition, distinguished counterpart Dragan Kovacevic is on his way. Here you go, my colleague. ... You're giving up? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. Ante? He's gone. Dear fellow MP Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62553	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. By discussing the implementation of the 6 months budget this year, we always ask ourselves what was the objective of the budget and is part of these objectives achieved? So I will remind you that the government's economic programme was to preserve macroeconomic stability, create conditions for recovery and stable economic growth. Growth, labour market stability, implementation of an active employment policy and a constant increase in both competitiveness and export power of the Croatian economy. These are the fundamental objectives of the government's programme, which we should have realised with the 2010 budget. Let's remember when setting up and certain macroeconomic sizes in the state budget programme, we went optimistic that 2010 would be the year of recovery, economic growth of about 2%, and I would say the state deficit is also low, meaning a lot of optimistic forecasts, which were obviously unreal. So we're not actually going towards budget savings, we're not going through budget revenues to tax-deliver the businessmen, we're not going to go to some kind of investment and incentives for employment, nor to raise investment activity. All of this because here in the Parliament we accepted a government proposal that optimistically spoke that even without our necessary measures, the situation in the Croatian economy would be stable. Today, we can discuss numbers here, talk about figures, so that I don't speak it or statistics because the month ahead, the month back, I will still give relevant data to the Croatian National Bank and Mr Rohatinski who makes estimates for this year, who must be very worried about us, because it is one of the most realistic assessments. He estimates the drop will be 1.9%. And it's no wonder we've had an uninterrupted decline in economic activity in the Republic of Croatia for six months. What concerns the decline this year is the number of employees of 4.9%. Masses pay 6.1%, fewer workers, lower wages. An investment of 11.7%. Even predicts what is a little different than in this rebalancing process that we adopted, which is a deficit at nearly 22.7 billion kuna, which is simply huge, because of course the financing of Croatian highways is also being added. That these are about data that we must be very concerned about, because they are completely different from the objectives of economic policy set out. What is evident is that we have macroeconomic instability, that we have an uncontrollable fall even longer, that we do not influence the halting of economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, that we have a fall of standards, that we have a worrying growth of the unemployed, that we have a growing problem of the social power of Croatian citizens. And in this year, we went with the burden of citizens both with VAT and with the continuation of the crisis tax passed in the summer of last year. These are all worrying data because they are contrary to the government's objectives. But there's something else important. We also have what is important at stake in the stability of foreign relations. What is worrying Rohatinski said was that at one point the state had a problem with the moratorium paying off external debt. We weren't able to pay off the foreign debt. Had it not been for special interventions by the National Bank, which then allowed business banks to turn around and help the finance minister to pay off debts and interest or to refinance, it doesn't matter what form, they would have problems. Therefore, we have entered a dangerous zone. It's not like we're taking loans anymore, that we're paying in the public sector, but also paying off or refinanceing our debts, we just can't think without the intervention of the domestic banking system. This is then the reason why monetary policy has changed completely, is that the results of fiscal policy have also threatened the regularity of interest and debt payments. And, of course, for the first time, we're talking about deficits, enormous deficits that are worrying about precisely why we haven't spent enough to stop the economic downturn, let's stop, I'd say economic activities that are increasingly blocked from day to day. And, of course, the liquidity problem that we keep talking about here. Liquidity that businessmen feel but have no protection in billing their claims. I don't want to talk about it. For 2.5 years, the SDP has been imposing a topic to discuss liquidity. 31 billion unpaid bills are not worrying about the government that is proposing such a document. It's not worrying. And the businessmen also understand the entrepreneurs, and especially the craftsmen close their turns from day to day. They don't want to deal with frustration anymore. Yeah, that's true. And what we're all dealing with are the debts of businessmen to the state, mostly according to contributions that are impossible to happen. It's something that shouldn't have happened, not paying off. And that's why then and problems in the pension system that's then the reason for the problem in the health system and the financing of the health system. Yes, 12.5 billion unpaid tax revenues and contributions are evident. And how many total unscheduled debts, as the ministry approved a year-long delay in non-payment payments. Someone's saying that it's also approaching the figures of over 25 billion. With this indifference evil where people are closing down economic activities, they stop dealing with them, it's evident that the amount of 12.5 billion is not so high compared to what we expect that a huge number of those who have had prolonged obligations will probably be in an inability to pay regularly. And that amount will keep climbing. How do you solve these problems? Today, we do not want to talk about how we will have to find models to solve companies, craftsmen who are liable to the Croatian State for tax and trade. Have you thought about what the HUPs from Split are telling you? They're looking for responsibility for those who invented models A, B and C because they're inconclusive. Those are their messages. Does this mean that we had to review the models because we see that they didn't give the efficiency we wanted and that we needed to supplement them because we're not going to be able to charge 20 billion so far unpaid claims, which are obviously the problem again tomorrow and again some new model to find a relationship and the possibility that jobs don't close down economic activity. So, gentlemen, this is a debate on the budget not five percent up or down, but on what this act is for us. To think about how to resolve our obligations, but also how to not harm the economy. Obviously, with the six-month report and the seriousness of preparing this document, we certainly won't be able to resolve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62554	Thank you, fellow Linic. An important colleague, Dragan Kovacevic, came forward to correct the allegations. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62555	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Linic. Namely, when he said the foreign debt payment was called into question regardless of what he called for Mr Rohatinski. Namely, the payment of the foreign debt has not been made. Thank God the Republic of Croatia regularly serves all its external obligations, neatly service all its budget obligations from social rights, pensions, salaries, etc. Therefore, I have a feeling that there are actually arguments to call the IMF, because it comes when the state cannot reconcile those obligations. However, the IMF is not the solution for us. It would certainly affect stopping investment and going into non-selective sexting of social rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62556	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the applications for the hearing. The Proposer has no need for final address. Then I'm left with this point to conclude. We'll vote when the conditions are met as usual. And for today, or tonight, we haven't prepared a further course of debate, but we'll continue tomorrow at 9.30. And the agenda item will be on the agenda, item four of the Annual Work Report of the 2009 Competition Protection Agency. Have a nice evening, and I'm closing the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-10-0.u62557	We are going to propose a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2010. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am giving the Budget Act to vote on the adoption of a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2010. Let's please get involved and vote on the report's proposal. The result? On the basis of Article 109, we have brought a half-yearly report on the implementation of the state budget to most votes, 83 votes to, 1 abstention and 39 against. In accordance with Article 111 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Budget Act the first Decision on granting consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters financial plan for the first half of 2010. Please, let's get involved and vote. The decision to give consent to... this report was made by most votes, 80 votes to, 3 abstentions and 27 against. I am giving the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of Croatian Roads' financial plans for the first half of 2010. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This decision to give consent to the six-year-old report was made by the majority of votes, 82 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 34 against. I am giving the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State Deposit Insurance Agency's financial plan and the resolution of banks for the first half of 2010. Let's please get involved and vote on granting consent. The result? This decision to give consent was accepted by most votes, 81 votes for, 5 abstentions and 26 against. I am giving the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Privatisation Fund's financial plan for the first half of 2010. Please include and vote on the proposed decision on granting consent. The result? We've made this decision by majority vote, 81 votes for, no abstentions and 34 against. I am giving the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Environmental Protection Fund's financial plan and energy efficiency for the first half of 2010. Let's please get involved and vote on a decision to give consent. The result? We've made this decision by majority vote, 83 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 33 against. Good morning, Madam Representatives and MPs. We continue with the work, with the item on the agenda announced, which is - Annual Report on the work of the 2009 Competition Protection Agency Proposer: The Competition Protection Agency submitted this report in accordance with Article 36(1). The law on the protection of competition. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Ms. Olgica Spevec, President of the Competition Protection Council. Here you go.
