ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55692	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament regulates the rights and duties of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, including the right to free transport in public transport, railway, river, sea and air in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and in urban transport. In addition, this law also provides for a way of achieving this right and for the funds for these fees to be secured in the state budget. The Government of the Republic of Croatia assesses the necessary and necessary in the process of achieving the objectives and principles of the economic recovery programme of the Republic of Croatia and thus contribute to reducing the expenditure of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with this, the Government proposes to suspend the right of legislators to free transport by means of public transport, and in this respect it is proposed to delete it in Article 3(4), also to delete the title above Articles 7 and 7. The law governing the way in which this right is exercised and the provision of resources in the state budget. Also, minor changes, especially in the current paragraph 5, which becomes point 4. where it is prescribed that the representative has the right to resign under the conditions laid down in this law, are added words: and other special laws. In this case, in particular, the Retirement Act is referred to as the Retirement Act, which has been reached according to specific rules in pension insurance. The law also stipulated that the pension of MPs in the Croatian Parliament be reduced by 10%. Mr. President, we suggest that the Croatian Parliament pass this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55693	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55694	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposal before us, so the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We find a foothold of this position in the first place in the ability to reduce the expenditure of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia as one of the essential elements necessary and necessary in the process of achieving the objectives and principles of the economic recovery programme of the Republic of Croatia. So, reducing the expenditure of the state budget, and at all levels, I repeat at all levels, at this point, is really necessary, so all the legislative proposals that go in this direction are not only welcome but also a basic prerequisite for economic recovery, regardless of their height and character. As regards the concrete legislative proposal, it is very small changes to the laws that are consisting of the abolition of the right of representatives to free transport, i.e. compensation for public transport costs in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in urban transport. So, by the power vested in this law, this right is lifted. As regards non-technical interventions in Article 3 of the existing law, they are, in part, unnecessary, as already provided for in Article 3(3) of the Law, defined that the representative is entitled, by virtue of the conduct of his or her duties, to obligations already laid down in specific regulations. Finally, in terms of supporting all the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of realising the economic recovery programme of the Republic of Croatia, this bill should be supported, not only because of concrete financial indicators, because they are minimal, but also at a value or principle level, at the level of the message to the Croatian public. In this regard, we propose that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community propose that this legislative proposal be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55695	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55696	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-HSU club will absolutely support this amendment to the law. If we need to save, and we need to and must, then we need to get away from us anyway. We have supported all the forms of savings so far and as far as pay goes and as far as pension concerns and as far as our coffees, juices, as far as public transport is concerned, we will support them. We hope that the Government will be consistent and that, with regard to the use of official vehicles, the same will apply to savings in this area. But colleagues and colleagues, let's be realistic. There's something missing from this bill. There's something missing, and we haven't heard a word of it from the promoters. We at the club HNS, HSU are interested colleagues and colleagues in the cost of the Croatian Assembly of Public Transport of Assembly MPs in the course of 2008, during the course of 2009, and how much we will really save this year. The numbers don't matter. It would be good, I repeat for a hundred times when laws like this are passed that we have at least a little bit of analysis, a little objectivity, to see what the real effect of what we're doing today is. These days, colleagues and colleagues in the media have seen a series of interesting data related to the government's one-sided attempt to contribute to the budget. In that sense, we increased VAT, introduced crisis taxes and a number of other measures. What's the score? The result is less chargeable than a year ago. Then we brought down the austerity measures to spend less. We've brought in a dozen measures. The result is what? It's worth 0.6% more this year than in the same period last year. My colleagues and colleagues, where does the money leak? Why the government doesn't take any measures, no results at all. In fact, it's the opposite of what we expected. So we seem to be repeating for the hundredth time. We save thousands or tens of thousands of kunas and girls billions. That certainly cannot be allowed. My colleagues and colleagues, it took the government six months to realize that the crisis knocked on our door. Then the prime minister said the crisis would eventually only give us a bit of a patch. We'll go better than the others. Unfortunately, it seems to us that the government has not realized that the crisis has passed in most European and world states, at least those we like to compare with. I don't know if it's throwing itself at me or anyone else, and we're still patching holes and we don't understand how these countries managed to get out of the economic crisis. My colleagues and colleagues, the only expression is to increase overall economic activity, increase employment, increase production. This is nothing but populism, it's throwing sand in the eyes. This kind of measures can and should be saved, but let's not expect to get out of the crisis this way or even make the slightest shift out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55697	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55698	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Officials. We estimate that this is not a huge denial, because most of the parliamentary deputies used transportation for arrival and departure from the Parliament session, and this will continue to be recognised. So far, they would say one right that has allowed many to use transports in their cities, travel outside their arrivals, and go to work. Most of the MPs didn't even use it. And that's probably our assessment of why the proposer didn't make the amount to be saved with these changes and additions. It is evident that most of the costs so far under this law have been made for certain trips to Dubrovnik or Split for the simple reason that Croatia Airlines has calculated the difference in the map to the Croatian Parliament. Let's be honest, the transport of city carriers for possible transport in Zagreb, Rijeka, to any other city, these carriers did not invoice to the Croatian Parliament, so these costs essentially for taxpayers were neither except for the cost of showing or having as a free transport of carriers and charged possibly by local carriers. So what we're assessing the purpose of this law is simply a message from the government and the Prime Minister that we're trying to save. But it is evident that such savings cannot be resolved by a major change in the state budget on the spending side. This is also the reason why the SDP club has been constantly insisting for the last two months on budget rebalancing. It is evident that in 2010 we do not realise the budget that we have made for this year, that we have an increase in expenditure, that we cannot cover these expenditures with the revenue side because we have a significant decrease in revenue and in essence we have the financing of all these expenditure increases by further borrowing, we have the creation of deficits, the destabilising of finances by the fiscal government. This is something that we need to discuss in the Croatian Parliament, that is what we want to talk openly where we can find additional savings, where the additional amount of expenditure is aligned with the revenue side which is obviously at risk this year. Unfortunately, there is no discussion in the Croatian Parliament. Also, the government's programme of austerity measures which, just over a month and a half ago, the prime minister published to the Croatian public has never been converted into numbers or essentially valorised, so neither the citizen nor the serious business public nor we in the Croatian Parliament are able to assess the effects of the measures or the effectiveness of the implementation of the measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As long as we don't see that rebalancing, as long as we don't talk seriously about the rebalancing process in the Croatian Parliament, we're basically not going to have any important information about the savings. All of this remains I would say declaratively, all of this remains some message, but the real effect in reducing the cost of taxpayers in 2010 is gone. This is why the SDP club once again calls on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to rebalance the budget into the constituency benches, and regardless of which we support this declarative norm, this government's declaration proposal to simply show that we have nothing against savings, but we estimate that the effects of savings will be really small.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55699	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55700	I thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I will, on behalf of the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, comment on this bill of law that is before us. So in our opinion this proposal of the law with its two provisions is in principle a benign law that needs to be sent to the public, that there are still some privileges of parliamentary MPs to be discussed and which should normally be done and then will be done in the budget of the Republic of Croatia with significant savings. This is also said in the government's explanation where it says that the procedure is adopted, that the law is adopted by emergency procedure, it is assessed as necessary and necessary in the process of realisation, objectives and principles of the economic recovery programme of the Republic of Croatia. So it is suggested by who knows which times there are, that certain rights should be given to parliamentary representatives, such as that, as it was said some time ago, related to coffee, mineral waters in the constituencies, as is said to be done with parking tickets to the Assembly, so here we are today with the pensions of the Assembly MPs. I think you'll all agree in this assembly that we'll accept it, too, and we'll agree that free public transport to the council's deputies should be abolished. It is clear today that today, if the tram in the City of Zagreb is paid by pensioners, if paid by students, there is no reason not to pay for it and parliamentary representatives. In my opinion, parliamentarians are mostly private people, both materially and professionally, some are even in their own parallel private business and these kinds of privileges they don't need and I don't think that anyone is against this public transport to the parliamentary representatives in the future being abolished. Although it would be good if we had at least some sort of calculation of how much the funds were actually spent in this proposal, that is, how much is the financial effect on the budget expected when this law is passed. We at the SDSS are particularly interested, we think that this privilege of a representative should be abolished because we often meet up with a category of people living below every social minimum, and it would be very incorrect then to talk about what we are talking about in a different way. But why did I answer for this debate? Because I don't think that's the point. Old people, or ancient Latins, once said when they wanted to solve the problem then they needed to go to the center of things, i.e. the medias true. There's an open question here that we can honestly answer ourselves are these things that we've now done to ourselves like coffee, like transportation, like parking tickets, like pensions, etc., is that solving problems, is that in medias really the solution to the problem during which it comes? Or there is once again a message to the public that there is still a category, a category of extra privileged to which these extra privileges should, in some ways, be abolished and then the budget will be significantly, significantly more quality, significantly fuller. Somehow at the same time that we got this bill, we got, it was published in the paper, it was published in the morning list one news. I'm only going to refer here to the two news, one is, they're time diametrically opposite, one's from this time, and one news is from some past time. So the "morning list" said the title "drunk billionaires" and it refers to seven agencies, government agencies where the parameters of how much these seven government agencies spend on the lease, which is measured by millions of amounts, for the lease of a business space, are spoken individually about the salaries of people who are headed by these agencies and these salaries are colleagues and colleagues above, often above some of the averages of our salaries, and here, of course, it is not mentioned that they also have other... Like a service car, like a cell phone that uses 25 hours a day, like the possibility of taking part in some kind of business that I'm not talking about right now, or even the possibility of having some extraordinary life insurance on the basis of some other premiums, etc., etc. [[You don't understand.]] In this article, even an individual director of the agency publicly acknowledges that she is aware that she has disproportionately high wages, and disproportionately high benefits based on that function, given this time but what is there, she has received it. So does this all look for any particular comment, could we still talk about managerial contracts that are like topics that are flooded with daily newspapers, about the astronomical severances of people who were headed by state firms, so I'm not talking about a private business that has the right to behave according to some of its own rules, but these are people who enjoy certain privileges, enormously large privileges, and are headed by companies, agencies, funds that are mostly owned by the Republic of Croatia. Certainly, the greatest benefit of these people is that they are far away in their work, in their ministry far from the public view of public criticism, and they cannot be as parliamentary representatives every day on the media, where their work is monitored and where everyone has the right to assess whether someone is up to date in these parliamentary benches at work or not, whether he has a quality debate or not, and whether he has done his salary and not to get any additional benefits. The same question as how many of such favored, privileged services there are at a local level that we know nothing about and we can't talk about right now and we haven't had a chance to be told through the public, through the media or through discussions in this House. People who talk to each day often wonder when they're reading the fact that someone who's led a major state-owned company is going to retire and gets a severance of several hundred million kunas, they're wondering if in this country where most of the population can't pay electricity with their regular incomes there, and is it possible that people who are headed by such state-owned companies aren't enough fact that they're in the director's category and that they have high wages and that they have all the opportunities to fake their lives in the way they think they need to have some other management contracts with astronomical guarantees that if they're not re-elected companies they have to pay them, then it's easier to get a new mandate than to pay them the agreed amount of re-election after the re-election. So it's something that happens in life that's something that's our reality. And this second member I would like to talk about, who would read about this topic, and what I'm going to conclude with is an article found in a newspaper called "Storeyear and written in 1910. At the time, the Parliament of Slavonia and Croatia was President of the Parliament, Dr Bogdan Medakovic, and he received a regulation governing certain rights of the then parliamentary representatives. The MPs at the time had the right, in the name of the travel expenses, to first order a railway tax, if there were no railways, then they had the right to a steamer's connection, they were entitled to a steamer's fee, they were entitled to a mile. Also in Zagreb, for the fijaker in Zagreb, for the transport of luggage other small expenditures were received by representatives of 10 crowns. Therefore, why I read this because this kind of cost of parliamentaryism is not the invention of this time, it has always been applied, and parliamentaryism has always cost, in one way or another, the fact that it is also costing today. So if we're not ready to have a category of people who have the right to certain benefits then we should say, quite clearly, that we are in the end not that in this situation where we all live, we have something extra but we're not allowed to be publicly discredited, that every two, three months, every two months, we're not going to be able to pull one thing away from the parliamentary representatives who's actually a great deal of money, and we're going to take that, that and that, and then we're going to have some sort of one-on-one-one privilege here, and now every two months when there's a certain need in society to send a message to them, we're going to take it, that and that, and then we're going to have a situation in society. We can also ask ourselves if we are to blame for this whole thing ourselves, whether we ourselves have come to this opportunity and this situation where we are, and by our discussions and our own interest, by our presence here in this Assembly, and whether all these things should end up being different. We leave it to everyone to think. We ultimately as a Club in the Croatian Parliament support these amendments to the bill, but we are not satisfied with the message that should have been with the amendment of this Law sent to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55701	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, first Mr. Gordan Maras. He's gone. Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55702	I was a little surprised at the speed. My colleagues and colleagues, I have noticed a constant discomfort when it comes to the privileges of ourselves, whether they are brought or abolished, and we have been attending in recent years, yet more frequently, the abolition of these privileges, no matter what they may be, which is not surprising. However, according to my predecessor, perhaps we should really take advantage of the opportunity to talk about what seems to me to be the measure of things. It is certain that by eliminating one of these privileges, which I must say from a very superficial analysis, which was quite unsustainable because I did not get the impression that this privilege was used by overly many parliamentary representatives. Because most of us don't use public transportation, I think that's why there's no data, savings will be nothing or very minimal. On the other hand, it is clear that this unsupervised privilege should have been abolished before because it had not in any way contributed to the quality of work, and I suppose moreover that it should have been in one symbolic sense when the one who brought it when it was designed had to be more marked by the giving of free hands, in full sense that word to the parliamentary deputies that was once spoken of when the first multiparty parliament was established that it was only dear God above the Parliament. If you look at the history of the privileges of political privileges above all MPs as tops or visible peaks and the dream of the political elite, so what citizens see daily and what they can judge about, then it has its duration. I remind myself that in 2000, then, the government reduced salaries to parliamentarians, ministers by more than 30, I think 40%, which was a major and significant reduction. And if those salaries were kept, their real value would now be somewhere twice as much pay as the ones the parliamentary deputies have. They mentioned colleagues eliminating these free coffees, mineral waters and one very specific right that is parking in a garage that makes a significant item, because every day they single out 60, 70 kunas to get to work and park the car is not such a small item for people who work and have to work and live exclusively from their salaries and no other incomes. On the other hand, the salaries of parliamentary representatives are somewhere in level three, fourth management echelon in banks and public enterprises, etc. In other words, when it comes to benefits, wages, the receipts of parliamentary deputies, then I would say that there is one general opinion that they are, in any case, too high. If you talked to people about how high they were and how high they should cut it, it would never be enough, even if it was free it would be too much to say. Now we're actually coming to what I think is the central question that needs to be asked when the rights of the people who have the task of representing the citizens of this country are governed. There are forty thousand votes behind each of us, and in that sense we should really be the real representatives of those who chose us. However, the general dissatisfaction with the political elites, the way political elites operate over the past twenty years, has led to the fact that the rating is a political reputation and the general reputation of us who restore any public social function, and in particular parliamentary representatives at an inadmissible low level. Is there any excuse? Can we accept it and take it as a fact and react to it? Can we be angry at that and say that it is unwarranted, because each of us has an opinion of ourselves and of our colleagues or we can raise awareness of the causes of such problems. First, this radical dissatisfaction with political elites has its own cause I would say in three key characteristics that are really present when it comes to political elites in Croatia. It does not have to comfort us too much that it is not much better in other countries either. It is a low level of responsibility that is often shown when it comes to these political elites, even to us if you want to be here in the Parliament. Remember your respected colleagues, remember how many times we have, especially the representatives of the ruling coalition, passed one law, fiercely and fiercely defended it, in order to change three months, one month or five months after that same law, and then the same ones who strongly advocated it would attack and defend the opposite solution. It is not a contribution to the responsibility or credibility of those of us sitting in the Parliament. The conversion of parliamentary representatives exclusively into a voting machine to people who have done their job only or raise their hand or if they are more zealous then defend it. It cannot be and cannot be exhausted from the role of parliamentary representatives and citizens' representatives. Let's remember that the political elite of all these years has had illusions, how the villages of Podokin were built, how people were deceived. Then why should people trust us? Why should we believe in responsibility and seriousness if we were part of such a political practice that some have warned of, and some have supported it with God’s wholehearted support. We have a Croatian country in charge where we recognize ourselves that we are not in bananas but in pineapples and that we do not know how to get away with it. So who's responsible and guilty? Well, they're not people who don't make decisions, because all of this is our current state is nothing but the result of bad political decisions and irresponsibleness that manifests whatever you touch and whatever you touch in our country. I will mention that under these parliamentary representatives and political elites are understood as a colleague mentioned little time and local political powermakers, those who communicate with authority and with the trust of citizens in a disastrous way. Since I am somewhat better acquainted with opportunities, it is likely elsewhere, in the city of Sisak the mayor on the same day that he makes a decision on the introduction of the cut, he determines for himself a salary that is higher than the salary of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. The truth is it's later under pressure brought down something lower. Or these days on the same day when the mayor of that same small and poor town of Sisak makes a decision to turn out the lights in the city on behalf of the savings, in which no grass is cut and the town of Sisak looks like some African town in Savannah covered with grass, the mayor makes a decision to form a new institution, a new institution to hire only one person, that's his wife. These are amazing stories that contribute to people's perception of us as irresponsible, easy - minded, and selfish people. When it comes to honesty, all affairs, all privatisations that stand are about politics and political elite. Since this law will not say we have significantly changed or contributed to savings, it certainly can, as well as the reactions to it that we have seen in the media, can contribute to raising awareness of the level of our own responsibility for the states and behaviours of everyone who makes this so-called. Croatian political elite. Of course I support this law and this savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55703	Thank you. We have one correction. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55704	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Vidovic made an incorrect allegation by trying to make an example of the mayor of Sisak, and I know it's normal because the mayor of Sisak replaced him from the six-month mayor's seat, said that in the town of Sisak the lights were out, that we were as if I didn't know where, and at the same time he founded an institution to hire one person who was completely incorrect. Besides, you've mixed pears and apples, it's known when the lights are turned off and where they're paid from, and it's known where the employees of the facility are paid from. But why didn't you say that in Sisak-Moslavina County, Mayor Marina Lovric has 13 advisers and a Council of 13 people who cost a million and 200 citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County annually. So you've really politicized everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55705	There was no mention of the mayor, but then she doesn't belong in the correction. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55706	The Rules of Procedure are intended to say that I was incorrect, and the colleague did not say that I said anything incorrect. The truth is, the light's out, every other light... It's true. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And for God's sake, it's the mayor's decision. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the truth is, there's only one person employed, the mayor's wife in the Sisak Concert Directorate. Which is incorrect, which is an incorrect colleague in that, so let me know.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55707	In light of the light, the Rules of Procedure were not injured because you claimed that the lights had been turned off, and the lady claimed that no lights had been turned off. ... I'm not going into the metrics at all, but you claimed one thing, the other, and there was no injured Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In this regard, Mrs. Rules of Procedure did not harm the Rules of Procedure because she only said the contrary to what you said, and how true this is about the latter. We have another replica, Mrs. Mariana Petrir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55708	Dear fellow Vidovic, you mentioned benefits that exist at local levels. I think it is good that you are here in the Croatian Parliament when discussing the rights of officials is also talking about it, because it is often a completely false perception in the public that MPs here have no rights, and it is known that we have neither official phones nor cards nor drivers like the local and regional self-government leaders. I wish you'd been a little critical of your party colleagues when you mentioned the city of Sisak and the mayor of HDZ. It would be good if you mentioned a drastic example that you are witnessing and that you know of in Sisak-Moslavina County. It is about Mrs Lovric, who is the mayor of the SDP, who knows that she has the largest number of advisors in the country, that the Ministry of Administration has reached a solution that Mrs Lovric has unlawfully appointed these 13 advisers for whom she spends more than one million kunas, that it is the turn of the roof coverings, of the marbles, of the pensioners who are unable to advise in anything and that there is actually a purchase of coalition partners here. The latest entanglement at the SIMERA Development Agency should be somewhere where knowledge is collected and is really expected from this development agency to help people write projects. The presidents of the coalition parties, Mrs Lovric, sit there in turn, not to mention the enormous bill for the team and everything else. So I agree with you that you should look at all levels and of course when there is a problem and there is something wrong that should be revealed, that you should make it clear, but I wish that you were so objective in that presentation that you mentioned the other side or member of your party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55709	Thank you. Answer, Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55710	So my colleagues turned on the red light, and I could still give countless examples of a violation or at least troublesome and immoral behavior just very much at the local level. The fact that the mayor Lovric has no idea how many advisors and the way he has them, so does the mayor of Sisak just seem to be his advisers by the same criteria, the same principle is not problematic and of this they are. I would like to introduce a unique one, so it's legally arranged who can have advisors, how many they can and how they pay. I mentioned the town of Sisak because I'm a town councilman and I know the opportunities there and I'm surprised how possible it is. That same mayor of Sisak we mentioned was stalking, and along with his friend, he's paying for the lawsuit, and he's looking for investigations to see how ten years ago they got hired, say, by the head of the opposition in Sisak. These are scandalous things, it surpasses the frameworks of a city because it happens in Croatia that would like to be legally arranged and a normal country. I don't support any form of abuse by any one, including members of my own party.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55711	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55712	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. When I proposed to amend only one article of the same law in 2005, I challenged and accused me of demagogy. I then proposed that, by changing only one article, the conditions for the right to pension of parliamentary MPs be changed, that the privileged status be deleted and that, like everyone else in this country, we go into retirement under the general pension rules. It was then a demagogue for most of the colleagues and colleagues in the Parliament, but also for the Government of the Republic of Croatia who had not given an opinion on my bill for a year and a half, and then a group of experts studied my bill proposal, as former Prime Minister Sanader said, and then thanks to then President Seks, it was open before the election of the debate on the law. So what happened now? Over a year and a half ago, the government acted like a demagogue seven times and changed the law. I am particularly stressing this as a demagogue, because the government has also proposed twice the correction of the Pensions Act, and then the conditions for retirement have changed, and then the pensions have been reduced, and then the salaries have been cut, so the parking cards have been lifted and now we've come to public transport. When I said in 2005 that parliamentary, we Parliamentarians, apart from these pensions, have other privileges, I was attacked that the word "privilegal" is not appropriate for Parliament and Members of Parliament, that these are neither privileges nor privileges but the usual rights that most of the countries in Europe give to Members of Parliament. And now, one by one, this non-privilegalism, the disapproval of the government's will and the ruling majority who then shouted demagogy, the subject of serious obstacles, debate, change and abolition. I find it rather strange that the government, in the light of this law, is calling for savings, without giving a single piece of information on how much money was paid in a calendar year on the burden of the state budget for the use of public transport. It doesn't say how much less expenditure will be now. Given that the government has not given data either in mass or individually, I would like to know which MPs they are, whether there are at all Mr. Secretary of State who used public transport outside the Parliament's work. So, I don't know about tourist trips, they didn't know what they were doing from boredom, so they traveled around Croatia, went to weddings, vacations, excursions, hunting. Are there any? Is the reason for the abolition of this provision on public transport the fact that this has been massively misused, not for work in the Parliament. Third. In 2008 for the entire calendar year I spent on the burden of the state budget 2059 kuna and made the cost of public transport. And in 2009 2425 kuna. That's the official record of the Parliament for the entire year. If I had done that at the same time instead of using public transportation to write a travel order and use the car I would have received a monthly of 1600 kuna, a car loan war. And now, in the light of this law as a great savings, you will no longer benefit from public transportation, but from car stop or walk on your feet. Because the explanation says that this right or this question has to be settled in a different way. How will the Government now settle the issue of the arrival and departure of parliamentary representatives in a different way? So now I'm asking why the government didn't go savings, so she said this. All state officials, by the way, and members of the government are also deprived of the right to free public transport. It doesn't say here. Is that the right of other government officials to remain or are they also abolished? Therefore, if money was to be saved, then Article 7 should be amended and it should be written that all public officials use public transport to perform their duties, i.e. they have the right to public transport and only that amount to be recognised. And when travel orders and compensations were lifted 2 kuna per km for their own car, then they would be millions of savings, and then they would save a lot of money, if also government members, state secretaries, deputy ministers, parliamentary deputies, and all who use it rightly, and those with official cars 24 hours a day with a driver or without a driver were sent to public transport, then it would be much cheaper. And then I'd believe it was the purpose of saving. But the abolition of this article does not eliminate the right to write travel orders and two kunas per km for a car that is more expensive than public transport, not once, five times more expensive. And now I don't understand the economic crisis, the banana budget, we have to save, we cancel the cheaper variant and leave it more expensive. Where does that make sense? Or it's just demagogue cosmetics to justify themselves in front of the people, so you see, we've lifted another privilege that won't cut the cost, but it sounds nice. The beautiful title in the newspaper is the same – another privilege lifted. The one who collects and leaves more expenses will stay. So what now? Instead of 2,000 kn per year by train or by bus to write travel orders and raise 5 times as much money. That's the government's wish, Mr. State. That's what you're telling me. I don't understand. It would be better if you went to give information and calculate, to see where the higher cost is and as is in Europe the trend that all government officials use public transport instead of official cars, and especially their own cars, and then two kunas per mile. Well, some colleagues here in the Parliament raise 90,000 a year for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55713	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55714	Thank you, Mr. President. So, counterpart Lesar proposes to use public transport for all MPs and other state officials. I have to say it's not easy to do. You need to know that people travel from different parts of the Republic of Croatia where there is no simply such organised public transport that they can be used daily and that man can arrive here on time to the Assembly, to return home on time and so on day after day. It is easy for you to use public transport when you sit practically in your place on the train, get off the train in Zagreb. But you must know that not all cities and places in the Republic of Croatia are in such a position and are so well connected to public transportation with our workplace here in the Croatian Parliament. The cost of using a private car is also limited per month, per km and at an annual level. So I ask you not to create confusion and spread lies among the viewers and citizens of the Republic of Croatia about tens of thousands of people who are being spent using a private car, to get to work and to get out of work from the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55715	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the club, actually 5 minutes on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55716	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Government. So here are our portals, front page newspapers, so the electronic and written media on the front pages, i.e. on the breaking news, talking about cutting, cutting off another privilege of hateful, lazy, unfair, irresponsible political elites. What a perception of the public and what I would say is a little, a little naughty mockery of people, ordinary people, or justifiably a mockery of people on here, as someone before me said on a government coup against rights that have parliamentary representatives. When I was here two years ago from this pay phone, I was surprised that parliamentary representatives had been taking a break from the summer of 2 months, 15 July, 15 September, and then winter 15 December to 15 January, I did not find approval, although it has been the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament since I suppose since the Croatian Parliament was in this new state. However, I would rather talk here about what has led to the perception of the public in which people welcome this decision, and it actually serves one political, decision, or draft law, and even demagogue purposes, is concerned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to begin, as I would say from the head and here is a cut of some privilege, as someone said here seems to me once your vice president also in the debate acquired rights, and they are acquired only and exclusively by the decision of the Croatian Parliament and, or again for acquisition or against acquisition. When I spoke here a year ago about the acquired right of the government official of the Republic of Croatia to use 130 official cars and 80 drivers, then I also got the answer, to say from your vice president, that it was acquired right. Now, obviously there's no answer here, how much savings will be by cutting this privilege? How many officials, or parliamentary representatives, used public transport in, air, river, rail, road for other purposes than eventually coming to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, and most of them coming to special cars, except for those who, like some of us, never had the need to pass a driving test, so because they always drove them to the Croatian Parliament, or to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and they never had to take a driving test and use their own car. And there are those here and here, and mostly in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who must have been driving them all their lives. Such rights, such privileges should be cut. It is clear that I am also for this bill of law, which therefore deprives me of the right to transport in the territory of the Republic of Croatia by all means of transport, except for the need for a clear arrival at the workplace in the Croatian Parliament, and this would be very measurable, and it would be necessary to measure the presence, at least here in the Croatian Assembly, which is very often staring empty. And no one speaks of it, nor is it evaluated, nor is it honored, nor is it punished. As far as we are involved here in such important topics in the Croatian Parliament, and the state is supposed to join the European Union, the laws are lined up like on tape, and here we are now not counting, but there is not a third of 153. This should be discussed, and this measure will not bring any savings, but clearly everything that is regulated in this way is unnecessary and it is really unnecessary for me to travel to the sea by train to the citizens of the taxpayers, but to travel with my money. I don't know why, why would I travel by train, by plane, by bus to the burden of our taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55717	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55718	Here, I'll be for the HDSSB club too, though we think it's demagogy and politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55719	We have one correction, Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55720	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Boro said this was just one political, or demagogue decision. I can't agree with that. I remind you, my colleague, that only during our term of office in these two and a half years these last legal changes in taxes have been reduced for the third time by representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This is one consistent contribution from MPs to the austerity measures that we are voting the laws right here and how much we are trying to reduce the costs of parliamentary deputies. I remind you that there is no more free parking that we had here at Mark's square and in the surrounding streets than parking in the garage normally pays. And there are also no more juices, drinks, coffee on boards that are often held during the session of the Croatian Parliament, and these are all the austerity measures that MPs have here and this small contribution that we are discussing today are giving at this very difficult moment both Croatia and the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55721	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55722	Thank you, Mr. President. This is a correction of the opinion, so the breach of the Rules of Procedure under Article 209 is a correction of opinion rather than a correction of facts. Therefore, an incorrectly used correction institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55723	Mr. Pavle Matičić, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55724	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank you for the debate on this final draft law on the rights of officials and MPs, and I would like to thank you in particular for your support for the adoption of this final draft law. On the final draft of the law, we received an amendment from Mr. Emil Tomljanovic, the government accepts the amendment of MP Emil Tomljanovic for reasons given in the explanation of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55725	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we are going to vote on the debated agenda points. 1. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 546. The debate is over. The amendment was submitted by MP Emil Tomljanovic. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I therefore give the vote the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority, 94 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55728	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Pursuant to Article 125(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 57(1), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in relation to Article 8 The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament tabled a proposal for a decision to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia who unanimously established at a session held on 30 June 2010. TE is proposing to the Croatian Parliament that a decision on the election of one judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia be taken at this session. On the basis of Article 6 of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a list of candidates entering a narrow selection for the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, namely the Master of Science Nevenko Shenhorst, and the Master of Science Antonija Kovačić. In accordance with Article 9(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, On 18 January 2010, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Constitutional Court, informed the Croatian Parliament that on 18 July 2010, the term of office of Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's Master of Science, Nevenki Shenhorst, expires. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 6(1) The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the procedure for the candidate of the Constitutional Court judges and the proposal for elections of the Croatian Parliament is carried out by the Board of the Croatian Parliament responsible for the Constitution. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament referred in accordance with Article 6. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, an invitation to judicial institutions, colleges, legal chamber, legal associations, political breaks and other legal persons and individuals to propose candidates for the election of one judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The invitation was published in the National Journal, Vesnik, Vecernji list, and website of the Croatian Parliament. The deadline for the application was 60 days, and the last day for the application was 31 May 2010. With the invitation, the candidates were asked to submit, along with a résumé, documentation on the fulfilment of the legislation of the prescribed conditions, especially of the housekeeper, diplomas of completed degrees of education, certificates of working experience in the legal profession, a copy of the work book and confirmations of the employer, a confirmation of the criminal court that no criminal proceedings and confirmation of the Ministry of Finance were conducted against the applicant, the IRS that the applicant had settled all obligations. The candidates, Branko Chizeka, Mirska Klinzic, Antonija Kovačić, Zoran Piculjana and Nevenka Shenhorst, arrived on time. At a session held on 30 June 2010, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament unanimously found that five candidates submitted their bids in due time, all five of these candidates. Article 6(4) of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that the committee responsible shall hold a public conversation with each candidate meeting the conditions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and, on the basis of the data collected and the results of the talks, draw up a list of candidates entering a narrow choice for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, with the fact that the list of candidates normally contains more candidates than the number of judges of the Constitutional Court to be elected. The committee called for a public discussion of all candidates whose bids it has identified as valid. During the public conversation, members of the Committee came closer to meet the candidates who presented the data they considered important. The official note from the public talks with the candidates is an integral part of this proposal for a decision. After the decision was published, the Committee decided on how to determine the list of candidates entering the narrow election for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal by the chairman of the Vladimir Seks board to make a list of candidates who are entering a narrow election for one judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia two candidates voted in a secret vote, the committee unanimously accepted. The secret vote found that the candidates received the following number of votes, Branko Chiszek and Mirko Klinzic, none, Antonija Kovacic 8, Zoran Piculjan 4, Nevenka Shernhorst with 12 votes. The Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament suggests to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a list of candidates who enter a narrow selection for a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and this Master of Science Nevenko Shernhorst and Master of Science Antonija Kovačić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55729	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55730	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. President-in-Office of the Committee on the Constitution, colleagues and colleagues. In democratic countries, the Constitutional Court is a guardian of the rule of law and a guarantee of the rule of law. It must also be in the Republic of Croatia. So we unusually appreciate the role of the Constitutional Court in the democratic parliamentary system. In this regard, the role is also intended in the Croatian legal system of the role of the Constitutional Court, which is why the SDP Club in the form of 55 representatives of the Croatian Parliament has proposed that in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which has been in force until the last changes, provision be made for constitutional judges to be elected by the two-thirds majority of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So, on the proposal of a group of MPs, the paper passed a legal rule, a standard for judges of the Constitutional Court to be elected by a two-thirds majority. We believe that the Constitution is passed, declared and valid. As a consequence, the provision of Article 125, respectively, of the 25th Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, may and must be applied directly. So that, in this case too, a judge or judge of the Constitutional Court must be elected by a two-thirds majority of the Croatian Parliament. This is a previous issue which decides in principle on the application of the Constitution and on the essence. If that's the case, I'll try to back it up with a few facts. Namely, in the case of amendments to the Constitution 2001. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was then passed on the implementation of the Constitution, provides, therefore, for, to be determined that the Constitution can and should be applied directly. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law implementing the Constitution is explicitly stated "The provisions of the Constitution for whose application under the Constitution do not have to be adopted by the Constitutional Law or by law shall apply immediately from the date of the declaration of the Constitution". We believe that this earlier issue is important, therefore, from a principled and essential point of view, so our suggestion, namely our request to adopt it as a rule, and in other words this means that after discussing this item of the agenda on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, we are to stand by within parliamentary harmonisation. I think it's a step in democratisation, but it's a significant step in strengthening the position of the Constitutional Court judge and his legitimacy. Accordingly, the SDP club, depending on its compliance, will also take place in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55731	Thank you. Today we will discuss the proposals, how we will vote when we vote. ... Mr. Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS club. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55732	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It could be said that today we will do a job that is more or less technical, fill a place in the Constitutional Court. However, in the opinion of the SDSS Representatives Club, this cannot be a technical issue for the simple reasons why changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia have been made in the meantime. These amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia therefore substantially alter the procedure of electing judges of the Constitutional Court, as they are prescribed that constitutional judges be elected by a two-thirds majority. Both the intention of this Assembly and those who have proposed and who have agreed that such a procedure of election of constitutional judges should be introduced into constitutional changes and accepted as adopted by this Assembly, it was obvious that the conduct of the current poor practice could be given to judges of the Constitutional Court or a practice that suffered from a series of shortcomings when, as a result of the elections of the Constitutional Court judges that we were able to observe and about which there were different discussions both in the public and in the expert and non-experienced. For this reason, the question is rightly raised whether we will continue the process of electing the Constitutional Court judges, not taking into account this change made in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, or whether we will continue this change and the reasons why this change occurred and try to create assumptions that the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court is done by the provisions, by the new provisions of the Constitution, or by the new content provided for by the judges of the Constitutional Court to choose 2/3 of the majority. It could be said that this is more doctrinal than a practical question because it is about selecting one judge, or in this case a judge, since two candidates are by comparison. However, the whole thing with the Constitution is such that it should be strictly observed and the whole thing with constitutional provisions is such that it should be observed not on the basis of will or on the basis of intent or not on the basis of what someone at some point might have as a specific party interest but on the strict diction of the very letter of the Constitution. For this reason, we at the SDSS Club are close to the opinion that there should be a consensus on the issue. Maybe it's a little too late for that consent, maybe that alignment should have taken place immediately with the consent of the amendments to the Constitution, maybe that thing should have really taken care of it right after she agreed to this as well as all the other provisions. But I also think that the Constitutional Court will not suffer if there is another consensus in this regard and if that agreement results in an agreement between the clubs in this House and then the vote for these two candidates is followed. One can say that consent is something that is not the most appropriate. I could say that, that had its bad consequences in early 2000, the reconciliation resulted in the most different party, party agreements that did not always take care of the profession, which did not always take care of the law or the Constitution. But based on this experience, we can take a step further and at this point take more care of what the profession is and what the provisions and the constitution and the law are. If I could judge by profession as a representative based on what we received from individual candidates and candidates then we could assess or conclude that we did not get the best that the profession in Croatia could offer, whether from academics or from non-academic judicial circles. The way in which individual biographies are written, some résumés do not instill the greatest trust in what is called expertise and what is called qualification. But this job has already been done on the board of directors, the Committee on the Constitution, and in this respect we can only comment on it afterwards but look back on the matter. I want to say that this is an opportunity, if we don't change something significant about the practice of electing the Constitutional Court judges, then at least to remind ourselves of the bad experiences and practices we've had so far. And as has already been said here, if by our choice of judges of the Constitutional Court we will contribute to the devaluation of the institution of the Constitutional Judge and the Constitutional Court here in this House, then we will not be able to do our job well. So that we, as advocates in this case, do not contribute either to institutionalisation in the judiciary or contribute to strengthening institutionality in the judiciary but rather to the contrary, contribute to something that in the judiciary cannot be present, which is arbitration will, that is intent, that is interest and something that actually burdens our judiciary. And if this is happening at the level of the Constitutional Court's election, then of course it shouldn't be strange and no wonder what's going to happen at lower levels. And then, of course, it should be no wonder that we, as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, are considered to be co-responsible for such a situation or because we are considered co-responsible for the situation in the Constitutional Court itself. And my opinion at the end of what I had to say is that it is necessary to continue the practice of compliance and that this practice of compliance should be improved. This is neither unusual nor in the democracies that are older than us, nor in the democracies where constitutional courts have much stronger and more important powers than the Constitutional Court in the Republic of Croatia, based on the Constitution. And for that reason, it's just a question of what criteria we're going to have and whether we're going to increase them over and over again, whether we're going to develop them over and over again and over again, when it's the principle of reconciliation by Wednesday, or if we're going to re-valve them over and over and over again. And for that reason it seems to me that the invitation to consent stands, that it is good, we will support it, but I wish it had come sooner and came at the right moment, so at the moment right after the agreed positions on the provisions of the Constitution. And in the end, there will be a question that may sound radical from this pay phone. After the amendments to the Constitution have been adopted, whether and after we know what practice we have had when it comes to the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court in the past period, whether it is justified to think about the choice of the Constitutional Court as a whole in accordance with the new provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Not only do we fill one seat of the Constitutional Court judge as we should today, but I think that the subject of consensus should be whether we agree with the fact that the improvement of the work of the Constitutional Court and the composition of the Constitutional Court should be achieved to a significant extent if we make a decision on the basis of the agreed positions of the clubs, that the composition of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia should be ensured on the basis of new provisions and new methods of selection, and that means 2/3 of the majority in the election procedure in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55733	Thank you. Individual debate, we have one application. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55734	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On the occasion of the Constitutional Court's election, we cannot pass the main topic, which is how judges are elected, and in the light of the new Constitution, that is, the amendment and addition of the Constitution. We must note that here is the proposal and the SDP Club's initiative, the Constitution has been amended in this provision regarding the election of constitutional judges in such a way that it has been found that judges of the Constitutional Court are elected 2/3 by the majority. It is certainly a major democratic step that guarantees a single balance in the Constitutional Court of the Constitutional Judges' Council. That's also what he's talking about, the very way that he has to go out there is inconclusive and then he's talking and what he's calling the candidates, that most of them won't decide that, so on the other hand. The government's majority rather than being discussed in the Assembly not by some rotten trade and consensus, but simply by choosing the best. Such a dilemma that, following the vote of amendments and the addition of the Constitution, there have also been different interpretations, that for the application of the Constitution and all its provisions and norms it is necessary to pass the Constitutional Law after the implementation of the Constitution. And that's true about the part that's talking about the development of certain provisions. However, where it is as clear as this particular case, this provision said that constitutional judges are elected 2/3 by majority. This adoption of the Constitutional Law on the application of the Constitution cannot say anything else or have anything to say on this subject. The Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution is adopted there most often where the principles are and where the Constitution itself refers as some kind of blank norm that, in a specific case, it will pass a law that will further elaborate certain situations, which defines the status of some institutions, the fundamental powers, and then directs the legislator to adopt within a certain deadline of the law. But here it's quite clear. Unfortunately, we didn't get an answer from the HDZ Club here, and I think it's an important question and an important question. Because as constitutional judges choose, it's not one mere norm that guarantees the quality of content itself. So, here's one thing I'm not going to do, or repeat, what my colleague Leko was saying on behalf of the SDP club, we feel that these are the very issues that need to be clarified before they are as important as the content itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55735	Thank you. The final chairman of the board, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55736	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The procedure for the election for the vacancy of a judge of the Constitutional Court, more specifically, began and completed under the Constitutional Law of the Constitutional Court when the President of the Constitutional Court informed the Croatian Parliament that Judge Nevenki Shernhorst was giving the term of office on 18 or 16 July of this year and in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court began the procedure. In the meantime, there was also a change in the Constitution, where the Constitution found that the choice of the Constitutional Court judge was made by 2/3 of the majority. Genez or the origin of this idea is indeed right SDP's Club that it was the original idea of SDP's Representatives Club which then accepted IDS clubs, HNS and other clubs in the Croatian Assembly and other representatives and it was incorporated into the Constitution. It was precisely with judges of the Constitutional Court choosing 2/3 of the majority who wanted to take a qualitative step forward, to come to a really necessary consensus on which candidate to choose as judge of the Constitutional Court. The two-thirds majority are demanding the necessary and inevitable alignment, because there is no political option, no party has a two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament, and therefore, in this phase after the final debate, it will be necessary to implement the reconciliation. We had to implement the procedure under the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, which determines the procedure, and it is strictly impeccably respected, but now there has been a change of the Constitution and now a consensus should be made before the vote on which first, in the first row, which of these two candidates will try to agree on who these two candidates will opt for. It's in the front row about that. The second question to be asked is whether the Constitutional Court is to apply the constitutional provision of the new Constitution, the election of the two-thirds majority or the existing Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. I propose immediately that on Friday at 9:30 a.m., a committee meeting at which we agree on this first, firstly a procedural question, a procedural question, and after agreeing on this procedural issue, I think that somewhere, that club presidents should meet somewhere at 11:30 and try to agree on this second issue that concerns these two candidates. So it is no longer any more, any speculation is being rejected about any trade, not any trade, but simply in accordance with the Constitution, it is a matter of agreeing and seeking consensus on the possibility of a choice for the best candidate of the candidates proposed. Otherwise, even after this amendment, the Constitution will be necessary, as we have announced in all the discussions, and on the Committee on the Constitution, and in the Croatian Assembly and Working Groups, it is necessary to approach the creation of a new Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, which is now to be resolved under the Constitution, according to the new Constitution, it is only decided that the choice of the Constitutional Court judge is conducted by a two-thirds majority, but the rest of the procedure, the whole rest is still a valid constitutional law on the Constitutional Court, which provides for a public ad, an interview with candidates, the role of a committee that profiles, which will give a green light to the vote in the Assembly. So this whole procedure should be fully regulated differently because the practice of all these years has shown that it is necessary, that it is necessary that it is necessary, and especially because we are now introducing a two-thirds majority for the election and we have introduced a security clause in the Constitution, which is that if the judge to whom the new judge is not elected or the judge is elected to remain for 6 months the term of that judge whose term of office has expired in the course, in order for the court to act in full composition. But this new constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, we have discussed this on the Committee on the Constitution, and we will also suggest and propose that a new constitutional law be adopted on the Constitutional Court under which the procedure for selecting the Constitutional Court judge would begin a year before the term of office of one judge. So one year earlier, the procedure would have already started, and then, in this procedure, it would have clearly established the way in which it would have been agreed, so that there would have been a candidate for the Constitutional Court judges, and in which way, there would have been an agreement that would have been made within the Croatian Parliament, its bodies, so that there would have been those most appropriate candidates for the Constitutional Court judges and where, in this process of consent, they would have been elected and voted for by two-thirds of them. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, its decisions have a respectable importance in Europe and by courts, constitutional courts in Europe and in the political public of Europe, decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and its work have been assessed and evaluated at an envious, professional level. There has been dissatisfaction with certain decisions of the Constitutional Court in Croatia and the domestic political public, there have been dissatisfaction with the election of some members of the Constitutional Court, but the globally stated Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia enjoys far more respect and respect in Europe and the world than it is unfortunately enjoyed in Croatia. And we can be truly and proud of our Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which is a guardian to establish, which is a guardian of legality and that as such and recognised both in Europe and in the world as indeed an institution that is on an appropriate level. Clearly this should be upgraded and through the new Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court we will further, more will improve the work and quality and procedures to really come those who are the most qualified to work in the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court is the Sui Genis Fourth Authority, Legislative, Executive, Judgmental, but the Constitutional Court is a Sui Genis fourth power in the Republic of Croatia. He is the guardian of the Constitution of the Croatian State. Well, that's it. The Constitutional Committee remains with its proposal to propose to the Parliament to select one of these two candidates, we propose that on Friday at 9:30 a.m. the Constitutional Court Committee discusses the legal position on the procedure, the majority necessary for the selection of the Constitutional Court judges and at 11:30 a.m. to find the presidents of the Clubs to agree on the candidate of one judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55737	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide most likely Friday. Thank you. Now we're gonna vote out, so I'm gonna get to the bottom of it. Thus, a proposal for a decision on the selection of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. Since several candidates have been proposed, Article 231 will be implemented. The Rules of Procedure are a secret vote. The proposed candidate for the Constitutional Court shall be considered a elected judge if he is voted by two-thirds of the representatives, or 102 MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that three MPs assist me in carrying out a secret vote, and that is what I propose to Emil Tomljanovic, Mrs Sonja Simunovic and Mr Goran Beus Richembergh. Do we agree? If not, then Mrs. Danica Hursa. If there is no Mr. Richembergh Mrs. Danica Hursa. I'm setting a 30-minute break. The ballots are in front, and the word will be received except Vesna Pusic and Mr Andrija Hebrang, because he asked for a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55741	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you a proposal on amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions. The first Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions entered into force on 23 July 2003, and has been amended twice in 2006 and 2009. Since the adoption of the first Act in 2003, I will tell you a few statistics relating to the violation of this law, and otherwise generally to violations of public order and peace. From July 2003 to yesterday, a total of 9175 people were detained, according to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbation in Sports Competitions, 4004 persons, and under other laws 5 thousand and some persons. During this last period since the adoption of the last amendments and the addition of the law of 17 April 2009, 1766 persons have been detained under the Law on the Prevention of Disruptions 1468 and 300 persons under other laws. The injured person was injured from 2003 to 2010 with minor bodily injuries of 374, severe bodily injuries were sustained by 36 people. For the period since the last changes meant 17 April of last year, minor physical injuries have been sustained by 74 people, and serious physical injuries have been sustained by 7 people. A total of 7-year-old police officers were injured, with minor bodily injuries receiving 91 police official, serious physical injuries from 6 police officers. During the period from 17 April 2009 30 police officers sustained minor bodily injuries, one police officer sustained one serious physical injury. Harmful vehicles, M.P. vehicles 44, bus city 52, tram 37, train cars 11, passenger cars 178, in the last period of 17 April of M.U.P. vehicles 10, public transport buses 12, tram 1, train wagons 2, passenger vehicles 26. This all indicates that this problem of riots in sports competitions and sports competitions is current, that this problem does not vary or oscillate but is permanently and constantly present in Croatian society and in the Croatian public. So far, the total according to 119 fans have been given protective measures to ban attending certain sports competitions in accordance with the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions. According to 94 fans, fines of up to 10 thousand kuna have been fined, which is the most fined in the range of 1000 to 2000 kuna to 50 fans, at least these heavy fines are such fines from 8 to 9 thousand kunas given to one person, and from 9 to 10 thousand kuna to one person. According to 18 fans, the following prison sentences were imposed up to 90 prisons, in the following ranges. Up to 10 days there were 5 fans, 11 to 20 days 3 fans, 21 to 30 days 6 fans, up to 40 days 2 fans, from 40 to 50 days 2 fans and from 50 days to 90 days no fans. According to the Ministry of the Interior, all these penalties were conditional on no unconditional prison sentence. These were the reasons why the Ministry of the Interior proposed new amendments to the Government and the addition of the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, since such a violation of not only the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs but also other laws in sport competitions was extremely sensitive to the Croatian public and Croatian citizens expected from the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Government to react and to react especially to the latest violations of the Law where there were riots of greater proportions, including to one very serious injury to one visitor and serious physical injury to a police officer with great material damage and even more people injured. As a result, the Ministry of Interior proposed to the government and the government adopted and directed the parliamentary procedure of this amendment and the addition of the Law, I will try to tell you only the most important newspapers. The most important news is that four criminal acts are introduced in the Law beyond the criminal law because we consider these to be four types of specific criminal offences most often occurring in sports competitions and which, in their own form, cause riots and pose a potential danger to riots of larger scales. This is a crime of participation in a fight or an attack on viewers or other persons, then another crime, the organisation of violence in sports competitions, the 3rd crime of destroying things or property in a sports competition and the 4th crime of disregarding measures and bans. And for him, criminal responsibility is imposed during the duration of the safeguards, security measures or other measures of the Sui Genis. Through statistics and through the monitoring of events in sports competitions, it has been found that these are the most difficult forms of violations of the law that are most often repeated in sports competitions and that threaten the safety of visitors, as well as people around stadiums and other places where sports competitions take place. The second news is that it is possible for the Criminal Court to impose a ban on the competent police administration on the person who has been found to have previously acted unlawfully in a sports competition in either the Republic of Croatia or abroad on a certain sport competition or a ban on attending sports competitions during which it cannot be less than 6 months or longer than a year. This refers to the knowledge of the illegal behaviour of fans abroad, regardless of whether any proceedings are conducted abroad. In fact, it has occurred very often that the police of other countries did not want to prosecute the perpetrators of any criminal offences in other countries, but they applied police powers and then practically extradited them from their own country, and after that, without such a provision, they were not able to treat those perpetrators of various illegal behaviours in the Republic of Croatia either. Unless they were punished abroad, they practically went unpunished. Then the third newspaper to increase the amount of money, fines and the duration of the prison sentence was in the sense that the most severe illegal behaviours were often repeated either in terms of causing the greatest damage to other viewers who are staying in sport competitions. The fourth newspaper is the obligation to hand over travel documents to the competent police station, and 7 days before holding a certain sport competition, in the implementation of the existing safeguard measures. Also with regard to the implementation of the applicable safeguard measures, the time to report to the police station is changed, so instead of half an hour before the start of the sports competition, a person is obliged to report to the police station two hours before the start of the competition. In fact, the previous period of half an hour has often been shown as ineffective and we believe that this time should be extended so that this protection measure can indeed be implemented operationally and efficiently. There is also a new illegal form of behavior, which is a disguise to cover the identity and, above all, because we have witnessed many times, that the perpetrators of illegal behaviour and those most severe forms of illegal behavior were almost regularly masked, so that the video was not able to produce the expected results in terms of identifying the finding and sanctioning of the perpetrators of these most severe illegal behaviours that were inflicted with serious physical injury or the destruction of property of greater value. It is prohibited to enter the field of sports competition in an alcoholic state and to prohibit the sale of alcoholic beverages in the area of a sports facility. It is then also proposed that the press be given the opportunity to prohibit the maintenance of a sports competition if the sports facility is not equipped with the provisions of this law and if its unequipped may be the cause of a major breach of public order and peace or of larger forms of illegal behaviour. One of the new newspapers is also to prescribe the duties of officials of the organisers who lead the competition to temporarily or permanently interrupt sports competition when there was an illegal behaviour of viewers in greater scope during its maintenance. It was much easier before, and the organizers of the sport competition had never applied this measure, although in the opinion of the police, there were cases and situations when they were able to apply this measure. Therefore, such norms provide for greater responsibility and the obligation of the organiser to apply this measure. It is also prescribed that for reasons of security at the request of the police, the number of tickets that can be put on sale independently of the overall capacity of the sports facility to prevent illegal behaviour and ultimately and the suffering of people attending sports competitions is limited. The conditions for the involvement of security guards from security companies are strengthened. The organizer of the sports competition is given the opportunity to refuse to sell the ticket and take measures to prevent entry into the sports competition of the person available to know that she had previously misbehaved. And it is prescribed that 30% of people who perform redistributory work in sports competitions must be security guards, and must wear uniforms and have a security card and a work order. Since it has so far proved that the involvement of directors by non-skillers has been a very large problem in ensuring order and peace in sports competitions. Finally, the possibility of delivering data contained in the data collection on persons and events in sports competitions and other users who are obliged to implement certain obligations under this law is prescribed and these data can be exchanged and delivered to those entities who must engage in the prevention of riots in sport competitions. Therefore, this law provides for amendments and additions to the newspapers that concern all. And it concerns, above all, the organizers of sports competitions because we believe that organizers must bear the greatest responsibility. And we hope that this kind of change and supplementation will eventually cause new relations between the organizers of the security companies. Since relations have not been regulated between the organizers and the owner of the sports facility so far, there has been a transfer of responsibility between the owners of sports facilities and the organizers of sports competitions. We generally believe that the proposed law is good, that it will establish a number of orders primarily in the relations between sports players, that it will act both preventively and repressively against the hooligans who violate public order and peace and who cause the biggest problems and that the consistent application of this law will contribute to a better situation in sports competitions, less riots and better security for people who want to go to sports competitions and see competitions in peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55742	Thank you. Legislative committees? Internal policy and national security? Family, youth and sport? Human rights and the rights of national minorities? There's no interest. I'm opening a debate. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55743	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Sport as an activity and spectacles designs the life of a larger number of people, their lifestyle, their identity, certain patterns of behavior and values. In that sense, politics is also focused on what is happening around sports. If we want to live in a society whose fans will cheer in sports competitions, not smashing and wilding is the right time to raise awareness of the growing problem of violence at sports games. At the time of recession, when all unnecessary costs are cut when budgetary savings are carried out, it should be imagined over enormous economic damages resulting from the enormous costs of engagement of security services at matches due to the savagery of hooligans. To deal with the problems of various types of violence in the community is not only the work of competent authorities but society in general. Addressing this problem requires large-scale legal, cultural, economic and other social changes and initiatives. It is in such a comprehensive way that it is necessary to approach and address one of the long-lost types of violence, violence in sports competitions, mostly football. This type of violence faithfully depicts the state of the nation’s spirit and mutates every day into some new forms. Therefore, sport violence also requires a variety of preventive measures that are achieved through cooperation between experts from different areas of justice, police, education and sports, as well as through cooperation between sports clubs, fans' associations, local administrations and self-government, and the involvement of public figures to motivate or sensitise the entire population. Since one of the components of sport and cheerleading that sometimes ends in hooligan riots, it is recognised that the need for children and young people, future athletes and fans in a convenient way is reflected in non-sports and socially unacceptable behaviour in sports competitions, and to begin to systematically educate them on this issue. But so far, these activities have not produced the desired results. The admiration of fans at the Dinamo-Hajduk football game in Zagreb, which is the reason for the changes to this law, where one policeman and two fans were badly injured, was injured by 18 police officers and 18 fans, again raises the question of how to treat violent hoodlums in the cheerleading ranks. TV footage of the game shows burning firecrackers, tearing and throwing chairs on the ground, fighting with the police, one father running with fear with a five-year-old daughter to save her from the horrors. Police reported a total of 89 people, 65 Dinam and 25 visiting Hajduk fans, and 6 official vehicles, 2 buses and 2 trams were damaged before and after the game. 33-year-old police officer Christian Trocter, the hooligans broke out their eye with a firecracker. And who are those hooligans really? It is estimated to be 7% to 8% of the young population who are extremely confused and lost and needs professional help. It's actually a boomerang that young people return to us for what we've been missing all these years to do in education and value systems, so the young received some other valuable messages. We in the HSS are of the view that the amendments to the law should go in the direction of cheerleading rather than saving the living head that has been happening so far and to punish the hooligans, not ordinary citizens. This law proposes banning disguises in sports competitions to cover up identity and introduce a misapplication for all those who do, and we at the HSS Club think it's good. A zero tolerance rate is introduced on the alcohol of visitors to sports competitions, the sale of alcoholic beverages within sports facilities is prohibited, which we consider not to be good and I will explain later. The law introduces new crimes: participation in a fight or attack on viewers or other persons, organising violence in sports competitions, destroying things or assets, and disrespecting measures and bans. The losing statistics were mentioned by the secretary of state. They show an increase in all kinds of crimes and crimes, which is an indication that it is high time to deal with hooliganism. But the damage done to Croatia is far greater than those that can be measured by numbers because the clubs have so far paid a fine of 800 thousand euros for the incident of their fans. With the football team, it goes up to 2m euros. I want to say specifically what we believe is not good in this law and that it should be changed. No UEFA member has such a rigorous law. This law introduces zero tolerance for alcohol, which means that you can drive a car if you have 0.5% blood alcohol spill but you can't drink a glass of beer at the game when you watch your favorite club. Also, if you refuse alcohol, you will be punished by 2 to 15 thousand kuna. This guides us, when we read this law, that we are not actually directed against hooligans, but to direct ourselves against 98% of citizens who are quite normal, decent people who come to games, who drink a glass of beer and then sit back and watch the game and enjoy themselves. In most small stadiums such as Zapresic or Sisak or similar stadiums cafes have rents and pours drinks from which they earn both these cafes and of course earn stadiums because this rent, which is 3, 4000 euros per month or more, is used to maintain stadiums. Under this law, it won't be possible anymore. I'll mention an example of the Champions League where there was no incident. It was watched by 80,000 viewers, and their sponsor was a brewery. I'll also mention the Medveschak hockey club with which we're all proud of having achieved extraordinary results. They had more visits than all the football clubs combined, and their main sponsor was one brewery and there was no incident. By this law we tear down clubs, crash sponsorship contracts, crash VAT and attack ordinary citizens who drink a glass of beer or wine and do no accidents. No country in Europe has such a rigorous law. I have to say that under the current law, the MUP has the right to prohibit the alcohol spilling to an organiser who does not adhere to the rules and, therefore, that is already defined, so we believe that there was no need or reason to amend those provisions. If we look at UEFA's rules, the police intervene only when someone's life is at stake, not when they're throwing pyrotechnics. They solve it differently. When the UEFA pyrotechnics are thrown, he punishes stadiums and clubs. For example, I'm going to plastically explain what that would mean. This would mean that if at the Hajduk game in Split, Torcida was tossing pyrotechnics then Hajduk would be punished in a way that he could no longer play games in Split, but would have to play them in Zagreb and that means that then Hajduk, as a club, should have talks with his fans to stop doing so which would have an impact on other fan groups if he saw such an example. It's called general prevention in the world, and I don't understand why we haven't introduced such a general prevention here in our law. With this law, we're kind of pushing the police to figure it out with the citizens instead of suppressing the hooligans and we don't think that's a good way to go. If you remember the UEFA League game when Hajduk played against Bordeau, the Hajduk players brought the rooster to the game. Otherwise, that rooster was on the coat of arms of Bordeaus cut off his head and then Hajduk could not play more than a year on his stadium in Split. That was a long time ago, maybe ten years ago. This law, as well as the Croatian Football Federation Regulation, should regulate such issues, hence installing suspensions of stadiums and sanctions, rather than targeting ordinary citizens. Let's remember a recent situation that was pretty ugly with racist outbursts when the dinosaurs were roaring, the torcids were throwing bananas, insulting players. Such situations deserve punishment, and we saw on TV a coach who shrugged his shoulders and was surprised that journalists even asked him about it because he thought it was no big deal. In this law, too, the crime becomes an assault on a police officer, which has already been governed by the Penal Code that we read as follows. A thief who attacks a cop will have less punishment than some kid who attacks a cop at a game. I think the HSS Club also believes that this law should really be further developed and looked at all these aspects that I have warned through our observations. Perhaps the law did not need to be changed, since again through these amendments the English model by which the organizers, clubs, alliances, owners are responsible for security, while police responsibility is limited to security outside the stadium. The responsibility of clubs and alliances in law is not sufficiently highlighted, I have already said. Many point out that the rule should be that if organisers cannot guarantee security they must not play or can only be if the wrongdoers are removed from the stands. In the face of the problem of hooliganism, everyone should be caught with a general social consensus, especially the media and politics. We at the HSS Club believe that it is necessary to stop the practice of selective law enforcement and thus protect the failures of sports competition organizers, and especially those responsible for the organisation of sports events. The laws should be applied, so we already have the law but we have failed to apply some of its provisions. But we, too, at the HSS Club, feel that laws need to be passed for most citizens, not to pass laws according to some ideals, and then we bring most citizens into violation because it is impossible to enforce such laws at all. So we suggest that if other clubs also feel that there is still a need to talk about this law, that there is still a need to talk about this law, that it needs to be done, that this law is directed to another reading. Because we think that our goal really is to contain these violent behaviors of hooligans, but also to bring back to sports and clubs the level we should have in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55744	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55745	I thank Mr. President for his historical truth. So the "single" case wasn't against Bordeaus but against Tottenham 2:1 in Split, 1:0 in London. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55746	We're continuing with this agenda point that we started. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative of Shime Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55747	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here in the finals of the football world championship we pass the Law on the prevention of riots in sports or sports competitions. It might be better to pass this law on that occasion and on this occasion, unfortunately we are passing this law for something else, bringing it as a reaction to the events of May 1st, so as a reaction based on the original festival in Maksimir between Dinam and Hajduk. From experience when laws are passed in response to certain concrete events, they generally do not produce results. I'd like as I said, if not for the World Cup, that something else or some other event we've passed this kind of law. It seems to me that we have approached this problem one-dimensionally, in fact we have not seen a broader social context. If you look at this law, so these amendments that are proposed and if you look at the current law, as we now have, you will see de facto that these are purely repressive laws, from the first to the last article it can be called the classic police law. And this law isn't written according to the custom of the citizen, it's custom for the police. I'm not saying this shouldn't stand maybe a little different or an accent put on something else that's put into the Law to prevent riots on sports grounds, but for me and us at the SDP club is the problem of what's not in this law, and we hold that it should be in that law. So to carefully read this law, I do not think it can be called the Law to prevent riots on sports grounds, or competitions. In fact, this law should be called the Law on the Penalty of disorder and those causing riots on sports grounds, for the simple reason that there is no word in this law or no potential for prevention at all. So, the prevention is actually preventing riots. So I don't really understand why the Proposer always keeps reaching for this repressive story that at the same time does not see a wider social problem or a wider social dimension. You see this Law will not make any contribution to our clubs that go outside Croatia on preparations to ban the holding of friendly games. Simply because Croatian sport especially football carries a cross mess around the stadium in stadiums. So, what seems to me to be good, I think the HSS Club has proposed and we in the SDP would all-out support it, and that's that we're going to go into another reading because nothing's going to happen in two months. I don't understand why we're going through an emergency procedure. So this emergency procedure tells us that this is actually a reaction to the Hajduk-Dinamo game. I'm convinced there was no riot on May 1st that there wouldn't be any of this law, and it's troublesome the whole story. What about tomorrow or three months from now if there's another mess, and it's certain that we're going to change the law again, or now we're going to take advantage of the opportunity when we're going to make that change to make one more serious story. What story? First of all, organizers, administrations, athletes and especially fans. So, this law says a little hard not to say anything. What concerns me also when I read this Law so I combine it with what we now have, which is how this Law will apply. Well, it's very hard. Why? So when you see our stadium, if we're going to talk about football, and in the good part of the hall, not keeping in mind these newly built, they don't actually have the conditions. What does that mean? This means that we will ban not only lower league football games or handball games, but also a good part of the first leaguers. Another story that's very interesting, I'd actually be interested in one fact to measure this data that's been presented I mean the statistical data, how many people have been detained, how many people have been punished, etc., I just feel that the goal of this law is to arrest as many people as possible, to punish them, to keep them prisoner somewhere, I think that's the wrong goal. The goal should be that we have no disorder at all, or that we have no need for a repressive policy at all. What else should be kept in mind, this type of law de facto police assumes on themselves the overall responsibility for the goal and order of football and other sports competitions. I don't know if that's wise, for the simple reason, because it seems to me, so I'm going back to the old story of the administration, the organizers must be responsible. Here, I would ask the secretary of state to tell us, with all the riots from the lowest level of sports competition to the highest level, to tell us how many organizers, how many board members, presidents, coaches, football players, handball players, waterpolitans have been punished since April 2009, and we know it was. Water polo's a mess, but unfortunately there's something else in water polo, but we won't talk about it because it's not a topic. Actually, it's my association now. We could open a bigger story and that bigger story could be connoted like this. Unfortunately, sport is a very tailored media for politicians and politicians, give a comb to a little administration so you'll see how many politicians are sitting in which administrations, let's make them call those politicians responsible, and I won't talk about police officials who don't know if they're still, but they've been sitting in the administrations of different and especially football clubs for a long time. It's now an association generally on politics and sports. So that's what I'd like and I believe that we have time and that nothing important is going to happen, and that's to try to talk and try to get into this story of educators, sociologists, psychologists, so people who aren't just dealing with this part of the repressive system. It may also be good rules or not know what, how the application of this Law will actually be ensured. This is what happens to us, the police now and the police, along with the police, and the guards can't control the introduction of pyrotechnics into stadiums. How will they actually control whether someone is under the influence of alcohol or not? Does that mean anyone who enters the stadium has to blow into a closet to determine his blood alcohol? So we're always going back to the organizers whether, how is it possible that this pyrotechnics show up at those stadiums? And what I think is good, and to me, you know what my first association was, after the May 1st event this year. So, after everything that's happened, the police kept insisting they didn't make any mistakes. Look, I was born with an idea right away, and I was actually encouraged by that story that is not spoken of in Croatia, and it was less finished in all the countries in the environment, which is so-called. Civilian surveillance of police work. There's no way there were no failures, I'm going to give you at least three under the Police Act. At least three if you have to. Therefore, I can understand the situation, the tension, the adrenaline after the unfortunate wound of a police officer, but some people rightly asked if it had to be so. And now be careful, the police insist that there were no leaks, okay, if there weren't any leaks by the police, then only the hooligans are guilty, and then we actually solved the problem. So, it's no one's fault for May 1st, but that group that made the incident, that's impossible. Missed some pyrotechnics, missed some alcohol, etc. Until we start calling the right name we won't solve anything. And we have to break the illusion, I stress, that we will solve the riots on sports grounds exclusively by repression. Let's break the illusion of the British model, people talking about it that they don't know. Yes, they removed riots from several stadiums and several competitions that are actually out of place, but at a lower level of competition outside Britain the whole of England riots are still being solved. Therefore, we need to talk seriously about these things. So, there's a special story about stadiums, terrains, etc. our sports clubs at least the vast majority of them not only in football, but in the good part of the sports in Croatia are in so-called. transition. There are few of them among private sponsors, few of them privatized most of them are based on units of regional and local self-government and simply the whole situation reflects on this state. We simply say in this law the police can ban sporting events, so she could have done it by now. Here's my one question, why didn't you ban the game in Maximir on May 1st? That's the key question for me. And that was obvious what was going to happen, it was supposed to be banned. I assure you for the first time let's call them sports workers get a certain way signal to think seriously, make them responsible for the riots on sports grounds, the story will get serious. Here, I don't want to discuss the details, because in fact most of these proposals that are listed in this law we discussed in April last year, they were contained in that proposal and did not enter the final proposal. Here's where they're gonna come in, but I'm sure they're just like that they're not gonna solve the problem. Therefore, the SDP club will support this law, but we are not happy that there is nothing else in this law. So there's not a word about prevention, there's not a word about preventing riots, there's only a word about solving riots. And we ask the promoter to think again about going to another reading. Maybe we'll be smarter and maybe we'll come up with a part of this prevention story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55748	Thank you. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Vedran Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55749	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions with the Final Proposal of the Law. This proposal should be adopted by an urgent procedure, in order to understand why it is necessary to be up-to-date in the adoption of amendments and additions, it is necessary to remind itself of the time when this law has been adopted. The law was passed in July 2003, however, it was not mandatory to report to the police before or during the sport competition when implementing the law or safeguard measure. As a result, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruptions in Sports Competitions was adopted in June 2006. These amendments to the law have been prescribed a mechanism for implementing safeguard measures, and police have been given the authority to establish and manage a database of offenders' data and events in sport competitions, as well as for international exchanges of such data. Such changes to the law have led to a reduction in the stadium incidents, but another problem has occurred, as there has been an increase in the number of incidents in the direction of the fans' journey and frequent incidents by Croatian fans at visiting matches abroad. There have been new changes and additions to the Law to prevent riots in sports competitions that took place in April 2009. Three types of protective measures were introduced at that time. First, a ban on attending certain sports competitions in the Republic of Croatia with the obligation to report to the police station. Second, a ban on attending certain sports competitions in the territory of the Republic of Croatia with the obligation to stay at the police station. Third, a ban on going to certain sports competitions abroad involving Croatian teams or clubs with a obligation to report to the police station. Since the entry into force of these latest amendments of the law, a thousand 652 persons have been detained from April 2009 to May 2010, and an indictment has been filed against a thousand 380 persons. During that incomplete year in riots during sports events, as well as on arrival and departure from these same sports events, dozens of fans and police officers were injured and large material damage was done on railway cars, buses, personal vehicles, as well as on official vehicles of the Ministry of the Interior. Also, according to the provisions of the laws, the owners or users of sports facilities should have equipped the same facilities with ticket control and counting within one year of the entry into force, and more importantly, the introduction of video surveillance with the ability to print and store recorded records. Unfortunately, in real terms, it has been found that these facilities are not yet equipped according to the law. It has also been observed that infringements of their own power solutions which have been imposed on offenders by safeguard measures do not provide national sports alliances, and thus neither alliances nor clubs implement the obligations laid down by law. The latest events in sports competitions, and in particular this refers to a match between the NK dunes and HNK Hajduk, have shown that the law did not effectively act on a particular group of fans, and we see that clubs are also banned from playing even friendly games abroad because of the fear of rioting fans of our clubs. Here's an example of Dinah's last preparations, that practically they have to play friendly games in illegal play. In view of the above, the promoter has approached the development and complementarity of laws that require the introduction of zero tolerance to the alcoholism of visitors to sports competitions, the ban on the sale of alcoholic beverages in the area of a sports facility, giving the possibility to police to prohibit the maintenance of a sports competition unless the sports facility is equipped according to the provisions of this law. The obligation to hand over travel documents with an existing protective measure prohibiting going to a sports competition abroad and introducing the law of criminal offences in such a way that some of the more difficult forms of illegal conduct are now described as criminal offences. Those new offences have been introduced by Article 31 of the participation in a fight or attack on viewers or other persons, Article 31b of the organisation of violence in sports competitions, Article 31c of the destruction of goods or property in sports competitions and Article 31d of non-compliance with measures and prohibitions. We must say that these new criminal provisions are quite rigorous. Therefore, by respecting and accepting the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions, we would like to stress that we accept the appropriate application of repressive measures against persons of deviant behaviour. We also believe that, no matter how effective they are, the restitution of discipline must be applied with the help of the timely education that starts in the family, continues in kindergartens, schools, religious institutions, sports and political associations that are sometimes powerless and ineffective. It should be pointed out that this is an unquestionably global problem to be constantly warned about, and state and sports institutions should make a maximum contribution to overcoming an extreme delinquent that needs to be systematically eradicated in one part of the fans. The following example of schools around the world in which volunteering is a compulsory practice and even a condition for attending the prom is considered necessary to implement this practice with us. By including students in primary and secondary schools in designed humanitarian programmes, they will certainly encourage the legality of normal education, thus also learning compassion with different members of society, then showing responsibility, concern and care in communicating with people from their family or a wider mile. Developing the ability to understand and enjoy other people's problems, young people shape better relationships, develop altruism and reduce to a sufficient extent the egotistical component and unfavourably inappropriate behavior in terms of cruelty, aggression or national and religious intolerance. Analoglyzes with the statement of freedom we point out that the institution of discipline can also be applied to persons who have sinned about the law. Excluding the application of legal criminal measures can be effective, but if persons rationally conscious of their inappropriate behaviour, the relapse will be so much smaller. It may be necessary to consider carrying out compulsory work for the common good where the punishments would have the opportunity to show understanding and sacrifice of the equipment to the rooms in need. Finally, the applicant considers that these amendments and additions will affect the perpetrators and deter them from further doing so. He also wants to influence the organizers of sports events clubs and alliances, as well as the owners and users of sports facilities, given the fact that the deadlines for equipping sports facilities are the same. In order to bring about more quality changes and additions to the HDZ Club, it supports the HSS proposal to refer this bill to a second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55750	Thank you. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55751	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As the predecessors said, this Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions was brought to the Croatian Parliament in 2003. So it's been seven years, and unfortunately in those seven years, we're going to the third time for the correctional exam. Third time. When we were changing and supplementing the law last year in April, we said that if we introduced new safeguards we would probably be far more effective so just let me read what measures were introduced in April last year. It is a ban on attending certain sports competitions by offenders with an obligation to report to a police station or even with an obligation to stay at a police station. Then ban on going to certain sports competitions abroad, then increasing fines and jails. So these were the basic measures we've come up with. My colleagues and colleagues, let's face it, let's say what we've achieved, what the results of these measures are. The results were almost gone. Now we have to wonder why these measures have not yielded any results. I'll do something different to read the numbers that were delivered to us here. My colleagues and colleagues, look. The police have done their job quite correctly. The police have been tracking what's going on in and around the field and brought in 1652 people in the past year. 200 of them have been released, but they have rightly filed an indictment for 1380 offenders. I repeat, 1380. We must, colleagues and colleagues, now ask how many were punished for what they did, endangering other viewers, destroying property. Infringement courts punished 121 persons by safeguarding measures, thus giving protection measures. That, colleagues and colleagues, is only 8.5% of those against whom the indictment was filed. My colleagues and colleagues, only 95 misdemeanors, that's less than 6% fined and only 1% of them got paroled in prison. In total, it's 15%. It's sad. So far, we have had the mechanism to put an end to them, but not all have done their part of the work the way it was meant to be done. The police here are absolutely the least guilty. And the HNS Club, HSU, will support this law solely because police believe this law will make their job easier. Other subjects and courts, and clubs and alliances absolutely don't deserve a passing grade. Furthermore, the technical equipment the clubs needed to provide from video surveillance, from the map reader. You can know today at any moment who's at your stadium by your name and name if you want, if you want. That's not done. Go on. Infringement courts and this small number of people for whom they have taken certain measures have not practically informed anyone about this, or sports alliances. Sports alliances normally can't bring that information down to clubs and clubs can't do anything about it because they don't know who's being punished by what measure. So that's sad. The absolute lack of coordination between those carriers that should have prevented these riots, the absolute lack of coordination. What the promoter now feels is that we can do to help new repressive measures to make the situation better tomorrow than it is today. They suggest that we prescribe a new form of illegal disguise behavior. They suggest that zero tolerance be introduced to alcoholism. They're proposing a ban on selling alcoholic beverages in sports facilities. They suggest a precision of the organizer's obligations. They suggest giving the police the opportunity to ban sports competitions, in which cases the organiser will have to do so. They suggest that the forms of illegal conduct are now listed as criminal, or criminal, acts. We agree. They propose the introduction of a ban on attending sports competitions based on knowledge of earlier illegal behaviours. It's okay. One who repeats these offences must surely be punished absolutely by increasingly severe and more severe clear, or by measures of monetary or prison penalties. They suggest that travel documents be taken away from those who could potentially create riots abroad. They're proposing an increase in fines and prison sentences. They suggest that data and other users be delivered in order to prevent the entry of the wrongdoers into sports competitions. Notice and colleagues have said before me a part of these measures we have already been able to do with a better organization and do it ourselves. But we are very careful at the club HNS, HSU read this bill and ask the promoter to help us answer our questions. Here I'll wait until the secretary of state is finished, because we'd like to help you this time just so the police don't find a hole in the law or that I can interpret certain words in a way that the results are zero again. Come on, please, let's go in order. The fifth page, Article 3(4), reads: "When there was an illegal behaviour of viewers in a larger range during the sport competition." We underline that in a larger volume. What does it mean in greater scale? Who's going to determine what's in the larger range? Is there going to be one thing for a lawyer, and for a court of law or something else in the police? So perhaps we should see how to regulate it. Next, Article 4 of that article on page 5, as requested by the police, and for reasons of security, the organiser is obliged to limit the number of tickets to be sold to a number less than the total capacity of sports facilities. What does a smaller one mean? One ticket less, one percent less, three percent less. And there it should be careful and even for some time over a few years to try eventually and avoid the possibility of stadiums being overcrowded in any way and for that reason to be clear. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. page 7th and fifth verse says: "There has been damage or destruction of other people's property of greater value. Once again, the greater the value, the greater the value. Will it be worth so much and so many thousand kunas to you and me a whole other number? The same shall apply to Article 31c. I request this on purpose. I know there are other places to interpret, but we need to be clear here what you and I are defending tomorrow. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Somewhere in the middle of page 4. "A person who has been given the safeguard measure referred to in Article 32(1) of subparagraph 3 of this Act shall be liable no later than half an hour before the start of a particular sports competition." Now a certain sports competition. Is that based on that verdict earlier, because it can be interpreted again in various ways. Why do I say that? For you will now see page 9, on page 9, article 15, this article, for example, pages 34a. You have a fourth, fifth and sixth verse in the first section, I read, "You can impose a ban on attending certain sports competitions or banning attending sports competitions." So you also have a variant of a certain sports competition and a ban on attending sports competitions. And in the next section of point 2, you have at the end "to report to an on-call police officer and to inform him of the address he will be at during a certain sports competition. No more bans on attending sports competitions are mentioned, this is plural. So, a little synchronise the first and second sections, so that they know exactly what this applies to so that lawyers don't find room to get their protégés here again. The page 10 of Article 20 at the end of the page and that article under point 3 reads: The fine of 5 to 50000 kn or the sentence of at least 30 to 60 days will be fined by a natural person who is two or more times the date of the infringement within two years of being found guilty of the offence referred to in this Article. In fact, repeaters, we think that in our club we should be punished drastically. We see here that after two years, red cardboard is deleted. We're not sure we should do this, we're not sure, we're not sure that two years after which we're going to say well, gentlemen, you've done yours, we're erasing the red charts, we're going from the beginning. That's not a good message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55752	HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55753	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here it is with my predecessors quite well-analyzed by this bill, and it is clear that this is one sum, one sum of repressive measures, so as someone said this would be the law, about actually punishing riots in sports competitions, here with a final bill, or another reading as someone here suggests. When we look at everything that's written here, it seems to me, even though I'm not clearly a fan of disorder, hooliganism and other things, that we could slowly turn the stadiums into a theater, and I don't think it's the goal of the promoter that stadiums that are different or their purpose is something different than theaters, that they really are like theaters. I have to say that stadiums and stadium behavior actually maintains a state of society, and we have to consider that. Someone here talked about egoism, not altruism, someone talked about the lack of pedagogical measures starting or the measures needed, which should be implemented in kindergarten education, so school age, etc., teaching people altruism rather than egoism or hedonism, sometimes it's hard to say, in a situation like this when in fact examples of society for such, we have very little for such altruism. And when examples of egoism are hated, and stadiums have actually become something else than before. The rich used to come to the stadiums to watch football players, mostly amateurs, not to say more harshly to the poor girl who played. It's the other way around today. Today, those who play are mostly rich people, and those who come to the stadiums are exactly the opposite. Says one medically better prevented than treated. So these are the medical measures, these are measures when there's actually an incident, and the consequences that sometimes are, here's the case with severe bodily injury, and the mass of them came with minor bodily injuries according to the qualification of bodily injuries, so to prevent, not treat. How to prevent it? It is very little in the bill of this law or in the explanation of the measure that we would actually prevent and change the behavior and that violence that is happening in our stadiums. Is it really since the occasion of the Dinamo-Hajduk game is in Zagreb on May 1st, can't we really convince our people, to tell Croatian people from the south and north that they are not to say one thing and that if Dinamo plays with a foreign club or Hajduk that someone is rooting for foreigners? So how far are we gonna go? So can we bring these people in and talk to them? Is it possible in some way to influence them, not to act like one? That the enemy groups weren't blue, they were something that was one. To which it is in order to separate these young people, to indoctrinate them, to hate each other, to have events not only at games, but during the tourist season when someone is wearing some kind of dress Dinamov somewhere in a place in Dalmatia, on an island or where. That's what he's got. No competition. Hatred by belongings of some kind of sportsman. Now, at the end of the day, a little bit about alone, about the inaccuracies that Mr. Doric has seen well in his presentation, and in particular, I would like to point out something that is here to say collegely that, therefore, the police may, in article 9, so the police, the last order of the police may prohibit the maintenance of the sport competition. You got it. You got it. But he doesn't have to and believe me, I'm afraid he never will. That hasn't happened yet. Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary of State? The police never banned it, even though it says it can. Just for what we are, being in clubs and some political politicians to say elite or some tycoons, etc. This could never have been realized, it never happened in Croatia. Believe me, if it had happened once, twice, maybe something would have changed, or maybe someone would have imagined it. In addition, Article 8 states to prohibit access to a sports facility by a person who is in an alcoholic state. So will the stadiums at 8, 9, 10, how many entrances there's gonna be when the Dreger machines and people blow up in that crowd and the blizzard that happens when they go in, if someone went to the game, they know exactly what a mess it is when 20 thousand people go into the I don't know 5, 10, 15 entrances. Will someone be authorized to legitimize, as they say, or take the identity of someone who enters the stadium to see if it's a person who's been banned from early crimes, is that the person who's banned from access to the stadium? And this in Article 13 states that the organizer of a sports competition or contract distributor will refuse to sell or assign a ticket for a particular competition to the person he has available for knowledge that he previously misbehaved, that he will take measures to prevent access to the space of sports... So that cashier who sells the ticket, whether he's going to ask for everyone's ID to see if that's who's on the list of unwanted, unsuspecting persons who can't access it because of earlier sports violations. [[You don't understand.]] How do you mean, how do you plan to do that? How do we apply this law? And as someone said, it seems to me here from Mr. Lucin, a little bit of this law is inapplicable. Or we'll go in from 8:00 in the morning, and the game at 5:00 in the afternoon. It doesn't go any different. And whoever authorized the cashier to legitimize the person who... he can't do that, then the police have to sell tickets, the police have the right to ask for ID. He says, alcoholic state, come on, you'll say, maybe doubt, we won't test everything for alcohol, we'll test for doubt. Sometimes even doctors can't recognize the alcoholic state, let alone some layman who's at the front desk, etc. And the doctor hardly recognizes it particularly if it is so-called. impregnable state from 0.5 to 1.0 promil. And when they bring my client to the infirmary from the ambulance, it's hard to determine if 0.6 is hard to determine that he's in a drinking state, excellently buying papers off the floor, walking straight on the line, etc. Clearly, since I am in our stadiums, there is no violence like this, because these are all young people, some people remain disabled forever. They're experiencing severe trauma, but really turning the stadium into a theater, and that doesn't make sense. Let's start in prevention, start in prevention, start in education, take pedagogical measures to those young people, why don't we show a film about the consequences that are on public television, as you're doing an excellent action on traffic safety, so you've got jumbo posters with warnings for cyclists, etc., which is why we don't go broadly into action so that young people in various ways, media, we also have this internet to show, the terrible consequences of such riots on our sports facilities, stadiums. Perhaps, not perhaps, but I believe that we would achieve some result, that these young people would imagine and still change their way of acting. Like other clubs and HDSSB, for a second reading, with a reference or recommendation that these inaccuracies, which I would not repeat, which Mr Doric spoke of, are documents in the text itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55754	Thank you. At 12.37, it was time to report a ten-minute debate, an individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55755	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This is the fourth time I have a chance to talk about the same problem. And I remember the debate in the first amendment to the law when I told State Secretary Col. Buconjic after an intervention in an article that speaks of police powers that during the first major riot at the football stadium I would request his or her minister's resignation, if it comes to him, and the police did not use the power to interrupt the game or prohibit maintenance. This happened according to the Law on 1 May of this year, and apparently the riots in Maksimir were a reason to write these changes and when I saw in the media that the Government once again proposed a tightening of sanctions believe me that I expected you to propose article 1 in Zagreb and Split police introduce a heavy cavalry, when playing in Split in Luka will be the gunner Petar Krešimir IV. And in Zagreb, we will borrow from Slovenians Pysterae because MiGs do not fly, and we will maintain order for Pysters. One thing and the other, no expansion of the police's powers to bring criminal judges to stadiums and drastic punishments will solve the problem we face, i.e. only the spread of police powers and repression will not solve the problem. And it's not sports stadium riots. It's football stadiums. Not everyone. For the first time, the proposer in the reason and context of the Law writes that football is a problem. In some other sports, for years that have far more viewers, we have witnessed that a sport event can be organised without riots, without Bengali, firecrackers, torches, cavalry, and masquerade because watching the First Football League games in Croatia always seems to me to have, especially this high-risk game in stadiums there are more monks and police officers than viewers and there are riots again. In these Amendments, you have a provision once again when during the sport competition there has been an illegal behaviour of the viewers in a larger volume, official, the organisers who lead the competition are obliged to suspend the sport competition temporarily or permanently. In different variations, these provisions are entered in the Law. But when you mentioned May 1st and the game Dinamo and Hajduk, were there no conditions for the end of the game in the current law? Mr. Secretary of State seems to me that under the current law of May 1st, the police were authorized to order an organizer to terminate the game. Not only that, and by the rules of the Sports League, the delegates of the game and the main judge of the game could have interrupted the game. But it was simple about the opportunite, given the "meaning" of the game, no one wanted to make a decision and take the risk of breaking up such a game and forcing the football alliance to repeat it so long as it didn't go without a riot and that's the problem. There's no one brave enough in the police or in the football league, Dinam and Hajduk to order an end to the game when riots begin. But it is tolerated, and what sanctions are given to the organizer of the match by the Croatian Football Federation, or the Association of First Leagues, because when we mention the Croatian Football Federation and the responsibility of the Alliance for Sports Disorders, then the president of the Football Federation is being rewarded by any responsibility because they have nothing to do with it. They're not in that movie, they have nothing to do, they have no authority, it's all an association.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55756	Excuse me, Mr. Representative, just a few seconds. Okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55757	Go ahead, you're the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55758	I would like to welcome here Mr. Prime Minister who has recognised us, the Foreign Minister of Iceland, Mr. Össur Scarphédinsson, who is headed by the delegation of our friendly and first country, who has recognised us Iceland. ... Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Representative, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55759	All right, Mr. President, maybe they can give us some advice on how to handle sports hooligans. So we tighten the laws, give more authority to the police, lift the fines, not solve the problem. So, Mr. Secretary of State, what I keep telling you is the fourth time. So long as the responsibility for the state of football stadiums will not be on the Sports Federation and the Croatian Olympic Committee, so long as they are not sanctioned by the clubs, but not by the authorities, police and justice, but by the sports alliance, the football alliance, so long as they are not given a ban on playing in front of the audience, so long as they do not lose money on the competition bans and so long as you don't touch the organisational structure of those who manage these alliances and clubs, they will for so long be able to move more fans to the stadiums, so long they will be able to enter the Bengals, the firecrackers as if they are matches, so long they will be able to mask and cause riots, and so long you will send more cops, cavalry, pirates and cannoners than any viewers. It's not a criticism to you, because it's not your portfolio. It is a criticism of which the Law on Sports is resolute, which, even after all warnings, does not have the political courage to propose a new law and enter into it the responsibility of sports alliances on what is happening. They traveled to Great Britain, I don't know if you were with them, Mrs. Adlesic... She went somewhere a year ago to ask the English. She's back home to an even bigger Englishman. Where we're from experience, you can see there's no fence around the playground and there's no riots. We have fences and riots. And there are fewer monks and cops there than we do those who tear the cards apart. They have no riots again, we have riots. The cause of the problem, the causes of the problem are clubs and club management and politicians sitting in the leaderships of the football alliance, who simply glare and pretend to see nothing, know nothing and hear nothing. Make them responsible so long as they don't ban the maintenance of such... until they start subtracting points for riots, until they're out of the league, you won't do anything. Just spend your budget money, harass your people, have to work overtime. Zagreb looks like there's been a new rebellion and it's all the same again. So, that 2003 law on sanctioning the sports alliance would be enough. May 1st was a mess, the game wasn't broken. Why didn't the May 1st police ask for an end to the game in Maxime, Mr. Secretary? Why didn't the police ask for an end to the game, when the Alliance and the club didn't have any political courage? Who were you afraid of in the police force?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55760	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go. You say the lines. Well, if they were replicas, then we'll do it in replicas. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55761	I agree with your finding that only the spread of police powers will not solve the problem of violence. If there's anything safe, that's for sure. Our society is like that so-called. He's threatening the pressure pot. You've got valves. One of those valves is these stadiums where people's dissatisfaction is empty. It's not just a Croatian phenomenon. When we talk about violence, then it should be seen wider. And in England, it wasn't solved as it is often said here, so violence just got out of the stadium to some other positions around the stadium. The problem of violence, dissatisfaction, the problem of youth violence is related to some deeper processes in society. And until we realize that we cannot solve this problem by increasing the repression of those who eventually create riots in stadiums without realizing that in society there is one deep dissatisfaction of young generations or part of those who participate most in the audience at such sports events we will not solve anything. That is why this House needs a broader conversation on violence in Croatian society as an inadequate response to daily violence, on the existential needs of people in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55762	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55763	A fellow Jurjevic in the lowest leagues of the competition when the game comes to an end because of the audience's behaviour, local football alliances take points away from the club. That's normal. How is it not possible to apply this in 1. Croatian football league? What did they do in the basketball league? What did the water polo alliance do? What have they done in the handball alliance so that they can normally hold sports events without savagery? Have they seen anyone through their fingers during the slightest incident or have they sanctioned such behavior? Or the other one. How come the only football alliance leaves first care for the first league of the association or the first league team... He calls, washes his hands of everything and everyone is powerless. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What do you think just in the first case six points minus and 10 games without a viewer? Then after that, would a single Bengali enter the stadium? Then would those same presidents or vice presidents of the clubs strut in front of the cameras, give me no dirty statements, would you then have to have 500 cops at the football stadium?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55764	And Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55765	Vice President. I mean, I think we live in a few countries in this country by a lot of things. My colleague actually led me to an example. That unsatisfactory part I'm only going to bring up at the end. He mentioned basketball. The basketball alliance and the association sanction a roll of toilet paper on the ground. A sanctioning in the absence of an anthem for the performance or failure of the device if it was possible that the moment was partly more forceful. But what about the police? Police for the Zabok Basketball Club estimate how many measures they will need to take and determine that they should follow the guest team from the tollhouses, twice to 10 km, that it takes so many intervention and so many general police officers. Nothing's ever happened, we've never beaten anyone, there's never been a game break, there could've been raised tones, but there's no bigger problems. But there is another problem. It is not done everywhere in Croatia. After that comes the invoice of the basketball club from the MUP, 60 for the intervention by hour and 40 kuna per general policeman. I'm asking the question of who are the taxpayers paying for. That's unacceptable to me. And in the second line, I'm going to use this break-up problem. The main problem is the bookies. Gentlemen, the first league interrupted the game that means that several million euros will be less spinning and money is always at stake, not legal letter and law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55766	E ideals, ideals. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55767	You said ideals? Vice President, it's not ideals. It's hunting. It's sports money. That's why we don't have a line That's an interesting suggestion. [[And that's sad.]] What do you think it would be like if every other week Mom sent me a invoice for those 500 cops two days ago, two days after the game, to caricate the thing to the end. And secondly, how many Dinams and Hajduks are there? How many Dinams do we have? When selling players is one, when buying another, when not paying a third tax. And the Sport Act doesn't recognize that problem. I want to believe, Mr. Secretary of State, that you will still answer my question why the May 1st police didn't break up the game in Maxime.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55768	And Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55769	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unlike my fellow Lesars, I attended an amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, but I remember calling it the solemn lodges that were then well-filled with ministers and State Secretarys when it was represented by that law. So there was the Deputy Prime Minister, there was a minister of justice, there was a minister in the ministry that had a sport under it, they were from the Ministry of the Interior, and the whole line there was filled. However, during a public debate that preceded the debate in Parliament, Vice-President Adlesic received, the media beat her with what former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher had previously said, "the steel lady" because the first announcement of that law was quite harsh and then under public pressure, under the pressure of beer producers or alcoholic beverages, under the pressure of various other stakeholders, and the provisions slowly and slowly became lighter and lighter and even lighter, and finally the steel was not so hard anymore. Now the lesson is clearly learned, and no strong announcements are given, nor does it appear before the Parliament in such a law. Obviously that's not so interesting anymore. However, Croatian politicians are not the only politicians who love to get involved in sports from time to time. I mean, it's football now. We have two recent cases. So, after the French team dropped out, the French president ordered his ministry to check how money was spent in the Football Union, and President Nigeria decided that his team would no longer compete for two years until the ball was stabilised and therefore not in these qualifications for the African Cup of Nations 2012. We also have... I don't know about North Korea, they don't come up with information about it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have several examples, therefore, of moving away a little from Hajduk and Dinam because obviously the main intensities of this law are preventing riots at the Games of Hajduk and Dinam because everyone else are more or less negligible, I think who knows, they might appear. So one example of how many, in fact, several examples of how emotionally fans experience the bad results of their club or team. I'll list some. So, a 29-year-old Arsenal fan from Nairobi, Kenya, committed suicide after Arsenal dropped out of Manchester United in the Champions League semifinal. However, he was in an alcoholic state and had a lot to drink, according to portals. After Brazil dropped out of the 2010 World Cup, an 18-year-old in Haiti jumped under a car. In 1994, a fan killed a Colombian national team player Escobar because he scored the World Cup in the United States. So 15 years later, the reverse thing happened, one centurforion of Colombian Junior de Barranquille killed the fan with a gun because he resented him for not winning the title. In an agreed match between Partizan fans and Vojvodina in Serbia in 2008, one Vojvodina fan was killed. We also have an example of neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, so on the occasion of the game, a Sarajevo fan died before the match. And, of course, the biggest accident to be remembered, which I managed to get to, so in 1985 in Brussels at the finals of the league, was then a cup of Liverpool Juventus champions 39 people died. At least a 17-year-old cheerleader, the oldest cheerleader also 58 years old. They say the riot in Brussels was the revenge of Liverpool fans because a year earlier in the finals of the champion cup in Rome was beaten by Italian fans, that the revenge was planned for a long time. So we have these individual cases, too, to say the emotional nature, and we have these organized ones. We have a problem with these organized. Among the two clubs, the strongest rivalry is the Greek Athens clubs of Olympiakas and Panathinaikos and in any sport that these two clubs encounter riots including women's volleyball. So I believe that if the problem in the football competitions were solved in Croatia, maybe there would be a way for cheerleading groups to conflict in other sports as well. How big that hatred proves that at the water polo game these two clubs fans tried to throw an electric light into the pool on fire. What would that have to do with the water polo players in the pool? So the electric shock can only be imagined. It's the police and the people from the bench of those clubs barely stopped. What do you do? Most of the time, people follow sports under elevated emotions, especially from their favorite clubs, and especially football and the fact is that the problem is, say, at football matches when the sound of vuvuzela interferes with the normal game tracking, then the tone decreases. But for some scandals that would be better if the tone was reduced then, the tone didn't shrink. In February 2009, a football player set the torch on fire after the game, and the club or club leaders tried to find the easy circumstances that the offender would find instead of actually looking for difficult circumstances. And that's all that affects fans. He says when they can, so can we. An example is given. Now, as far as politicians are concerned. Many sports alliances include politicians, our fellow representatives, local executives or executive officials and some sports alliances despite alleged signs of risky competitions, despite regional leagues with countries where the clubs of the countries to which we were at war until 15 years ago are not even in the regional basketball league that Mr. Hanzek spoke, nor in the regional water polo league, and in the football league there is. For what? My opinion is simply that there is no loop to solve this problem. It's not about you sitting there, it's about those who were last time, and now they're gone, and that the problem can only be untangled if there's a loop. Because the problem is in bookies, the problem is in a large amount of money that's spinning. Or it's simply a fear of doing something about it, so this kind of fire action after every riot changes several provisions of the law. In his debate, counterpart Grubisic cited an example of therefore conscious cheerleading for foreign clubs. So, I guess it's about fans from the south playing Dinamo in Europe and fans from the north playing Hajduk in Europe. This is therefore an opportunity to make it clear that both Hajduk and Dinam and Sibenik and Cibalija have a higher value for players, even if Mamic did not pay any taxes for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55770	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55771	Thank you very much. Well, actually, my basic thesis would be my next colleague, Bauk, it's about us getting quality law on this subject for the first time when we're discussing him for some kind of incident, some sort of event, some kind of accounting. I'll remind you. The first law since 2003 has not been written by the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Education wrote. I'm not even saying it's good, but I'm saying it'll probably be good when those two ministries and someone else sit down and make one whole law. So I think it would be necessary for business procedures, etc. that I don't elaborate on it now, that the government can allow us to add some of its amendments, that something, if it accepts the initiative to go to another reading, to talk about prevention. Because if we go with this proposal to a second reading again from prevention in view of the Rules of Procedure, we will not be able to talk because we cannot change those articles that are not mentioned in the proposal. So, it's simply that it's not good that the police themselves bring solutions, that the police take on this difficult burden to solve the problem. You can't actually, this problem can't be solved by horses or water cannons or electric sticks. This can only be solved by persistent social work and by putting all the dice in place especially when it comes to sports in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55772	And a reply to the replica, Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55773	Every time we discuss the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs, we discuss it after an incident. It's not the only case of that law, though. So we change the laws in five months two, three times. It's now become a practice. So I don't see why fans and cheerleader riots would be excluded. In fact, that's how this government works, and that's why we're in the state we are. What counterpart Lesar mentioned, therefore, is that the ministry in charge of sport is dealing with it, and some other state administration bodies are also on the verge of hoping that the second reading will be something better, that the debate will be more comprehensive. Because my feeling is that they've actually put everything on the back of Secretary of State Buconjic and the MUP, and that's how they approach this problem. And of course, I hope it won't be as long before the second reading of this law is as long as it takes for the residence law, which is the same in the jurisdiction of the MUP. Just to remind you it's six months out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55774	Mr. Representative Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55775	Honorable Vice President, distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. We've heard a lot about the law that was passed in 2003. And I would agree with the majority's finding that it's prevention that should be in the first place. And when we talk about the prevention of violence on sports grounds, we should first of all be aware of the fact that it is happening, that prevention of these types of behavior should be carried out in a way that the effort in this regard reaches all segments of society. So the prevention of violence does not make sense if it is singled out, fragmented, or in other words, it is important to promote the active participation of everyone to call them interested parties from sports alliances that are often mentioned here, sports organisations, officials, viewers, trainers, players, educational and educational institutions, families, but also the media. The media should set a general perspective for isolated incidents, and such unsports behaviour, not for such incidents to be... i.e. the top theme of the event. [[You don't understand.]] This means that violence in sports that is destructive and counterproductive should be opposed to all of the social mechanisms in which each small wheel is equally important in countering negative phenomena. Here I would stress the need for education and information and parents and educational institutions on my own role and sharing responsibilities with all other factors at social and state level. No country can find an ideal solution to combat hooliganism and violence in sport, but we can promote active participation in the prevention of the same, and apply... The implementation of laws and codes of conduct which must be clearly formulated and clearly identify potential penalties for offenders, i.e. infringements. [[You don't understand.]] In line with this as a framework for solving problems, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruptions in Sports Competitions. First, because of the difficulties encountered during the implementation of the law, the consequences of the implementation, i.e. the enforcement of a protective measure prohibiting the presence in certain sports competitions at the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior in 2006, amendments and additions to the law as a written mechanism for the implementation of safeguards were adopted, as well as the issues of improvement of safety at sporting events, and the police also received authority for... and keeping a database of offenders and events in sports competitions, as well as for international exchanges of the same data. [[You don't understand.]] These changes to the law have led to a decrease in the stadium incidents, but there has been an increase in the number of incidents in the direction of the fans' journey, precisely these agreed fights, and frequent incidents by Croatian fans at visiting matches abroad. Due to riots committed abroad by Croatian fans, new safeguards have been approached, such as the ban on attending certain sports competitions in the Republic of Croatia with the obligation to report to the police station, the ban on attending certain competitions in the Republic of Croatia with the obligation to stay at the police station and the ban on attending certain sports competitions abroad involving Croatian teams and sports clubs, with the obligation to report to the police station. After the event at the match between Dinam and Hajduk, this year in Zagreb, it proved that the law failed to prevent the riots of certain groups of fans, resulting in numerous serious and easier injuries, breaking, destruction of property and the like. With regard to the above, the Proposer approached the draft of these amendments and the addition of the law, and as we had the opportunity to hear suggested a whole series of amendments and additions to the law. The promoter, of course, believes that they will have a more effective impact on the perpetrators of illegal behaviour in sports competitions, and will deter them from further doing the same, as well as on the preventive actions of others not to act against the law. It would also like to influence sports competition organizers with regard to meeting their obligations and responsibilities, as well as the owners and users of sports facilities, given the fact that the deadlines for equipping sports facilities have expired. This is very important to highlight the financial, financial situation in certain clubs which mainly worry about such residences, halls, or stadiums, and that is probably one of the main reasons for delays and failure to meet the necessary conditions regarding these obligations related to the equipment of stadiums. Violence in sport is a question that needs to be kept under constant control, and it is necessary to develop new far-reaching strategies, if necessary, which supports this bill. Sport can inspire the best and worst in people, we need to ensure that it fully breaks its positive potential, among which I highlight important social and economic roles. Sport can also strengthen links within society and act as a catalyst for social inclusion, and I hope that with this and the completed bill and plan of action we can make significant progress in preventing and reducing all kinds of violence in sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55776	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I believe that we in Croatia have good work of sports associations and alliances regardless of what level it is a word, good work of sports schools, well-educated and educated staff coming from the Faculty of Kinesiology, good work and leadership of the Croatian Olympic Board of the Roof Association, and I hope for future good work of the National Sports Council. Sports pedagogues say that sports culture is part of a man's general culture, a citizen, regardless of whether he is engaged in sports activities or has any knowledge in the field of sports. But something we haven't had in years, and that's what we should finally start working on, which is a cheerleading culture and a cheerleading culture, no one's ever dealt with that group before, and I think it's high time that all of this I've listed, which is worth it in sports not to ruin, not to work with fans in the future. There are bright examples, Cibalia Vinkovci, Ultrasi, in the last two, three years never made any mess in Vinkovci or outside, and this is a sign that the club Cibalia from Vinkovci, that the community, the city, the county, is working with its registered fan group, which should also be an example for other clubs regardless of what kind of sport it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55778	Thank you. And Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55779	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a lot we've heard today in the debate on the amendment proposal and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbation in Sports Competitions. I will immediately say that although this is the third amendment to the law and I myself participated, that is, everyone here last year when there were other amendments and additions to this law, and it is obvious that the existing provisions of the Law did not effectively act on a particular group of fans who, despite previous legal requirements, continued to act against the law. Some said, and they resented it, the Law, that the proposal for these amendments and the additions to the law was a merciless event at the game of May 1st in Maxime Dinamo-Hajduk. I won't blame the proposer or that. If we are going to improve these amendments to the Law in this first reading with our proposals and comments until the second reading, we may improve this bill but help to avoid what we heard today in the debate, what happened in Zagreb. And don't give God what happened 25 years ago the same month of May in that other country, I won't say the name, but as a reminder of the growing riots and violence that happens in Croatian sports competitions, and then I'll agree with colleagues who say in stadiums. Because the fact is that all other sports don't have as many incidents, incidents and tragedies as football stadiums do. I won't agree with those who said they don't want stadiums as theaters because I want the kind of stadiums we have to look at in the Champions League, stadiums that the whole family can go to, that parents can take their kids to where we can enjoy the beauty of football or any other game. And I think that we are all here together, not only thinking about the police in Croatian society but also all those who are participating in sports, and these are the organizers and administrations and players, and it is a duty to contribute to achieving this goal in Croatia to be similar to the Europe that we are seeking and not loving, so today when someone says not England has solved the riots. For me, this whole escalation that happens in Croatia reminds me of England, I think we have the will, that we have the knowledge, that with the practice that happens in Croatian stadiums it stops. Some here said today that there was a penalty to be imposed, a ban on playing in front of an audience. Well, some of them have said how much apart from the big derbys, how many viewers at the first Croatian football league matches is that maybe the problem of the organisers, maybe the problem of the Croatian Football Union, but I don't want the problem that we've been having here today, to switch the problem to the functioning of the Croatian Football Federation, when we all know for ourselves that what is the problem, or what causes riots in sports competitions, that is violence, and this proposal, so if this is in the first reading, which goes with stricter sanctions, I think it also has a preventive role. Those who said that if we need bad examples from the history of sports violence or riots in sports competitions, I remind them that the tragedy in Hazel is also recorded or that police or television or media instead of putting hooligans and thugs in the first place who caused riots in sports competitions show such pictures, and then the unhappy and unloved ones from Maximir as of May 1st. Therefore, I really want to believe that these amendments and additions to the Law with stricter provisions and prevented penalties will act preventively on all those who express their love for a particular club and sport in an extremely inappropriate and dangerous way for society. I will support and support the Government of the Republic of Croatia on its definition of zero tolerance for violence in every place and also in stadiums. So is this zero tolerance for alcohol. I agree that somewhere out there in the stadiums, you can drink something, but we can all do it when we get to order those who force us to take these kind of measures, and then we won't mess around with how much someone can drink when in these situations alcohol is one of the reasons, but certainly not the only cause of everything that happens in stadiums. I will clearly take this opportunity to warn the media in the presentation of all of this when I have already mentioned alcohol, advertising, it is nice for my colleague, Petir, and I can agree with much of her exposure, when she said who are the great sponsors of all these great championships, European championships, European Leagues, so whether it means that there are riots in the games, that fans are drunk, doesn't mean. Therefore, by looking at and having good examples from our environment, I think that in Croatia we too can lead to the state of things. Therefore, I will no longer support amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55780	Thank you. Three replicas. First female representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55781	Well, it's hard for colleagues and not to agree with what you used to say, however, by mentioning these sponsors and organizers' problems and at all the number of people who visit matches, we should basically say about the essence of the problem, that we were to discuss these laws today and amendments to the law on sport. Finally, the time has come for the Croatian state not to waste huge funds on those teams that ultimately have bad results. But these results aren't even important, it's time to give these huge resources to the citizens, to amateur sports, and I'm asking you to privatize professional sport. You mentioned England, it's exactly where professional clubs or clubs that have professional players under contract were privatized. A model of this primitive, lagging model has those at the bottom of the European rankings whether they are in football or some other sport, such as Malta, Cyprus, not to mention others. So, the source of our biggest problems, I'm not going to say that this is directly related to this, but the big problems in sports and everything that we have around it is exactly in this model and concept in those bottomless holes. Wherever it is, if he has a contract, professional players pay for it by a local self-government unit that's plowing millions into some cubes with which we've only got problems. After all, let those powerful sponsors who then skating even the local powers to get out of them, is that not an example of faceless corruption. So when they're so powerful and wonderful, let them privatize, let them finance them and bear the names of their companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55782	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55783	Dear colleagues Marinović Antičević I know that you will normally place Croatia at the bottom of everything, and then on these models, models of privatization of sports clubs. Otherwise, as a matter of fact, that's not true. And secondly, this is not a topic that contributes to the resolution and prevention of riots in sports competitions at all. I will dare say that you are committing violence against the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law to prevent riots in sports competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55784	Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would agree completely with the presentation of my colleague Bilić Vardić because she actually hit the point of this whole problem, which is that violence should be prevented and that it can come normally to the game and that family can come to the game normally. Unfortunately, it's not like that now. And there she compared the Football Champions League and that's what Croatia needs. I think this law suggests this in a good way and that this is also the way those examples that are set out in its presentation by the Champions League in England that it is something where Croatia has one example of how it should be solved. And it seems to me that a lot of people go from this topic to real, and it actually comes down to some kind of commentation about which you do, and just not about being this problem. I completely agree with the exposition of my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55786	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55787	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I agree with you. This is not a problem not only to prevent violence but also to prevent the destruction of material property, endangering human lives. Finally, here are representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, protecting the lives of those who, by the letter of law and by the provisions of the law, are obliged to ensure the safety of citizens and the same material property. Finally, England may not be the only example for Croatia to be seen, but according to what our fans did not only at stadiums in Croatia, but in Ukraine, Malta and where they were all following clubs and representations may not be Croatia and England, but Croatian and English fans are much alike. And I think and advocate and believe that these amendments and amendments to the law will help improve the situation in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55788	And Mr. Representative Sima Luchin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55789	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think we're that different from each other. In fact, we differ in the following, you think, and this proposal also goes for violence and violence and violence to be solved by only violence and violence. I personally think things should be dealt with in a root way, which is that we need to stop where the violence comes from. I won't tell you anything new if I tell you that violence always causes violence. And only when the violence is won by the "quiet" path will we solve the problem. And get on the Internet for a minute, it's not a very nice and wonderful story for you. I think English fans are much uglier even today than they are Croatian. Good luck and that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55790	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55791	Thank you, colleague Lucin, for it seems to me that I wrote in your presentation when you said on behalf of the club that it was not solved so well, and I want to tell you that this is not a good message. Because what we're looking at and what the world is looking at in England, and you're going to agree that this is a competition in their first league is what the world sees. No more fences, no more bars. It's an audience with playgrounds. I want to tell you that it's not a good message when you say that England didn't get it right. I don't care how he plays League Three in Scotland, England or Wales. ... I wish he was in my boat but the mayor wasn't smart enough to have him first. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55792	What about the Perkovs?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55793	Shema's from Perkovac, not me. I'm from Brod. No more fellow Lucine when he says he agrees with me in a lot of ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55794	Final review, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55795	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There is no representative of Lesar who has called for my resignation several times if changes and additions of the law do not yield results. Well, I guess if he were here right now, he'd do it again. Since he each time claimed that the proposed amendments to the law were not good and would not yield results. However, listening to all of you here, regardless of party membership, is made to notice one variety in approach to solving the problem. And that diversity in approach to solving problems really does not have any party color, but is obviously seen in part for the role of individual actors or participants in what we call sport, in this social activity. There were words that this law strengthens repression, that police take on new obligations, that police take on new responsibility. However, if all of this was well read and proposed changes to the law, it was not an emergency for the police to assume the responsibility and obligations of those who should be more responsible in the organisation of the competition. And you can see that from Articles 3 and 4, 5 of this law where we have introduced a part of the new obligations for organizers. It is also the obligation of the organiser to interrupt the game if there is a security breach in Article 3. It is then an obligation set out in Article 4 for the organisers to hire professional security guards because it has been shown that engaged directors who are not professional guards are not doing their job well. Partly contributes to the crowd on the ground. It is then prescribed in Article 5 that in the event of a higher safety risk game, at least 30% of professional security guards must be engaged. There are other articles that we have tried to evenly deploy this burden of responsibility to organizers and stadium owners. You must know that when we talked to all the players in sports competitions we talked primarily with sports officials, sports associations, sports clubs, they were doing one pressure to transfer a burden of responsibility to the owners of sports facilities in this law. And now if we go by that logic of who owns sports facilities, the owners of sports facilities are in the largest part of the local self-government unit. What does that mean? That we need cities and municipalities to transfer responsibility to equip stadiums with ticket counters, with cameras, with no idea what. And again what does that mean? This again means that we should transfer responsibility to local self-government units or their budgets. Whether such a solution would be an incursion to the independence of local self-government units and a violation of the Charter of Self-Government Units. Proposing consistent measures in this law is not easy, and the police in no case wanted to take responsibility for the repression itself. We have indeed tried here to balance solutions that will first and foremost make those involved who by nature sport are the most responsible. However, we must also keep in mind that there are some rules even world sports alliances so he asked Lesar why not punish sports officials, and no one here mentioned that FIFA reacted very sharply to the intervention of the French government when it somehow interfered in sport or the results of the French team at the World Cup. There are also strict rules who, when and how they can break the game. Police have a responsibility for the state of security before the match and it is prescribed that police must then protect public order and peace. However, breaking up the sports competition during the game is not so simple and we also have to respect that there are certain rules, regulations and laws of sports alliances, national even worlds that regulate it. So the police in no way wanted to embrace another major part of the responsibility, but we tried first and foremost to ensure that the police could in some way make responsible and other participants in sports competitions to take over their share of responsibility. Unfortunately, when an incident occurs, there is a lot of controversy, but in the end it all ends more or less with criticism from the Ministry of the Interior and eventually the resignation of the police director or interior minister. That is what Mr. Lucin said that the first law on the prevention of riots in 2003 was written by the ministry responsible for sports. At that time, your government tried to make other ministries responsible, i.e. resolutely competent and for some other matters, so it was the ministry responsible for education and was responsible for auto-schools. There were also proposals, I have been in the Parliament many times, that why the Ministry of Interior is proposing and writing Road Traffic Security laws, why not the Ministry of Transport. And that came up with such ideas and thoughts, I say from representatives of different parties, and it was not recognizable to any party colour in all because apparently people have a certain approach to this problem. There was now the same question of why to limit the sale of alcohol when from selling alcohol small clubs to their buffets provide their funding. In 2009 and 2006, when we introduced the obligation to introduce counters, it was the same question that you would ruin small clubs if you imposed an obligation on small clubs to introduce counters. We have tried to make sure that no one is favored, that no one is exculpated from responsibility, but that no one is forced into obligations that are simply not natural to those actors. Of course, in all of this, the Ministry of Sports did not want to take over any repressive methods that we do not need but we all agree that we also have our role, responsibility and obligations, have sports alliances not only football but also in all other sports, have the owners of sports facilities, or in some way local self-government units. But we simply had to react to those unloved events that have recently become I would tell citizens unacceptable, unsustainable and we have proposed this law. We do not claim that this law is ideal, that it is perfect, but we have also consulted the Ministry of Justice on individual solutions, whether it would have suffered a review at the Constitutional Court, since fans' associations have always called for both the Constitution and the violation of certain constitutional provisions on rights and freedoms, and we have made particular good care not to propose a solution that would not fall in the Constitutional Court, so that we do not create further problems. In any case, we believe that this law is good, not perfect, not ideal and that this law would even act preventively in this part of the introduction of criminal acts that occur almost exclusively on sports facilities and that this threat of criminal responsibility would already act on the hooligans to prevent them from committing illegal acts and criminal acts in sports competitions. If the Government accepts this proposal that the law goes to another reading, the MUP will surely conduct one discussion and discussions with all who can propose some quality, good solutions and if the law goes to another reading, you will have the opportunity to propose solutions through different institutions. And what the MUP thinks is useful, that it's better than our proposed solutions, there's no reason not to accept them and possibly fix the law for the second reading to be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55796	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Resume session at 3 p.m. with point 6. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA-Component Assistance Programme in Transition and Strengthening Institutions for 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55797	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions. It's an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 556. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The club of representatives of the HSS proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions with the final proposal of the law. It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading. It's directed to a second reading. Second. It is up to the Ministry of the Interior to take due account of all the observations made during the debate on the Law on the prevention of riots in sport competitions and to include them in the content of the final draft law to the extent that the proposals are relevant and justified. Does anyone have a say in the proposal? Is that it? Sustained. Please, then, I suggest we make a statement on the proposal of these two conclusions. And please, let's get on board and make a statement. Thank you. The result? This proposal to refer this law to a second reading was accepted by most votes, 98 votes to, 2 are abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55798	We're going back to work. According to the announcement of item 6 of the agenda - Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA programme - a component of transition assistance and strengthening institutions for 2009, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 565; Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Hrvoje Dolenc, Secretary of the State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of European Union Funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55799	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Just for a little while, a few words about this third financial agreement of ours under the first IPA component we signed. So, at the end of December 2009, the Commission of the European Communities adopted the National Programme for Croatia under this IPA programme – a component of assistance and transition and strengthening institutions for 2009 totalling 395.1 million kuna or 54 million euros. The European Union's gift to the Republic of Croatia is guaranteed 307.3 million kuna, i.e. 42.1m euros, while the rest is provided in the bodies of the state administration in their budgets by the users of these projects, or this programme. There are areas where the funds for these IPA components are directed. The most important areas focus on the adoption and implementation of the entire acquis of the European Union, and in particular on the preparation of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of the European Community's agricultural and cohesion policy. 18 projects are defined through this program. One smaller instrument that provides funding for a series of smaller projects that can be implemented quickly and is also part of the funds developed to support Croatia's participation in the Community's programmes. So, for payment of membership fees, given that Croatia as a non-member, or candidate, does not yet have to pay membership fees in order to be able to participate in community programmes as useful instruments for specific projects. The financing agreement lays down the conditions necessary for the delivery and assistance of the European Community, the rules and procedures relating to the payment of this aid, the conditions under which this assistance and the amounts of co-financing will be managed and, accordingly, the topics for the implementation of the projects proposed by the Republic of Croatia and adopted by the European Commission, means that the confirmation of the financing agreement in question... the adoption of new or amendments to existing laws, but is financially binding on the Republic of Croatia or its bodies and its institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We propose that we could start by implementing these projects to adopt this law on validation and start implementing projects, negotiating and implementing projects under this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55800	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. In the name of the clubs, we're starting a debate. I'm opening a debate. It is next to the HDZ club, the distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55801	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Confirmation of the 2009 IPA Funding Agreement in the part relating to support for membership preparations, so the components of one which involves strengthening institutions and assistance in transition, is a necessary procedural step in order to make the formal grants intended for the Republic of Croatia useful. This part of IPA is funded by those activities previously funded by the PHARE, i.e. the CARDS programme, and it is rightly said that this is the longest-ever component of access assistance, which is actually working to prepare institutions for the good functioning and fulfilment of the obligations arising from EU membership. If you look at the projects that are listed and compare with the policies of the European Union it will be clear that this component represents this programme for 2009, that final stage of preparation for the start of Croatia's operations as a member of the European Union. The projects listed in Appendix A total of 20 total value 395 million 831 kuna of which 307 million 340 thousand and 439 kuna grants, respectively, cover the so-called Copenhagen criteria, i.e. the following groups of political, economic and legal criteria, and support for the preparation of projects as well as the co-financing of participation in so-called "the European Union". Community programmes, and as you have had the opportunity to read for this period, Croatia's participation in 14 Community programmes is foreseen. If you look at the time sequence when these funds will actually be paid, you can see how this will come in line in 2011 and 2012, that is, at a time when it is realistic to expect the Republic of Croatia to become a member of the European Union. So, with this program, I'm going to very much stress that although the IPA will last so formally we'll have more IPA in 2010, certainly if not 2011. Therefore, some other projects will be approved that will allow Croatia to prepare its institutions for membership in the European Union. However, how much to read and if a parallel analysis of what has been done in this component through all the programmes that Croatia has used so far, it would have been seen that the various institutions have been very prepared for membership in the European Union over the past 10 years and that many of them that have been on the list in earlier years with their projects are no longer there, i.e. that preparedness has reached that level for which it is no longer estimated that the European Union should be supported. So it's going to be over, which means that the money that comes in the following components, in the next programs that we're going to have a chance to discuss here in the years ahead, is going to be more dedicated to so-called. to the cohesion component, i.e. a more balanced development of the entire state, and to mention again the fact that in the period ahead of us, much more money will be available, that because of the nature of the way the Structural Funds and cohesion funds will be used, these funds will be allocated to a much wider number of users, it has sometimes been an observation in these times, in particular by the economy, by local and regional self-government. There comes a time when all actors who are similar to the use of the Structural and Cohesion Funds will have the opportunity to start using the funds, and I believe that it is never enough times to appeal and encourage that it is working on these projects, that it is working on institutional training of those who are going to implement it, because it is time if it was once and it seemed that far ahead of us and can practically be said that it is literally tomorrow, that is, from the next year or at the latest since 2012. As regards the structure of the funds intended for projects, with the exception of co-financing of membership fees in community programmes, they are either targeted at the so-called twing, i.e. advisory services of colleagues from Member States’ national administrations to be selected in projects, or on the supply of goods. I stress this last because we do not have part of the money going for the purchase of goods, where our companies should report as much as possible to competitions that are already under way or will be opened soon, and this would, apart from the benefits that public bodies will receive through projects, benefit from both our economic sector and money would remain fully in Croatia. I think it's a particularly important message in these times of crisis. Here is also not to be extended due to the unquestioned benefit that the Republic of Croatia will benefit from the funds provided for in this agreement, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposed law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55802	Thank you. It's SDP's turn, distinguished representative Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55803	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP club supports this bill, because what my colleague said before me and what is clearly seen from the documents in this component we will also finance, i.e. have one part of our community funding, which in itself then draws additional funds whether for the academic community, whether for the business sector, whether for higher education, whether for culture, social society, etc. It also clearly states here that different sectors, different segments of society, will benefit from this. Are we talking here about fighting discrimination, controlling borders, whether we're talking about strengthening the capacity of further state institutions, whether we're talking about getting equipment or protecting the environment? So this is something we've already discussed, something the SDP club therefore supports. This money, of course, is important to us again because on the one hand, we are preparing state institutions for membership in the European Union, but we need to prepare for the really large amounts of funds that come to us with membership in the European Union, and this is also one, one school, how and how to do and how to prepare institutions. So we only appeal here, so with community programmes that have a lot, with structural funds, and what follows us when we join the European Union, so it's really big money, and it still means we appeal to education in all sectors, so help us with, say, community programmes, an additional academic community, institutes educate for FP. We will soon be able to fully participate in all the programmes within lifelong learning to do the job, and also to do the maximum work related to structural funds, and finally here it is very briefly, we appeal that we are still looking to actually create a system that will motivate our administration, so that those people who are schooling on the cost of the state to learn this hard work would not leave the state administration easily. We today have agencies that we have right now, right now, tendering for employment, part of it because we need people, but part of it because people just leave the state service, learn their jobs, work and move on. So for the end, we only appeal to continuing education, preparing for structural funds and motivating the administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55804	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55805	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA programme – a component of transition assistance and strengthening institutions for 2009. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 565. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a national programme for Croatia under the IPA programme – a component of transition assistance and strengthening institutions for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final proposal for a law confirming the agreement was accepted by most votes, 101 votes for, 1 abstention, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55806	And now we'd go back to point 5, because in the meantime, there were conditions that we could discuss. So - - - Proposal for a Decision appointing the president and part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed these decisions on the basis of Articles 16 and 18. Law on energy regulation. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Natasa Vujec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55807	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs. The provisions of Articles 16 and 18 shall apply. The law on energy regulation has been established that the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency appoints and resolves the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with that Government of the Republic of Croatia, Article 18(5) is based on Article 18(5). The Energy Regulatory Act proposed to the Croatian Parliament a resolution of the President and members of the Governing Council before the end of the period to which they were appointed, which was concluded by this House on 26 May this year. At its meeting held on 17 June 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out a proposal for a decision to appoint the President and part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency until the end of the full term of office of both the President and the members of the Governing Council, in accordance with Article 16(5) thereof. Law on energy regulation. Based on the proposal for a decision for the president of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, the Master of Science Daniel Žamboki is proposed for the period until 30 September 2012, and Tomislav Jurekovic is proposed for members for the period until 30 September 2014, science doctor Igor Sutlović for the period 30 September 2013 and Dunja Trakoscanec Jokic for the period until 30 September 2011. The criteria for selecting a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency have been defined by the law on energy regulation and the Statute of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. A member of the Governing Council may be appointed a citizen of the Republic of Croatia with a residence in the Republic of Croatia who has at least a high technical legal or economic profession, and a working experience of at least 10 years in energy activities or other related areas in energy, or in the field of technical sciences, fields of electrical engineering, mining, oil and geological engineering and engineering, and social sciences, fields of economics and law. With the knowledge of English, and in his profession he was prominent in scientific or professional work, by his public action and worthy of being a member of the board of directors of the agency. Furthermore, the President of the Governing Council must have at least 4 years of working experience in the management of energy activities or other related areas of energy or in the field of technical sciences in the fields of electrical engineering, mining, oil, geological engineering and engineering, and social sciences, fields of economy and law. In accordance with all the above criteria, the legislative provisions on the length of the mandate and the obligations of the President and the members of the Governing Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia were able to propose just before that candidate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55808	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and the clubs are up first. On behalf of the HNS Club, even though it doesn't say it here, I'm going to tell HSU because it is, the distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55809	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for the update. We at the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Pensions Party will support this proposal from the Government on the appointment of new members of the agency. However, many words have been spent in the Agency. All these years when we have warned of all the problems that were evident at that time when we have warned because the fact that the agency is the body of the Parliament which is the task of this agency is known and evident from the law. However, one fundamental question is raised here, which is the government's relationship and the Croatian Parliament's relationship. At the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People, we would like to warn the debate at the same time, while colleagues and colleagues from the position, which is what and what kind of government relationship we allow when it comes to the Croatian public because we are representatives of the Croatian public. I am not going in, and I do not want to open the topic at all on the quality of the work of the members of the Board of Directors. That's what we said every year when there was a report, however, you always supported that report. Always. At one point, however, something happened, and you supported that these people are being changed and today the government is coming with a proposal for new people. I believe by reading their résumé, I believe that these people have the strength and opportunities to lead this agency in accordance with the law and needs and at the end of the reason why and why the Croatian Parliament founded that agency as its auxiliary body, not governmental, but its auxiliary body, however, we as parliamentary representatives have no power to influence, at no point have we had the opportunity to influence. I'm talking about former members of the board of directors. At one point, however, something happened that the Government explained in a way that the administrative council did not act in a way that the administrative council acted in a way that violated the principles of a stable heat market, as a reason why and why the administrative council had been replaced, part of the members of the Governing Council changed. On this occasion, I would simply like to warn you, this is Article 17, 18. The Law on the Regulation of Energy Activities, which states that the Croatian Parliament will discharge the duties of a member of the Governing Council before the expiry of the period to which it is appointed, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in case it so requests, a serious violation of the duties laid down by the Statute of the Agency, the inability to perform an orderly duty for a period of more than 6 months, a permanent loss of capacity to carry out duties, a judicial conviction for a criminal offence which makes it unworthy of the duties and the occurrence of circumstances referred to in Article 17 which speaks of ownership or of conflict of interest in ownership. So now I'm asking why we replaced these people? Is this provision or reasoning or the reason that the Government of the Republic of Croatia stated, which is that the Council has just appeared in a way that has violated the principles of a stable market for thermal electricity? I would like someone to explain to me what element of Article 18 is this conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia involved? However, since it is clear to all of us, colleagues and colleagues from the position, it is really your problem and something that you must explain and explain to the Croatian public why and why, until one moment, you supported something that is not right and why and why and why the Croatian Parliament does not have the possibility of autonomously based conscience, the basis for understanding the problem is determined according to something in this particular case of energy activity. One activity that otherwise has a direct impact on the standard of our citizens, a direct impact on the standard of our citizens, the fact that it has been tolerated in time from us that the agency in some cities and municipalities also allows 50% increase, 20%, 30% increase. Whether it was targeted, I don't just want to believe it because since I know what cities it's about, anything is possible. There is, above all, a question to each of us or to each of you to be responsible for our voters or to someone who has given an opinion at some given moment that is not binding, I repeat, is not binding, but has opened up a whole and total mess in one sector, which, in turn, entails changing and creating something new. I think that's the key question. It's not a general issue when we talk about the law whether to accept these people or not, though. The question is quite different. The government's relationship to the Parliament or the relation of the Parliament-Government which is directly reflected in the everyday life of our citizens. It is a key question, which I would like to ask that all those who supported the work of this agency every year, and we have warned of problems, we have regularly warned about problems and there have been a whole series. It's not just about buying business space, buying pictures and everything else, it's about energy. Go on. One question that's being raised, not because there's no need. He certainly needs to work and insist on such an agency. But knowing the agency's work under the leadership of a former or a member of the board of directors, it also raises the question of the purpose of the agency. In this context, will all these rationalisations and the announced sharp cuts in the economic recovery programme be introduced into the agency? It's nowhere to be found, and it's not the subject of this point. But it is an opportunity to ask both your colleagues and colleagues from the position as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia. By reading the objectives of this agency, the objectives of the law are based on the foundation of this agency. And with one of the most ordinary inventions ever made, will there be any twist? We at the club HNS and HSU hope that it will come to this, and therefore we will give this opportunity support to these people, but we certainly want to warn and condemn such a way and the attitude that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has imposed on the Croatian Parliament on this case, and... that we expect all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be extremely incorrect and unfair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55810	I still have to react eventually. It's not unfair or incorrect. It was by law and procedure that the proposal was proposed. I tolerated it even though it wasn't about the people who were appointed, it was about the content of the agency that wasn't the subject. And I think we should also accept and then discuss the subject, not outside the subject. But let's move on. It is now the turn of the HDZ club, the esteemed representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55811	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Here are a few words on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and part of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The law on energy regulation has been established that the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency appoints and resolves the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with these facts, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established at its session held on 17 June 2010 a proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for the remainder of the term of full term of office of the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. In a proposal for a decision delivered to the Croatian Parliament for the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, Master Daniel Žamboki is proposed, with a mandate until 30 September 2012. For members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, Tomislav Jurekovic is further proposed by 30 September 2014, Dr Igor Sutlović until 30 September 2013, and Dunja Trakoscanec-Jokić until 30 September 2011. Certainly, the quality of such important not only energy regulators is an extremely important issue and it is normal and logical that every serious state administration will pay particular attention to the selection of individuals participating and forming the work of such an important national energy body. Continuity in work, the quality of work is certainly of interest to the wider Croatian public, to the social security of our citizens, especially for the Croatian economy. Very often there are different remarks on competence, expertise, knowledge of people who act in different functions in such important state bodies and therefore I will allow myself a few words more about the résumé of people who have been appointed to these important places in Croatia by the Energy Regulatory Agency. The president, a scientific mastery at the Faculty of Economics according to the criteria, direction of marketing, then specialist mastery at the Faculty of Economics, graduated from the Faculty of Economics. When we look at the formal criteria and the life of the candidate, then we see that they are harmonised, but yet one résumé deserves perhaps a little more attention, a little more consideration. Tomislav Jureković, a graduate engineer, graduated from the Faculty of Engineering and Shipbuilding in Zagreb, graduated from the direction of energy plants, completed a postgraduate study of gas and gas engineering. Professional training: LNG understanding, strategic etc., commercial foundamentals, schooling in England, schooling in Germany, schooling in the Netherlands. Students in the Netherlands in '99, Germany in '93, '96, 2000 and 2001 participated in 50 conferences and professional gatherings in Croatia and Europe. Languages: English, German, speaks French and technical Russian. Further, a relevant experience. Jobs of functions in Croatian gas economy systems and general energy with a focus on business development, project development, resource management and the development and application of the institutional regulatory framework of business, precisely what is the competence of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Further, relevant experience, strategic and business planning, the development of gas supply and natural gas distribution projects, the development of a legitimate regulatory framework for energy operations. Exactly what the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is doing. International affairs, international experiences. International business technical cooperation in the areas of development of gas distribution and supply projects, conceptual development of gas supply systems, feasibility studies, evaluation of projects etc. Strategic planning, institutional relations, relations with regulatory authorities, external cooperation, etc. That's what we need and what we can wish for. It is a comment directly or indirectly to the observations that people sitting in such important bodies are unprofessional and incompetent. Publications, lectures. Istanbul, Berlin, Budapest, London, Warsaw, etc. Let us indeed try when we have the opportunity, prominent people who truly deserve trust with their resume, and there is no reason to expect, with full justification, that they will, with their experience, contribute to the strengthening of this important state body. From all of this, it is only one segment, one very short illustration, I want to make it clear that the HDZ Club will give full support to the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55812	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Of course at the cost of being reminded not to stick to the agenda point and to discuss or talk about something that doesn't say in this part of the agenda, of course I have to start with something that doesn't seem to be the point of this agenda. The point is dry, some people have been removed and other people are named. Now the question is why they've been replaced and why other people are named. When I listened to a representative of the Croatian Democratic Community, I felt that we were wrong for the first time because now, by reading the life reports, we discovered that they were really quality people and they were on paper, by school, by school. Obviously, then the ones we replaced were wrong, perhaps they were wrong professions. That's the impression I got that that's why the résumé of the people who are about to be appointed was read. Somehow I feel like then they were guilty. But the thing is not that they were guilty people, the thing is that they were part, president and part of the board of directors of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency was simply removed for a very simple reason, because they did not, before they passed theirs, because by law they had the right to do so, non-binding opinion, they did not ask anyone in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that is why they were removed. And that's why we're talking today about the appointment of other people. The message sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in such a way and to these quality people is that you will not be independent in HERA, although you should be but will be removed if you do not bring your binding or non-binding opinions, if you do not ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia you will be removed. So that quality is unquestionable and it doesn't matter in this appointment because if they ask, then they will stay, if they don't ask anyone in the government, they won't stay long either. As a colleague from the HNS said, we have already been on several occasions when the HERA reports came before this SDP Club Assembly rejected those reports with a clear message that we are not satisfied with the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and we sent this message through this discussion of refusal very clearly. However, if it continues to talk about it and replace people who will not ask for their own professional work that they must have in an important sector such as energy, then it would be good to save in this era of savings and everything on such an agency that will have to work in a way that they will have to ask someone and only then give their opinion. I think it would save a lot because as we know, HERA has about 40 employees as much as my memory remembers and they moved in a very modern building that was paid for by 40 million kunas a while ago. Therefore, it would be quite a savings because such an agency that only figures on paper and does not have the real meaning to regulate a rather important market such as the energy market then is really not necessary. As I said, one false message is being sent because, in any case, the market that should be controlled and regulated is a very important market everywhere in Europe, and so are we, for the consequence of what we have in Croatia, we have complete chaos, for example, in the gas market. Quite uncontrollably, we're destroying everything that's good and the gas market obviously doesn't work. We don't even know today if we have enough gas that's gonna get us back in the middle or at the end of this year if there's no gas. Do we have the right electricity prices? Of course we don't, because that Agency and that board have never done their job right before. CAN we read from this report, from this energy or electricity price part of this price should go into development for renewable energy sources. We'll never know where those money that's been allocated to a special account for renewable energy sources where these money is and what's been done with that money. Obviously, I'm just not repeating that the refineries are working but we're still importing all possible derivatives. There's the role of this Energy Agency, the regulatory part of that agency that was completely independent, and I'm now supposed to be in this act, in my act today I'm not saying that the government is now to blame for that. No, ladies and gentlemen in the Croatian Parliament, it is our fault that we allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to interfere directly in the affairs of energy agencies and replace people, not because of good or bad work, but because they did not ask before they asked after their informal decisions. Such a way is not good and the message to these quality people who will be appointed is that if you disobey what the government tells you you will still be removed. In any case, if the energy agency did so, it was quite unnecessary and there would be a lot of money saved because then much less people can do it in a more peaceful way because they will ask the government and then we will get the right prices of gas, electricity and derivatives on our market. It is not good to treat one important body in Europe and in Croatia where the energy market is quite in chaos, because it concerns each of us citizens directly because we live in such a Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55814	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55815	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President and part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The motion for appointing was accepted by most votes, 82 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 17 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55816	So we're done with point 5. Now we're going to continue with point 7. I'm sorry if we skip 7th, 8, 9th and 10th because we don't have the conditions to discuss them and move on to point 11. - Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2009 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government submitted this report pursuant to Article 6. The law on the execution of a prison sentence. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zoran Piculjan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55817	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here in this package that will appear before you this week and next week from the domain of the judiciary and two are reports that are new, and the other is somewhat standardised in this high house, which is the report on the prison system and the new state of the probation system. It is, in any case, complementary and related matter, in fact, two reports that are being upgraded and that will not be systematically monitored in the future by this matter of the execution of prison sentences and alternative sanctions. What's important is to say when it's spoken, I'm talking about both reports, so we're going to connect them so that's probably how it's going to be discussed. What is important about the 2009 report is that it was a year of intervention in stabilising the prison system, legal interventions and real interventions but also a year of beginning the construction of a new probationary system. What characterized the prison system, not for a year, not in 2009, not this year, not the last five years, but systematically these two decades, was its re-retraction in 2009 in one space, the prison system where the accommodation for 3350 prisoners was secured was almost 5,000 prisoners. On the one hand, the pre-traction on the other side is sub-optimation. Sub-optimation in the number of officials, in particular judicial officers, as well as officials engaged in professional activities, not only in the domain of security, and even nearly 800 places were not covered. All this points to problems that were then born into the ultimate and security problems of nature, but above all accommodation that was not enough was not good quality for prisoners in Croatian Penitentiary and Prisons. The Constitutional Court also warned about the standards of accommodation, the occupier also warned. And in this report that is so structured, there is no hiding but it is practically all shown and said in what way in one reasonable time will try to solve this problem that really exists and does not need to be hidden no matter what time, the difficult time of the financial crisis we are in. This is why the 2009 reaction was, in fact, one year when we thought one should be done, that one action plan should be developed in this system that will not bring about the lightly promised speed, but that in a reasonable time with significant investments in people, in equipment and in space will remove these current shortcomings. So it's planned first of all and that's what you can really say that in the phase of prison execution, the penitentiary in Clay, its increased capacity of even 410 prisoners. It'll be at the end of this year. And somewhere along the way, we're going to have to follow that up at this time of non-intervention, non-employment in the state administration by hiring a new 105 number, over 100 officials in the clay penitentiary. The competition will soon be announced. Finally systematically, the report itself and the action plan have structured and continued in both five years through the Zagreb prison intervention in Sibenik. In the end, we end up with that part. We'd be done in the next few years and that part of the job. What's important is that I take this, the reaction to that to the prison system and the reaction to systematically improving the prison system is just creating a digestive system. And for this reason, a Strategy for the Development of the Prosecution Service was adopted from 2008 to... the year is considered a reasonable five-year period, a period gradually which, gradually with strong interventions and with good implementation dynamics, actually guarantees that this service will be ultimately and professionally, but also professionally from the official system, but professionally organised, professionally formed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's right, in 2009 in this report, you have an established probation board. It extended her jurisdiction from the part and to... The victims and witnesses are very interesting and very important from the point of view of the judiciary are open five probationary offices and at this point in the trial system which is still based on the system of Commissioners over 360 Commissioners were then carried out 1000 and something, 1017 judgments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Over 2200 today. What's important to end up saying, and that's that some financial indicators that go in favor of this kind of solution, this kind of intervention in the prison probation system, and that's what a prisoner costs a day in the 360 kuna prison system. In today's system of Commissioners of Prosecution 45 kuna, and we expect that this prison system with new 70 employees who will be employed and whose bids will go during this and next month and by the end of the year will be employed by 70 people and will be filled in and all arranged, practically that cost will be reduced to 30 kuna. Allow only two more sentences, which is that comprehensive reform and intervention in the judicial system is currently monitored and modernised if not by the reform of the prison and probation system. It is complementary matter without help and without understanding of the courts, the State's Attorney's Office, and also strong interventions at the Ministry of Justice which is also carried out in terms of professionalisation will not be a good trial service or a strong prison system, relying primarily on professionalism and fair access to this complex and difficult job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55818	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. Then let's go, I'm opening a debate, and first there's clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55819	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Director, colleagues and colleagues. The situation in Croatian prisons and penitentiary is alarming. And every year since 2004, when the real situation in prisons has proved to be true every year, we say the same thing, and every year the situation is getting harder. It's not my own personal observation or the SDP club. That's what the attorney general says. He speaks openly and therefore his report does not get a passing grade, but only so much, something that is tolerated because Europe cannot be denied, so his report, which is very detailed and in this segment only gets an assessment received, the government took note. Which is why I don't agree here, speaking on behalf of the Secretary of State's Club, that the trial and the success of the trial I think we should talk about the trial, not the one concept that, according to the people, sounds like some deus ex machine that's going to save this difficult situation. We should speak Croatian, and it is a shame that the law does not have that name. Apparently, citizens in the lack of real initiative and resources wanted to be impressed with a concept that has a source, a root in foreign languages starting from Latin. Which is why we have been brought into this state in prisons and penitentiary, in those institutions that received only praise from international institutions at the end of 2003. The situation began to deteriorate due to the halting of criminal justice reform, i.e. when it was stopped and put out of force of the 2003 Penal Code novel. We now see that in the ministry, the government is preparing for changes, but which, which will experience the light of the day only at the end of the term and we will return seven years ago. We can think that this criminal reform had back then and that without such a novel, i.e. without such a concept of the Penal Code, where the Penal Code will be reserved really only the most severe and most fatal behaviours, and that all others, all other illegal and criminal behaviours must find a place in some other sanctions, because prison must be ultimated by penalties. She's with us, so she has primate, and that's why we have what we have. So the situation is such that any intended overtreatment cannot experience fertile soil in such a situation, and there are people working in a prison system headed by the principal, practically working under impossible conditions. They also warn the ministry, the ministry warns the government that the funds should be provided, the funds are not provided, but as the adequate funds squeeze so many showers of promise we will build new prisons, we have been listening for years. It is noted that the government, when condemning the perpetrator of the crime, did not stop all its obligations, yet new ones came. We, and now we have international contracts on the agenda, and different acts that we bring here against torture, inhumane behavior. Our prisons and penitentiary for overcrowding, that's also the basic reason, not because of the people who work there, that's, their lives are at stake, that's a serious security problem, that's what the attorney general says. So there's a question of how to get out of this. Even the law on probation won't get to that. We simply need to change the criminal policy in this way as I say we had this newized in 2003. Prisons are also crowded, and people do not experience that our repressive system is adequately responding, but in some ways it even gets the impression that the state has capitulated before serious crimes, and indeed such a perception is not even fundamentally correct, it must be concerned by the ruling. Why don't people just experience the justice that's here is satisfied with the punishment of the penitentiary in our penitentiary and prisons? Because they realize that there are those who may not be, that is, society spends such a great deal of money and should be managed precisely by the edge of this criminal repression against the most dangerous perpetrators, especially if we watch what weighs down our citizens the most, which is economic crime. The occupier says that overcrowding, not only became the biggest problem, but that the percentage of overcrowding, last year, we had 120 last year, about 130, now in some prisons is 149% capacity-filled. The total capacity under closed conditions is 2 thousand 495, and the number of prisoners, prisoners who have been assigned to an investigative prison, prisoners or convicts, is about 4000, which is 160% of the total. Is it normal, then, to scrape the funds because they need to invest large funds in this utility into a core capital infrastructure? That in 2004, the ministry from its premises, for which it did not pay a kuna, moved to the premises, rented rooms for which it spends hundreds of them a month, and hundreds of thousands. It's a million dollars a year. Only from that period until now would all problems or a vast majority of problems be solved, even in such a criminal law. And that's what people warn about, but there's nothing going on here. So, a lot of letters, a lot of papers, we're going to see, if we see in this report that the government has given us, we're going to see projections for 2013, 2014, 2015. But what happens tomorrow? The question of suicides, the most severe convicts, those who have been sentenced to maximum prison sentence for 40 years, the suicide in prisons, each other's accounts, the question is how much will be kept under control. The suicides that are in prison, the punishers committed, do not see people as justice and accuse the authorities of it. The equipment, but not possible, is not possible in such a small area to keep such a sensitive population under control at all, and where it is to train for a normal life when it comes out of these institutions tomorrow to be useful citizens of this society, because it is not only a punishment of retribution, revenge, revenge, it always has elements in our system of education, retrieval, which is essentially our most important punishment. For example, in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, and Osijek, the fill-up of these prisons is on average moving as the public defender 160% and 200%. It's alarming data. It is not rare for younger primary delinquents to endure a sentence with hard-core criminals, returnees, multiple perpetrators, which is a healthy prison sentence with a sick, infected hepatitis C, that health care is also difficult, not because they do not have access to a doctor, but simply there are not so many guards who could serve these prisoners. It's shocking to hear stories that and the pictures that the attorney general shows in individual, almost all prisons and penitentiary rooms. This challenge here was also discussed by the State Secretary, challenges and reactions of the European Court of Human Rights, almost gone, doesn't pass for several months so that we don't get a verdict that punishes Croatia and orders it and gives it a certain deadline in which the situation has to be corrected. We pay the fine, we pay that prisoner, the convict, and things go on the same and worse. The occupier also says that in many prisons and penitentiary there is not a full - time psychiatrist, but a psychiatrist comes once a week. Although this report on the state of affairs of the penitentiary, prison, and educational institutions discussed today is much more realistic than in previous years, so things are not to be hidden, they are not to be relaxed, because it is already widely known, and then there is no point in easing the situation. Many prisoners do not have access to the doctor precisely because of this, or delayed health care comes precisely because of the fact that there is no one to replace the guards at an adequate time. Although many laws have been passed in the meantime that have improved the normative position as they do in some way want to improve this situation, it is a clear fact that no matter how many of these laws are passed, they will not be able to be respected under certain circumstances. So our Penal Code, which was passed far away in 2002 or 2003 even when it was completed and when we first introduced judicialization into the prison system, so we set up a judge, in a prison system, many advanced, we were then many countries in transition prescribing our Law. He was democratic, set up, with all the rights of convicts, with high standards of his, on the trail of all international conventions, on the protection of these persons, against inhumane conduct in prisons, however, could not be respected precisely because of such poor conditions in prisons where the fundamental problem is the tightness of space. And then what happens? It took place in 2007 in which the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Penalty of Prisons reduced the possibility of the rights of convicts and prisoners. Politics that don't look back on this problem in terms of people aren't sensitive to such a population, if they deserve it, so be it, not our prison hotels, that's what our government shouldn't run, and apparently the government's acting on that trail and wave. But I'm saying, it's a serious danger not only to the internal safety of the people who work there, it represents serious security for the outside world. After all, have these people, now proven themselves in such inhumane conditions in which they execute prison sentences, when they come out they are no longer better people, even those convicted of some relatively mild crime become largely violent. So, we've taken them not to school where there's a possible education but we've taken them to a crime school where he meets hard-core criminals, but I'm saying here again in one of these conditions it's not possible to do anything too much. So what we expected at the SDP Club was that something would be done immediately from those reserve funds, but let's act from the beginning so that this law or the law of the Penal Code sees the light of day as soon as possible, where many, in such a way, we would automatically solve the biggest number of problems, would be more effective in dealing with organised crime, drug lords, drug mobs, drug manufacturers, arms dealers, human traffickers, and a large part of the population of those primary delinquents who are generally more patients than criminals, to act in a different way. I think it's high time you think about this seriously, and the sooner we start acting tomorrow so this serious problem doesn't become a national problem, the better it is, we can just remember and feel, there were neighbouring countries, there were in our past such hostage crises that caused a serious problem and a crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55820	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ Club of Honorable Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55821	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Annual Report on the Labour and Status of Penalty, Prison and Educational Institutions contains statistics and indicators that indicate the situation in the prison system and the problems facing the prison system in its work. The Administration of the Prison System is a unique administrative organisation within the Ministry of Justice established by a special law, a law on the execution of prison sentences. Construction units make up 14 prisons, 7 penitentiary, including a prison hospital, two separate institutions, and a training centre. The jurisdiction and mode of work of the Administration of the Prison System and the rights of prisoners are prescribed through several laws, the Law on the execution of prison sentences, the law on criminal proceedings, the Law on Juvenile Courts, the Criminal Law, the Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences, and the implementing rules adopted under those laws, European prison rules and other international laws. The prison sentence for more than 6 months in criminal proceedings is carried out in all penitentiary facilities, in Gospić, Pula, Sibenik and Zagreb where special departments have been set up to execute the prison sentence for more than 6 months. The prison hospital in Zagreb carries out a security measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment when it is sentenced to prison and the treatment of sick prisoners. The sentence of juvenile prison shall be carried out in closed and semi-open conditions in special departments at the penitentiary in Požega, while the division for the execution of this sentence under open conditions shall be established in a penitentiary in Valtura. The measure of detention, the sentence of imprisonment sentenced in criminal proceedings for up to 6 months, the sentence of imprisonment imposed in criminal proceedings, and the sentence of prison replaced by fines is carried out by prisons. A breeding measure to be taken by courts to the juvenile perpetrators of criminal offences is being carried out at the Turopolje Breeding Institute and the Požega Educational Institute. It is important to note that the standards prescribed for the accommodation of prisoners are at least 4 metres square or 10 meters of cubic space per prisoner. The total prison capacity for the accommodation of prisoners in penitentiary and prisons in 2009 was 3351 people. Of which 2495 are provided under closed conditions of execution and detention measures, 640 in half-opened, and 216 in open conditions of execution. Trends of growth continued since last year but continued throughout this year. At the end of 2008, there were 4000 734 prisoners, while at the end of 2009, there were 4000 891 prisoners, an increase of 157 prisoners, i.e. a rise of 3.3%. In the penitentiary, prisons, educational institutions and the Education Centre, the Internal Order Regulations of the Ministry of Justice set up three thousand 27 jobs for civil servants and tenants. In late December 2009, 2,000 554 employees were employed, which is about 20% less than established, and for 23 employees less than in 2008. At the same time, the number of prisoners increased by 165 compared to 31 December 2008. So there are 2 thousand 554 inmates on the legal three thousand 351 prisoners, and basically that number of officials covers an average of 5 thousand 100 to 5 thousand 200 prisoners. The main problem of the prison system administration is the re-packaging and lack of staff, which leads to a large number of overtime hours. In 2009, 379 thousand and 037 hours of overtime were achieved, for which 21 million and 362 thousand were paid, etc. Why it is not important to reduce overtime because we know that the Department of the Prison System works and works 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, regardless of whether it is a holiday, a holiday or a weekend. Of course and continues to be a constant trend of growth. During 2009, a total of 17,000 997 prisoners were present in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia who had differing formal legal status, which is an increase of 451 prisoners compared to 2008. The increase mainly concerns closed conditions for the execution of prison sentences. Under semi-open and open conditions, there is a slight reduction. Inmates make up 1/3 of the total population of prisoners, while addicts make up a large part of the prison population. On average, there are about 15% of drug addicts or about a thousand such people. Their share is proportionally higher than their total number in the prisoner population and is spent on huge funds. Only last year on their meaning in last year on their treatment spent about 5 million something over 5 million kuna. It is important to stress that the length of the prison sentence is increasing. At the end of 2009, there were 2.5% of prisoners with a long sentence of 20 years and more. In Lepoglav, for example, the average maintenance of prison sentences is 9 years and 10 months. An increasing number of complaints from prisoners pointing to their rights are on the rise, and the charges are being followed, and the risk of safety is increasing, in particular, reflecting on the coming summer. This example is also an example of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which, in its decisions of 17 March 2009 and on the grounds of the prison in Zagreb, stated that the standards and regulations of the 2006 European prison rules adopted by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers have not been ensured in Zagreb by the recommendations of 11 January 2006, as well as the conditions for overcrowding adopted by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers' recommendation on the overcrowding of prisons and inflation of the prison population. In order to address the situation of overcrowding, to meet the prescribed conditions and standards in the prison system, and to respect the human rights of prisoners, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system between 2009 and 2014. It was delivered to the Croatian Parliament for adoption, and the Croatian Parliament adopted the action plan on 13 February 2009. The action plan envisions the completion of a new facility in a prison in Glina with 420 prisoners, building a reception and visiting building, expanding the kitchen capacity and dining room for prisoners and adapting the building for the health care of prisoners. It is also planned to build a prison building in Zagreb with 376 prisoners. Construction of a new penitentiary and prison in Sibenik for about a thousand 230 prisoners. It is also envisaged to carry out training of special knowledge and skills officers in working with prisoners. Here's this annual report that shows the state of the prison system today. The HDZ Club will also support the vote and confirm the adoption of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55822	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The only reputed representative, Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55823	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for the previous year shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in June of the current year and thereafter to the Croatian Assembly for adoption and submitted to the Administration of the Prison System. As we have heard from the founding units, I will say perhaps the most complex state administrations in the Republic of Croatia consist of 14 prisons and 7 penitentiary facilities, including a prison hospital, 2 educational institutions, and a training centre. Since I've worked in that system for many years, I'm going to say something that maybe my predecessors haven't said as clearly as I'm going to say. The fundamental problem of the prison system in the Republic of Croatia can be reduced to two facts. One is the lack of accommodation space and the chronic lack of financial resources to meet legal obligations towards prisoners. I think that all my predecessors spoke precisely in this first part of the so-called accommodation capacity, and here it is said and listed the parts of the action plan that the Government of the Republic of Croatia tolerates to improve the situation in the prison system, but this second part is very important, which is actually saying that everything rests on money and how much music they hunt, as our people say. During 2009, there were nearly 18,000 prisoners who had different statuses, as we heard. In early 2009, 3099 prisoners had already endured punishment, and with the maintenance of the fines continued during 2009. New 1943 prisoners were admitted in the Diagnostics Department last year. Most of them were male, so over 94%, and only 5.4% were women. Every fourth diagnosed prisoner in the Diagnosis and Programming Department had a safety measure imposed so that the largest number of prisoners, 44% had a safety measure of mandatory drug addiction. Then comes a group of 24% prisoners who had a security measure of mandatory treatment of alcohol addiction. Almost equal number of prisoners had a security measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment. The prison system of the Republic of Croatia continues to show an increase in the number of prisoners who have not been followed by an appropriate increase in accommodation capacity. Overcrowding of penitentiary and prisons and difficulties in meeting Croatian and international standards of accommodation result in frequent lawsuits of prisoners for damages to national and international human rights courts in Strasbourg. The total prison capacity for the accommodation of prisoners in penitentiaries in the past year either for 3351 persons of which 2495 in closed conditions, 640 or 19% in semi-opened and 216 in open conditions for the maintenance of prison sentences. What is certainly worrying about what he would once again point out here is that from year to year, commitments are being transferred and financial commitments are increasing from the previous year. Thus, this report shows that the lack of income and income transferred from the past year was 25 million 376 thousand, while the lack of income for the next period was 41 million kuna. Total outstanding liabilities are less than total income and income deficits and consist of other outstanding liabilities on the burden of the state budget of 22 million 940 thousand kuna, unsettled outstanding liabilities on the burden of the state budget of 10 million kuna and total outstanding liabilities on the burden of its own activity of 8 million kuna. The report shows how complex and demanding the prison system is. Everything that happens in society happens in a prison system, only in a smaller space and far more intensely. In addition, the state of human rights in a country is being checked first by the state of the prison system so that it is not surprising that Croatia's accession process to the European Union checked through this particular situation. The Committee for the Prevention of Torture, Inhuman and Demeaning Behavior and Treatment or Penalty of the Council of Europe, as well as our Ombudsman, regularly monitor the state of human rights in the prison system regularly reported by the Croatian Parliament. In order to address the situation of overcrowding, to meet the prescribed requirements of the standards in the prison system and to respect the human rights of prisoners, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system in 2009 to 2014 and delivered it to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. The Croatian Parliament adopted the Action Plan on 13 February 2009. The state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 provides for the funding of 38 million 220 thousand to complete the construction of the building for 420 or as far as we've heard, 410 prisoners in the Glina Penitentiary who we believe will be inhabited by the end of the year, and for so many of what we from Gline are particularly looking forward to, that there will be an invitation to the judicial police as you know there is a great interest. To build prisons in Zagreb in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia, funds of 4 million and 600,000 kuna are provided for, which is enough only to build project documentation, to obtain a building permit. In order to build new capacities in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, no additional financial resources were provided for which projects were presented to the European Development Bank on 16 March last year in order to co-finance the construction or approval of loans. I think it is important here to stress that the full introduction of the probationary system will also make an important contribution to reducing the overcrowding of prisons and penitentiary. This system, as we've seen from the State Secretary's opening report, is actually only in turns, and this seems to me to be the first year when a state report is submitted in that department. The report, therefore, presented to us here is comprehensive and transparent, and its careful reading shows the scope and complexity of the work of officials and tenants in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia. For me, this report is fine, and I'll take it as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55824	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Does the representative want... Thank you. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55825	We move to the 2009 report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the conclusion: the 2009 report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 100 votes for, one abstention and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55826	We move to paragraph 12, which is - The 2009 Justice Department Prosecution Report has submitted this report on the basis of Article 2. The law of probation. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. ... So he stays at the argument from the previous point because he put them together. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. And distinguished representative Anna Lovrin on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. A report on the work of the Department of Prosecution of the Ministry of Justice for 2009, accompanied by the Action Plan for Development on Testing in the Republic of Croatia from 2010 to 2014 brought by the Croatian Government at a session in June this year. What I would first of all say is that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this report and, as the report shows, it actually refers to a very short period of 2009 for a simple reason because it is in September 2009. A Regulation amending and supplementing the Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of Justice established by the Prosecution Administration whose report we have today at the hearing as a administrative organisation of the Ministry of Justice which conducts administrative and professional affairs in deciding on criminal prosecution, election, enforcement of criminal sanctions, criminal sanctions measures and measures to the full-time perpetrator of the criminal offence in the organisation and support and assistance of victims and injured persons, and the support and assistance of the victim's family and the family of perpetrators of criminal offences. He conducts professional training of probationary officers, conducts internal supervision of the proper, timely and legal work of the establishment units, officials and managers of the administration. In December 2009 here in the Croatian Parliament we passed the Law on probation, so he was the only one I would say in the context of application. In line with a series of recommendations from the Council of Europe, the Council of Europe and the positive practice in many European countries as part of the reform of the justice system implemented in Croatia since 2005, strong support has been expressed to develop a system of testing as a way to disburse the collection and overcrowded prison system humanised and enforce criminal sanctions, to facilitate the rehabilitation of perpetrators of criminal offences, to reduce the risk of repeating the criminal offence committed and to protect the social community as effectively as possible. The law on probation in the Republic of Croatia is also supported through bilateral assistance in reform procedures. In December 2009, guidelines for the creation of a new Penal Code, including the need to improve and increase the effectiveness of the criminal sanctions system through a reform of prison sentences in order to limit the ability to impose short-term prison sentences, reduce the number of supplementary prison sentences, and encourage what is extremely important here is the application of alternative sanctions to be implemented in the probationary system. The five-year strategy of setting up a national probation service as two main objectives has defined the development of professional practice and the construction of professional organisations, and its mission is to co-operate with the community to protect the public and reduce the risk of relapses through the resocialisation and reintegration of perpetrators of criminal acts into society, as well as to ensure respect for the rights and needs of victims. By meeting the objectives of Croatia's strategies, this action plan will also meet the European Union's requirements and will meet the Council of Europe's recommendations on the measure of detention, sanctions and measures in the community, as well as parole. So, what I'm saying here is that apart from this very report that we're mostly reading from, so what's going to be done by the Testing Authority in accordance with the Prosecution Act, from which we're reading that I'm re-establishing the Ministry of Justice in September was established by the Testing Authority, that it's been passed the Prosecution Act. We are also reading from statistical reports and charts, and it is good that since 2004 we have data here by 2009 the number of convictions issued by protective supervision with conditional condemnation and work for the general good on the loose has been growing, which has been promoted primarily in order to relieve the prison system that we have heard is burdened with problems, that the main problem and main burden of prison in Croatia. But not only in Croatia, but also in many other countries, Europe's overcrowding, that solving and overcrowding requires significant financial resources. But that a much more effective and much more effective problem can be solved, and not only because of overcrowding, but also because of better resociation, due to the reduction of so-called. the criminal infection of the young perpetrators above all and the perpetrator of minor crimes. So that through the sampling system this problem can be solved far more effectively. And what we still notice from this report is a fairly uneven number of penalties imposed in courts in the Croatian area. So, according to some county courts, what we have a detailed view of here, which means that we should continue to work on the education of judges in this direction. Equally, it's a matter of equating court practice. This report also shows that the establishment within the Ministry of Justice has been completed to establish a regional office which has its very right to be formed in a way that has professional officials and we have heard from the secretary of state that such an organisation will also significantly reduce the funds necessary for the reason that today's day in prison or detention hall costs us as we heard about 370 and some kuna. A day in a prison hospital, 600 kuna. Today's exercise through the Justice Department's commissioners is also about 360 kuna, and I'm setting up this administration in a way that hires and hires professional officials would be reduced to 45 kuna. So, while we have already supported a series of strategic documents and laws, the Strategy for the Development of Testing with the formation of the Ministry, we will today support this report, which is not great, because it can't be, since it is only the beginning of the application, but we certainly support an action plan that I think is much more important with this report, which sets out the objectives and tasks of this administration, and therefore we expect that the 2010 report will be more comprehensive, because it will eventually have an entire year of application. What we are pleased to conclude, therefore, is that the trend of increasing the expression of alternative sanctions in the upward path, that we have institutions, we have a legal framework and we expect that setting up a probationary system except as it will relieve the prison system, except as it will reduce the necessary financial resources to contribute to better resociation of convicts, a reduced criminal infection mainly as I have told younger convicts and those for easier crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55828	Thank you. SDP's club, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Director, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the report on the work of the Department of Prosecution of the Ministry of Justice for 2009, but this time too, we note that the Prosecution Act itself will not save the difficult situation itself, because it is a logic for you under the existing Penal Code, where everything and everything has become a criminal offense, without the possibility of parole, so we put everyone and the smallest perpetrators in prison and then we say it's expensive and then we have a law on probation to get him out of prison. Well, the government itself is then unworthy of what it's doing, and it's all because of that, and I don't know why and what kind of perseverance this government is being led by, for seven years, refusing to recruit in an adequate manner the Penal Code. It's even said that judges should spend less time in prison. Well, in 2003, we shut down the satellite prison. We've abolished a whole series of crimes, or prisons for excruciating crimes, for people who are victims of organised crime. So is it a devastating situation that 64% of the Supreme Court cases are drug abuse in that basic element? After a joint, it's a dangerous store. 64%. And our Penal Code with the incrimination of a lighter and more serious offense, the form has over 7 hundred incriminations, and they deal with one article in 64%. So when they deal with others, when they deal with economic crime, abuse of official office, abuse of religious rights. When will he deal with such criminal acts? Well, of course they're dealing with these easier works, but the waist itself says get that away from us. That's what the state's, the State's Attorney's Office says in their reports, that's what judges say that it's easier to judge this, this kind of lewd acts where we youngsters, as a rule, refer young people to penitentiaries. And then a new law of probation that will get them out of there. So give me the men. Apparently, the government also acts in this segment as a really fragmented orchestra. We always take a detour, make problems for ourselves. Well, the Probation Act is a great thing, it's a good thing, but it has to be reserved really to get out of jail, out of prison, out of penitentiary, so those who show both the will and the strength to get better, to have your treatments have an effect, and to have normal conditions there, that they're also booked probation. It's not just reserved for exaggerating perpetrators, but like any good thing it costs. We've had house arrests, and we've had an investigative prison since 2003, and that measure doesn't apply. So even now that we don't have any more, when the investigation is removed from the official court proceedings and transferred to a pre-phase conducted by the State's Attorney's Office along with the police, we still don't use that institute enough, or we don't use ourselves at all because these are expensive things. Therefore, from this very point of view, it will not be of great benefit if we have a legislative framework that will make it impossible or make this situation difficult. Here we are also talking about the necessary novel of Penalty Penitentiary. He says he has repeatedly highlighted the need to improve and increase the responsibility of the criminal sanctions system, guidelines were given in 2009 for the creation of a new Penal Code, and the government has already informed us of two years to work on amendments to the new law, and here we see that only 17 December 2009 that it gave guidance for the creation of a new Penal Code. I repeat, neither trial will save the effectiveness of the criminal trial, nor improve the situation in our penitentiary system without changing the true change of the Penal Code in the sense that we will discharge the bodies of persecution, repressive, and then later in this penal system if we do not focus on what citizens expect from us to be behind the locks, that these penitentiary and prisons are reserved for dangerous perpetrators, and that those who are practically their victims, to reserve them as witnesses in order to truly be effective in the fight against organised crime, thus suppressing corruption and all these problems very quickly would be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55830	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55831	Mr. President, Secretary of State, Director. Says a colleague of Ingrid's Probation Act, great law, but before I do, I'm gonna have to bang around the government a little bit. I support the report on the work of the Educational Board and a very short one remark. As you said, the central office and 12 testing offices in the Republic of Croatia were established, but I think it would be necessary, given that one of the largest prisons in the Republic of Croatia is being built in Sibenik, I think one of these offices is being held in Sibenik. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55832	Does the Secretary of State want a final review? Yeah. Zoran Piculjan, State Secretary at the Department of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55833	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here I thank you for the debate that was fruitful this time, and it has shown that we have again and again been better hit exactly the way this report is structured thanks to the Croatian Parliament, as well as to the reports of the Ombudsman and all those who in an indirect way point to the weaknesses or problems that appear in this extremely complex system. The system is burdened by problems, but the system that the 2009 report shows that these problems are solved by short-term action, and it also has a vision and a long-term exit strategy and these problems that occur in the prison system. What seems right to me to point out is that sometimes it is not enough to point out, these released figures make it hard to see that this system in 2009 is not entirely speaking to the difficulties that it has been overachieving and sub-optiming and we haven't had any more serious situation, and thanks to only one fact, only one good thing, which is that real professionals work in this system, people who know how to do their job and who are rightly obliged by this government and the next governments to raise their safety levels and their professionalisms to the highest level. What is important and what is seen and I will end it, there will be no significant improvement without such an action plan and without its implementation, and the government is determined to spend it in these times of crisis. But of course what Commissioner Marinovic said and without strong intervention in criminal law. At this point, this strong intervention seems very professionally highly professional in the Ministry of Justice in one way that at the end of the year they would have one Penal Code which could indeed be proud of this profession and the Republic of Croatia. So we expect that next year we will arrive with a report that will confirm that the digestive system is progressing, that it has released the prison system to a certain extent. We will not be optimistic and say that only he will do so, he will need interventions in criminal law and in criminal law, it will need to be tied to arrests a lot, a lot I would say braver than before. And all these interventions in one reasonable period of 3 to 5 years can respond, can stabilize the Croatian prison system, raise to a higher level, and revive the Croatian probation system and within 5 years of intervention in criminal law we can obtain full effect. Anything else I'd say is easily promised speed, and it's really not to be made, it's really not to make such promises at any time, especially in times like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55834	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55835	Seven. A report on the work of the Department of Prosecution of the Ministry of Justice for 2009. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting in the opinion: a report on the work of the Department of Prosecution of the Ministry of Justice for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted with 101 votes for, one abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55836	We move to the next point - Report on the implementation of the National Road Transport Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia 2006. - 2010, for 2009, the Carrier is the Government. The government submitted this report on the basis of Article 111. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament since 2 June 2008. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and the Committee on Local Region (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55837	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In front of you Report on the implementation of the National Road Transport Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia 2006. - 2010 for 2009 a concrete report for 2009. The first national programme that the Government of the Republic of Croatia began to implement was in 1994. Since the state of road safety in Croatia was alarming with many deaths, a lot of traffic accidents and a lot of damage. The national road safety programme shall be implemented through strategic activities and through additional activities. Strategic activities are to reduce vehicle speed and respect the highest permitted speeds, then protect children, young and most vulnerable road users, suppress driving under the influence of alcohol and intoxicating drugs in traffic, resuscitation of the described places, and of the additional activities are the most important increase in the technical regularity of the vehicle, improvement of traffic statistics and analysis, use of the safety belt and daylight lights on vehicles and respect of traffic lights. A change in the pattern followed by traffic accidents was then made, thus expanding and modernised data collection important for further resolutions of planning and handling with the aim of reducing the number and consequences of traffic accidents, and as part of the actions related to the use of the safety belt, the said radio video has been broadcast, meaning promotional and promotional activities which are primarily of preventive character and importance. The road safety law entered into force on 17 June 2008 and was adopted primarily in order to comply with the provisions of the Criminal Law and to comply with the European Union rules, which has been fully achieved both with the directives and with the acquis of the European Union. Although the Road Traffic Safety Act is conceived in such a way that it has a particularly preventive character for certain particularly dangerous offences, it prescribes as an alternative and a prison sentence. And otherwise the prison sentences in that law were increased in 2009 compared to the previous period. It can be concluded that the new Road Safety Act is in full application, and its results are reflected primarily in improving the road safety status which is particularly visible in 2009, i.e. the first full year of its application. Otherwise, it is common practice for the road safety situation in all European Union countries, even in the world to measure certain marked statistical indicators, so I will say just a few of the most important ones, compared to 2008 so that it can be easily monitored whether there has been an improvement or a deterioration in the situation. Thus, in 2009, there were 50 thousand 388 traffic accidents. Compared to 2008, when there were 53 thousand 495, it was a 5.8% reduction with the victims we had in 2009 15 thousand 730 compared to the number from 2008 when there were 16 thousand 290. That's a 3.4% reduction. The victims, we had a total of 2009. Twenty-two thousand 471 people and a year earlier in 2008. Twenty-three thousand 69, down from 2.6% from 2008. And what may be most important is that there was a significant reduction in the number of people killed in traffic. In 2009, we had 548 people killed in transport, and in 2008 664, which means that in 2009, in the observed reporting period, 116 fewer traffic users died, which is 17.5% less fatal. And we believe that this is precisely the most valuable result of all the activities that the Ministry of the Interior and other competent institutions have implemented in implementing all the regulations affecting road safety. Under the circumstances that preceded traffic accidents or causes, the largest number of accidents remains due to non-compliance with traffic rules, traffic signalling or human errors. In 2009, most people died due to irregular or unadjusted speed, 55.3% due to failure to respect the advantage of passing 6% and to pedestrian errors 3.6%. According to species, during 2009, most people died in the landing of the vehicle from the stake, which was the case in 36.3% of traffic accidents. When a vehicle crashes from opposite directions 21%, on footfall 17.9% and at lateral collisions of 6.7%. A total of 305 people who were killed by a car accident in 2009 died as drivers, which is 18.2% less than 2008. Passengers died 140, which is the same reduction of 9.1% compared to the year before. The pedestrians died 103, down from 24.8% from 2008. And what is also very important to say is that the young driver's share in all traffic accidents and sufferings is markedly reduced, which means that they and the standards of the Road Traffic Safety Act, as well as the police's behaviour, have produced results. And we believe that there was also an important promotional campaign that has been constantly being carried out all these years, but on the other hand we have an increase in the number of motorcycles and tractors killed. The Ministry of Interior is following these trends and campaigns this year, a promotional campaign that takes place through electronic and printed media is precisely and targeted towards these groups of road users who died more than a year ago, so we have a say a good campaign directed towards motorcyclists. And what is also alarming is that in 2009, four children died more than 23.6% compared to 2008 and also the Ministry of the Interior are making significant efforts to prevent the victims of these most vulnerable groups, or children, in order to reduce this trend of increasing child injury in transport and to ensure greater safety of children in transport. And I can finally say with pleasure that these positive trends that we had last year continued in both this year and the first six months, i.e. by yesterday we had 210 fatalities compared to 242 people killed last year in the same period, which means that by July 5th of this year 32 people died. 32 people were less fatal compared to the same period last year. And we hope that through consistent application of the law and implementation of all those measures and activities stemming from the National Road Safety Programme, we will manage to preserve these good trends and affect as little traffic accidents as possible, as little material damage as possible, and what is most important, to preserve as many lives as possible of Croatian citizens in transport and to bring all these problems down to the level of the European Union, i.e. the target number of 10 deadly road users compared to 100,000 inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55838	Thank you. The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? The Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative's club, Mr. Representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. It is always difficult to speak when this topic is on the agenda, then it is really hard to say that the 2009 National Road Traffic Safety Programme Report is successful or positive. Of course, we are always associated with what was the objective of the National Road Safety Programme 2006-2010. The ultimate goal was for the Republic of Croatia to have a population of up to 10 people killed in Croatia. So when we talk about those who die on our roads it's really hard to say this is a 2009 report good, but it's like that and statisticalally it's better than it's been all these years. And let me say very briefly then what I think is important at this point. It would be good if, in the end or not, I don't know when you're reading the proposal for the conclusions of the Maritime and Transport Committee where I think they're good conclusions, that a part of them should still be respected. And one of them is that the period is running out, that this is 2010 so that it would be good to do a serious analysis of everything that has been done for the future in order to reach that goal from 10 to 100 grand in order to be somewhere in the European frameworks and to see what we have done well, where we still need to do something for some future national programme. I don't think that a future national programme should give up. I must admit, I also find it difficult to commend the police. So, this report shows that the ministry that suffered the greatest burden in 2009, that this kind of report would be in front of us is the Ministry of the Interior, but it seems to me that it is, then, not enough. I think that these efforts of the police to be, to act both educationally and repressively is not that we keep repeating is not good for an entire project like this that aims at the goal of those ten on the table. It's not enough that it falls on the shoulders of the police only without all the others involved. Even some who were bound by decisions to do something and didn't do it, and that should be emphasized here. This goal can simply be achieved only when it is a symbiosis of all those ministries that are obliged to do much more on that security especially in that prevention that we also lack. So I'm just going to give a few examples with that commendation, of course, to the police. And it seems to me that this change of the Road Safety Act along with this increased repression let's say it also contributed to the number of accidents but also the number of fatalities and injured in car accidents. What is missing from this basic part may be good if we concentrate now especially in this period when we stop building highways, that maybe we also invest some of the money in the recovery of existing county and local roads that are also known to have their own black spots for which whenever something happens there, of course, it is the driver's fault. But it's not possible that he's always too drunk or too fast or too young, so there's a car accident in that place. It is obvious that something about the road may also be wrong that, of course, road safety tips on some districts have identified what critical places and black spots are in the road network of the Republic of Croatia that should be rescheduled. Thus, through the resolution of such black dots as is available in the Republic of Croatia through various projects of the Croatian Roads, it may be necessary to give an emphasis in this year or by the end of this year and the beginning of 2011 to resuscitate these black spots as well. What is also in the discussion of the adoption of this report on the committee is seen, and this is that it is necessary to do more at that education that is in some counties, meaning in some parts of Croatia it has proved to be good, which is that it is necessary to do more at the education of those who first come to the site of the accident, which is primarily police and firefighters. So, education from providing first or urgent medical care, basic education should go through all those who first come to the site of the accident, and these are primarily cops and firefighters. In some parts of the Republic of Croatia, this project or programme is also going well, so it would be good to make it available in the future programme for the whole of Croatia. I see there's some money and everything, so maybe it could be made with that money. The lack is also what will be noticeable or noticeable in this tourist season are tourists who come to us from far more distant countries, European countries that are well informed and seek of course such information is available when they come to our islands. There are tourists like that. Our coming tourists are not necessarily healthy. So, some of them also suffer from chronic diseases, but also such people need a vacation, and then they inform themselves how much they need if something happens on one of our islands if they have chosen it as a destination, how long it takes for God not to allow any evil to happen in that golden hour to reach the first clinical hospital center that can provide them with that health care service that they have become accustomed to in their own countries, so it is obvious that in that case they need to re-enact that heliodrom project on our islands so that both in this way and the population on our islands and also the guests who come to us have this security that they can still get back to the serious clinical hospital center in which they will be able to provide all the medical services that they need at that moment. What I must also warn is that some ministries have unfortunately failed to comply with all those provisions that they or what they have committed to under this National Programme to do so is primarily the Ministry of Science, meaning education. They didn't mean some of their obligations they were supposed to do. I don't think that's good, because the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports didn't bring in a training program for bicycle riding, a cycling test programme and a confirmation obligation from the item that I'm not now counting what they didn't do. I don't think that's good, I repeat for the basic goal of ten to one hundred or ten to one hundred thousand inhabitants it is necessary not only to fall on the burden of repressive bodies such as the police, but it should be a wider activity in the Republic of Croatia of all those interested. And in that case, it's pretty unclear why the Ministry of School is kind of struggling that we don't have anywhere in high schools, but nothing at all is going to happen from something that's simply called a transport culture. Since these high school benches make up the youngest of our drivers, and they are quite quite, that they are children who are not used to traffic as they are, and that it takes them time to get used to our rampage on the roads, it would really be necessary and necessary that, apart from what we have in basic schooling, and also in kindergartens, it would be necessary to give them some opportunity to say through this let's say a culture of traffic that might be in some sort of class of technical education, or I don't know where it might be put, that through that culture of traffic in some way, they point to the dangers that they face when they come from school benches for their 18th birthday or 19th birthday they sit in their father's car, and that at least they have some kind of wind up waiting for them and then in such a way to adapt their normal behaviour on the roads, and all to make that safety for those young people as well as they are now. Which this report still concludes, except that it's positive and that it's okay, too, that I'm not going to remember all these numbers now, it's not fundamental, but it's signifying that in the past year there were about 25 thousand technically invalid vehicles, or without a technical examination, without registration on our roads. Quite a number, because apart from being young, except we're driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, except we're driving too fast, except we're going wild on the roads and accidents happen, it's obvious that, or it's likely that that part of road safety also contributes to our technical correctness. Because that's what the repression established. What hasn't been repressed is far greater. So we're driving with people who drive cars that aren't technically correct. It is obvious that in this segment, too, something different should be done, so that such people do not appear on the roads, so the penalties should be much greater, because it is the only way that we are obviously to behave in some way. Here's what we in the SDP think we should do. I repeat, we would be pleased if you would accept part of the conclusions of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. And at the end of the accent, there's a lot of those and relapsers that show up on our roads again, and we didn't know or we still don't know how to end them. I repeat that I think that this comprehensive action should not only remain at the Ministry of the Interior, but also at other ministries, joint forces, perhaps in the future, that we have that goal, from 10 to 100 thousand, but perhaps we should do more to make the directorates appear as little on our roads as possible, so these penalties should be even more stringent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55840	Thank you. HNS and HSU's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55841	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The implementation of the national road safety programme from 2006 to 2010 was carried out through basic or strategic activities in 2009 which are reducing the speed of the vehicle and respecting the highest permitted speeds, protecting children, young people and most vulnerable road users, curbing alcohol and intoxicating drugs in traffic, and addressing dangerous places. In addition to basic activities, additional activities were carried out, such as increasing the technical regularity of the vehicle, use of safety belts, etc. The national programme 2006-2010 is the basis of all activities related to improving road safety. The basis of the national programme is based on preventive action, and unfortunately it is impossible to reach an increased level of road safety and without a repressive component. The better situation in road safety is the result of the engagement of various entities, from associations of citizens, professional associations and state institutions, which organise and carry out various activities such as seminars, round tables, on road safety. Of course, results can always and must be better as it depends on a number of factors, and one of the important ones is certainly the possibility of financial investment in the field of road safety. The road safety indicators in the Republic of Croatia in the last 2009 compared to the previous 2008 said the total number of traffic accidents was reduced by 3 000 107 or 5.8%. Reduced number of deaths by 92 or 15.7%. Reduced number of accidents with injured persons by 468 or 3%. A smaller death toll for 116 or 17.5%. The number of severely injured persons decreased by 125, i.e. 3.1%, and the number of injured persons was reduced by 357 or 1.9%. Of the total number of fatalities involved in traffic accidents, 341, or 62.7% died at the scene, 58 or 10.7% in transport to a medical facility, and 149 or 27.2% in the 30-day period of the car accident. This good and positive road safety movement has been achieved under constant increase in the number of vehicles and drivers on Croatian roads, and an increase in the total volume of road traffic. The most severe traffic accidents occur due to human errors, i.e. harsh violations of traffic rules and non-compliance with traffic signalling. It remains the main cause of fatal loss of speed, so the lack of respect for its limitations, or the non-adjustment of the speed conditions on the stake killed more than 55.3% of the total number of deaths. Fatal injuries occurred in 36.3% of cases when the vehicle landed from the stake. Aggressive driving is, by all accounts, an overall problem, and unfortunately, it is also on the rise. Aggressive driving becomes a paradigm of traffic behavior. Public awareness of the dangers and risks that result from such driving and such traffic behaviour should be raised to a significant higher level, in order to become a society that simply does not accept such behaviour on the road. Contrary to this kind of driving, we accept and cultivate a defensive ride, which we can describe as a way of conduct that allows us to survive in road traffic, to remain unharmed, not to damage our vehicle, but at the same time to protect the lives, health and property of other road users. The report says the number of traffic accidents and injuries caused by young drivers from 16 to 24 years of age has been reduced. The share in all accidents and casualties caused by this group of drivers has also been reduced, which is considered to be the best positive change in road safety. Education and that targeted, aimed at all categories of transport participants, is one of the most powerful means available in the fight to reduce the number of traffic accidents. Of course, it is necessary to establish a full and quality education system at the level of the entire country and then work systematically on its implementation. The mobilisation of the professional public and various entities from associations of citizens, professional associations to state institutions that organised and carried out various activities such as seminars, round tables and the like has contributed without a doubt to improving road safety. In this part, more can be given, and in particular, continuous education and the implementation of the youth’s traffic education through programmes appropriate to their age. Five educational campaigns were planned in 2009, for which contracts will be signed only this year, and implementation will also take place with a time-out. But we say better than never. The media can make a significant contribution to improving the overall state of road safety and raising the transport culture of all road users. In addition to the "Black Chronicle", which mainly describes the consequences of traffic accidents, positive traffic behaviour must be more promoted through various educational content. What is the plan for next, that is, this year's last year of the national programme, we also find in the report. And I'm only going to underline some of the positions that we think are important and should be taken special care of. The safety of children and young people in traffic, accidents in traffic accidents are leading to the death and disability of children and young people in most countries of the world. In Croatia, every third child who dies between one and 19 years of age dies as a result of injuries caused by car accidents. According to the MEP, a thousand 797 children were killed in traffic accidents in Croatia in 2007, up to 14 years. 25 died, a thousand 772, of which 14.2% were injured with severe injuries. Most children, 16 of them, died as passengers, 8 as pedestrians, and one as drivers. In recent years, there has been an increase in child injury as a passenger. In this case, a special high responsibility is borne by adult drivers most often by parents. The possibility of further improving the safety status should also be sought in the speedier and more appropriate transport of injured persons in traffic accidents, the introduction of emergency helicopter medical assistance. That is why I am particularly sorry to mention the unrealised 2009 item, which was meant to help and improve the implementation. Data that 4000 351 people died in road traffic in Croatia from 2003 to 2009, of which 336 people died during transport to a medical facility and a thousand 359 during 30 days of car accident. The high mortality rate in the care phase of severely injured persons in car accidents is also conditioned by a poor quality and effective way of handling them in an adequate medical facility. According to the World Health Organization and the positive experiences of most EU countries, by continuing to operate the HEMS system, which allows the hospitalisation of difficult patients within one hour. It's that gold watch. Mortality decreases by 30% which in our situation would result in saving 400 lives, meaning over a period of seven years. For each commendation, the action "Stop Unsecured Vehicles" which resulted in a change of trend in the number of unsecured vehicles for the second half of last year, and the beginning of this year records the stagnation and that is a good sign. And finally, despite the fact that Croatian roads almost daily collect new victims, statistics from the Ministry of Interior that the situation is finally being repaired. The number of people killed in transport to 100 thousand inhabitants from the former 15 has been reduced to 12, with guidelines set out in the 2006 National Road Traffic Programme. The aim of this programme is the number of consciousness deaths to less than 600 and niche, i.e. To reduce the number of people killed to 10 people killed to 100,000. Europe's goal is 7 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. Traffic security makes three important factors. Traffic, vehicles and roads participants. The blame for accidents often falls on drivers where the continuous rise in the traffic culture of all participants, especially the driver can quickly reduce black statistical indicators. However, experts warn, and we also know that much more must be invested in improving infrastructure, as well as continuous monitoring of vehicles, especially those without insurance and registration, often taking part in transport. The HNS club, HSU, will accept the 2009 road safety report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55842	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. Mr. Representative Milivoy Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55843	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on the implementation of the National Road Transport Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. The results that we can read from the 2009 report on the implementation of the National Road Traffic Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia clearly show that its adoption of a joint plan of important strategic activities and the interdisciplinary approach applied therein, which has led to the mobilisation of a whole series of different entities, from the state institutions of citizens' associations, professional associations, media, in its implementation was indeed a full hit. It cannot be seen in the numbering indicators in the report immediately that in 2009, the number of fatalities in traffic accidents was reduced to the level of 1965. If we could just go back to the Zagreb streets with our memories, that '65. and compared the number of cars then and the traffic jams that we witness today, it is clear that it is well-implemented preventive but also repressive measures that the number of people killed on our roads compared to 2008, we would say by 17.5%. But although 116 people died less than last year, 548 deaths are still a large number because, we will all agree, and one lost life too. That's why it's still coming, I think I can say, a real struggle to achieve the goal that led to this national programme being passed, which is 10 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. Any support to this effort is necessary and necessary, just as it is necessary for everyone who can contribute to this in any way, and this is precisely why the national programme in which the results depend not only on the Ministry of Interior and the good work of the Transport Police, but also on a whole series of other participants. As more than 50% of fatal accidents persisted, it is clear that it is necessary to strengthen preventive-repressive measures precisely against such traffic participants, which is also foreseen by this programme. We have serious work to do to contain the appearance of alcoholic drivers. The return of a permitted 0.5 promila did not prove to be a reason for a greater share of traffic accidents, but the view of driving in an alcoholised state is still, unfortunately, still in our society a generally acceptable position. There's a big job coming up that I think should start working far before the driver becomes a proud driver of the driver's license, so we can say more in kindergarten. Without a change of attitude, there will be no major shifts, although the frequent preventive-repressive actions of the Transport Police certainly yield results, especially in young drivers. So from personal experience, they can testify that when it comes to evening and night trips of young people, they are increasingly fortunate to hear their mutual arrangements that the one who takes responsibility for driving will not consume alcohol. Speaking of young drivers, and in recent years we have really talked about this often and very much, finally the good news. I believe that anyone who has read this report has sincerely been pleased with the fact that this age group has decreased its share in all traffic accidents and casualties. After a number of complaints which we have been exposed to by future young drivers related to certain restrictions, it seems that it has been good to endure and that, just as this report points out, the most prominent achievement for which the actors who contributed to it should be commended. With the coming of a nice time, the first sunny days of the day’s informative show, as a written rule, we welcome with chills and discomfort because very often the first minutes are reserved for tragic accidents with killed motorcyclists. Even though the number of deaths died here compared to 2008 decreased by 22%, and even more on mopeds, by almost 35%, activity in prevention when it comes to this target group must not be reduced at all. Co-operation with motoclubs, which in Croatia really has a large number, have obviously produced results and the working group of the national programme should continue to encourage them to work on the education of their members themselves. And finally, the only thing I find disturbing from this report, and it also points out is the increase in the number of children killed in car accidents in which they were passengers and their own parents. In addition to a series of activities carried out under this National Programme of Educational Programmes in cooperation with associations, radio and television videos, the data suggests that this campaign needs to be further strengthened in the future. If necessary, provide even greater financial resources because unlike other traffic participants, this group cannot protect itself and its security depends on us, so our responsibility is greater. Although most of the activities mentioned in this annual report have been carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, its employees also have the highest merits and praises. It should be said that the legislative regulation has made it possible in many ways to act more quickly and efficiently towards traffic controllers, and that it is particularly looking forward to the fact that many professional and other associations of citizens, schools and other institutions have found themselves in the implementation of the National Road Safety Programme, with the cooperation and support of the media. It is to hope, and not without reason, that with the same approach next year on our benches we will find a report with even better safety indicators on our roads. I'll support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55844	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55845	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, at the very beginning, I would like to say that I welcome the fact that the situation in 2009 is better than in the year before and I am convinced, i.e. that this is the result of having more kilometres of highways that certainly affect the reduction of the number of deaths in Croatian traffic. Regardless of the figures in this report are positive compared to previous years and the previous period, it should be noted, however, that at the end of June, 26.6 in the morning list is published an article saying that in Croatian roads the most dangerous road in Europe. This article is based on the results given by the Austrian Transport Club and where it is said, I don't think they have very reliable data that Croatia from its 150 dead per million inhabitants is a country that has the highest number of fatalities in Europe, regardless of the fact that this number is too high compared to the real situation in 2009, and I think that we must be deeply disturbed by such a finding and that we have to ask ourselves how we can get to the target, and our goal should be as it is in the European Union, which means seven or below seven dead per hundred thousand inhabitants. And I have some suggestions I'm going to make during this debate. Namely, you have concluded in your opening statement, and so it says in this report that the largest number of traffic accidents actually occur due to non-compliance with traffic rules. I think it's a key thing, that's because of human mistakes, I think it's a key thing to curbing this main cause in the principle of education. The education and, of course, the preventive criminal measures that seem to have not yielded as good results as we would expect. When we talk about education, I would like to mention that, of course, the implementation of national campaigns costs a lot of money and that there can be no national campaign if you engage in this mass media like television without any million or more kunas. However, there are other ways of very effective education of drivers and target populations using significantly smaller funds, i.e. significantly less money, and I think that perhaps their reach, the achievement of such activities is much more effective than the implementation of campaigns that we have seen in the past few years, which relate to the safety of children in transport. We see this year where special attention is devoted and means the caution of motorcyclists and things like that. What exactly am I thinking about? I think of guerrilla campaigns that are often held in European countries. They often use the Internet as a medium and are often brought down to the publication of shocking photographs, not mounted photographs, or faked photographs, but photographs that result from the meaning of real traffic accidents where people who watch such content are spread with the help of different mailing lists aware that it means real circumstances and real people who have been killed in such accidents due to their lack of attention, because of their mistakes. The fact is that such content is shocking and may be disturbing. However, to shock someone means to open his eyes and such content certainly can affect that all those who are inclined to squeeze a slightly stronger gas slipper think twice when they do it on an open road, on the highway that risks are actually put on display. It should also be said that it is positive that the number of young drivers, i.e. the age group, is reduced in all accidents and injuries. However, all of us who are users I suppose these different mailing lists, and we have had opportunities and I guess not only me but also you, for the past three to four months, have received e-mails of content where it is warned that some young drivers who have blamed the death of a young girl or even a few young girls unfortunately remained in no way punished. Young lives are lost. I don't know if there's anything to be done about it, but I think it's something that deeply offends parents and means friends and the whole community when young people who are careless about driving because of it, except that they're seniors or I don't know younger minors or that they don't stay meant to target some repressive measures and don't end up in prison especially when it comes to members of the so-called. The golden brides. Also a happy fact that the number of motorcycle victims has been reduced. However, it also upsets the data to increase the number of motorcycle victims. I guess the number of minor victims of people who drive motorcycles is because of what it means to carry a little stricter control as to wearing helmets and means that participants use more helmets than before, so I guess it happens and that, so the passengers themselves on such vehicles may still not be using enough protective equipment, or helmets as much as they should. There is also information that in 2009, there has been an increase in the number of serious injuries of children in transport, and we see that this trend continues in this year, so I would just mention that in the past period, i.e. over the past month, and a slightly greater number of cases of child injury in buses, which seems absolutely unacceptable to me, and I am asking the question of what actually seems to be in order to control, in order to carry out effective controls on vehicles carrying children and I think that such vehicles should be thrown out of special supervision. And what seems to be about the driver's control, which means they're driving the kids. And in the end, I'm going to look back at the question of solving dangerous places. I'm not happy with this part of the report because it says that, so some kind of project documentation was made for their recovery. I guess it's done in those parts where you can kind of change the direction of the road or something. But I also think it is necessary to place signs at all recorded black spots, and these are enough in cities, as well as on roads that are outside the place, or warnings in certain spaces where drivers would actually warn themselves that they are approaching so-called. black dots to pay particular attention and special care when approaching those sites. I think that in the future when you're going to write a report, you should talk in a slightly more elaborate way about what concrete measures are involved in the resolution or resolution of certain problems we face in transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55846	Mr. Representative Shime Luchin. Here you go. It was a replica, excuse me, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55847	I won't be long now, but I could've punished the vice president. My colleague's just an answer. Unfortunately, we are not dealing with one problem, which is present when it comes to vehicle technical correctness. Bus carriers are owned by technical inspection stations, and we don't have the right state of technical correctness of the vehicle. My colleague Kulusic is looking at me. Yes, owned by the carrier or in the yard of the carrier with working and other mutual obligations, and therefore the condition of the bus in public transport is such that it is not guaranteed safety and technical correctness of the vehicle after periodic examinations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55848	And Mr. Representative Sima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55849	Thank you very much. Here I am going to try to be quite brief. In fact, he probably wouldn't even be talking about this subject if I hadn't been encouraged by the secretary of state during this morning's debate on the Law on the Prevention of Disturbation on Sports Fields. He finally mentioned in his final address that various these political options, MPs etc. They see the different positioning of the Ministry of the Interior in its activities, and then, among other things, he said that some think that we should say when it comes to road safety, so if you want a national programme, the Ministry of Transport should be preferred, and, let's say, when it comes to auto-schools, how should we prefer the Ministry of Science, or that ministry, an education sorry they do. Now my question simply reads and where the logical conclusion is that the Ministry of Transport is engaged among other things, and that is the education of the auto school to deal with the Ministry of Education. In fact, I'm going to take this opportunity to point out that this is the last year of the national programme. Perhaps you should consider a national programme for the next period when targets are set at the government, when priorities are established, that we may discuss the national programme here and in the Parliament. I think that way this national programme would gain both weight and importance. Secondly, I would also remind you that on the subject of security and implementation of this national programme we did not discuss until two years ago in the Croatian Parliament. In this way, I still think it gives meaning to all of it. So let me get back to the original thought. I think it's a good thing the Home Office, the police, especially the traffic police are doing their job. And what this job is doing here after a long time is starting to produce certain results. But that's not enough. That's not enough. I think the police have too much of their jobs and obligations to deal with, say, the identification and resolution of dangerous places on the roads, I don't know that it would be about the control and education of people in traffic. When you keep in mind one fact, which is that children in traffic are still the most vulnerable group, that motorists and cyclists who are young again and also children most vulnerable in transport, it is obvious that what some colleagues should have said was necessary to pay attention to the group in terms of education. So I end up in a way that once again I call on the Secretary of State, or the Ministry of the Interior to consider a new model of the national programme, I think that it must be a new model, this one clearly has shown all its shortcomings both in terms of funding and in terms of everything that is now, that I am not repeating myself and not referring to myself as a priority. In order for it to be good for one such new model, i.e. with new objectives and a new national programme for the next four years or five years to come to the debate in the Croatian Parliament, and to try to adopt it in a certain way because then it would gain weight and I believe that everyone would then be standing no matter what I was talking about earlier, and how someone sees something, where someone should be, which ministry, which resolution, actually, would result in a larger result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55850	Thank you. And final review, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55851	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I thank all the MPs who have commented on this report, because from all the debates it has been evident that there is an interest in everyone that good results, good data really do not dispute, do not relativise, but to give recognition to those who have made their contribution, that they are who they are. Of course it can and must be better, I think that's what Agent Denon said, that we can't hide behind statistical data, because while so many people are still dying on the roads, there can't and there can't be room for pleasure. I would just like to say in short, or in short, that, in addition to these data, measures and activities presented in this report, the Ministry of the Interior is doing a number of other activities that certainly have contributed to the fact that road safety trends are better in the past year than in previous years and in the previous period. The Ministry of Home Affairs said I would start running order and in the training system of new drivers in auto-schools, and during this previous period we really introduced order, we reduced the number of auto-schools, primarily those who didn't work very well, who didn't have the equipment, who didn't have the necessary personnel, who couldn't properly educate the students of the car school, and that certainly contributed to the same significant part of the information that we had less dead among young drivers. We have also gone to better quality setting up a network of test centres, in order to contribute to a good check and issue of marketing authorisations, i.e. to the world of drivers. We also did I would say a good step in the field of technical subjects, but here I must say that the fact that the MUP contributed to having less technically invalid vehicles in traffic, and among those vehicles that caused traffic accidents, insurance companies did not follow us in that direction. Insurance houses have conditioned us, i.e. the MUP, that they will participate financially in the financing of the national road safety programme if there is direct correlation, if they as insurance undertakings have less unsecured vehicles, if there is less damage that they must pay. I responsibly argue that the MUP has certainly made a significant step here, we have fewer traffic accidents, we have fewer traffic accidents in which technically invalid or unsecured vehicles participate, and I would call on insurance companies to also make a financial contribution to the National Road Safety Programme, follow and positive trends and activities. As far as dangerous places are concerned, what she said and commented on by MP Holly and I think representative Denon, the MUP decided to take small steps but we expect to give good results anyway, so we started to equip the obvious teams in the MUP with GPS devices that you can know exactly which place, but not more in some relations a mile closer or further, than that we can detect exactly which places in a meter of traffic accidents with the most difficult consequences and that we can really be completely objective in marking these dangerous places as those places that are dangerous and which need to be paid attention. We also started to purchase together with the Croatian highways of two helicopters that will be used to regulate traffic in critical periods, but, if necessary, to quickly evacuate the most badly injured road users. In short, it means other than these measures that we have presented to you in this report, the Ministry of the Interior is also taking a number of other measures that are primarily measures of activity from our daily activities, obligations. And I believe that these activities that have not been counted in this report will certainly make another contribution to making the situation better. And what Mr. Lucin just said was that the minister appointed a new working group to draft a new national road safety strategy for 2011. - 2015. We will continue to insist on this multidisciplinary and multi-resor approach to this problem because we do not only want to improve the state of repression, but also by making it more responsible for those who must surely have their place and who must bear a greater burden in this common goal, which is to achieve better road safety. And once again, it's final. I hope this is a good situation at the moment. With this data on today in Croatia we are below 10 people killed per 100,000 people. And this must certainly be an additional incentive for all the employees of the Ministry of the Interior, above all to continue to be hired to reach that target number. And then over the next five-year period, we begin to approach the number imposed on us by the European Union, and in the end, which should be primarily our interest and goal, which is about 7 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55852	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55853	8. Report on the implementation of the National Road Traffic Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia 2006-2010 for 2009. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the conclusion: the 2009 National Road Traffic Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia will be adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by the majority 101 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55854	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on protection against non-ionising radiation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. 571 Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Ante Zvonimir Golem will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55855	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. The protection against non-ionising radiation in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Law on the Protection of Non-ionising radiation from 1999 and by the implementing rules adopted under that law. In Croatia as well as worldwide, the number of devices that produce different types of radiation strengthens. Such devices are used in a number of human activities, economy, production, trade, transport, and communication, science, defence, medicine and household. Non-ionizing radiation involves part of the electromagnetic spectrum that in primary interactions with matter does not produce ionisation. On 12 July 1999, the European Council adopted recommendations from the European Commission to prevent the radiation of the population from being exposed to electromagnetic fields. The aim of these recommendations is to establish an EU framework for national strategies and standards of protection measures to ensure a high level of protection for workers and the population, as well as for EU legislation in relation to human exposure to non-ionising radiation. A law whose adoption is proposed aims to bring Croatia's legislative framework into line with this type of radiation with the European framework. The radiation protection law that was passed in '99. In order to ensure the health safety of all people, it is necessary to improve and modernise in accordance with scientific and scientific achievements. This can be achieved in a timely manner by identifying and identifying possible adverse effects and by preventing action, but at the very source of non-ionising radiation to prevent their occurrence. In a unique and planned way, it intends to ensure the protection of human life and health, regardless of species, intensity, origin and purpose of non-ionising radiation. This protection may be achieved by means of best pre-planned and binding treatment measures whose enforcement is in all conditions must, if not fully removed, at least lead to a situation to reduce the risk of adverse consequences. The implementation of the proposed law will not even require additional funding from the state budget, as the existing state infrastructure will be used for supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55856	Thank you. The Health and Social Care Committee, European integration, legislation? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55857	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have a very important law on protection against non-ionizing radiation. We brought one a few years ago, but very big and awake dynamics in this area are here, and the ministry has committed to passing a new law in line with the guidelines in the European Union. I would just say what non-ionizing radiation is and why this law is of particular importance to public health and public health problems. Non-ionizing radiation, unlike ionizing, cannot divide the atom, has no such energy and is therefore given less importance. However, this is not justified because the latest studies have shown that such non-ionising radiation can also lead to certain damages and that each country has to accurately regulate both radiation sources and commit the persons working with it to a certain degree of education and determine the competent legal persons that the entire system will professionally oversee. I would just mention a few in medicine and widely used non-ionizing sources for which we are never entirely sure that they can't cause serious damage. Now, let's just mention a laser that is very useful in medicine for the destruction of tissue, but which can, if used outside medicine and under uncontrollable conditions, cause serious damage. And we know that it is used in different music light events as a pointer and toy that can be bought on kiosks, and can damage the retina so irreversibly damage human vision, can lead to hyperthermia, so it can increase the temperature and coagulation of proteins and... changes, chemical changes, photochemical changes, even damage to high energies and the structure of nucleic acids DNA and RNA. The ultrasound that we use daily especially in medicine, but also beyond, all the way to construction, can damage human tissue if there's a focus of great energy. We know that the American Faculty of Pediatrics has also limited the use of diagnostic ultrasounds to unborn children in a way that uses lower energy ultrasounds, so not a power doppler, color doppler, but lower energies, and that time and number of examinations are reduced to a medically needed measure. It is also important to mention the broad-use tanning solar plants, which are often used for the beauty of appearance, so for darkening the skin, and not often enough under control, are common abuses. Exposure to ultraverted solar air increases the risk of malignant skin tumors 15 times more than exposure to the sun, and says if a person under the age of 35 is exposed to solarium, then even 75% increases the risk of melanoma. I will not continue to fear with cell phones, I will not continue to fear with malignant possible diseases whose lateness has been for a few dozen years and yet we do not know what can happen, but because of all this, the Ministry has accepted all those international recommendations from the institution, above all the International Commission for Protection against Non-ionising radiation, the World Health Organization and some European Union institutions to comply with our regulations with the European. And therefore, in a very good way, the framework for protection is set up here, and detailed protection and detailed regulations for each type of non-ionising radiation will be written in special sublegal acts adopted by the Resoring Ministry in cooperation with experts. And here it is well regulated to lay down the principles of this protection, meaning the principles of precautionaryness, reduction or interruption of exposure where necessary, the principles of exposure restriction, which means establishing the upper limit of the permitted dose, the permitted energy of exposure and ultimately, specific rules and regulations for medical sources, i.e. medical use. Perhaps it should be pointed out that it is very well-defined in the conduct of expert supervision, inspection supervision. It will also be very strictly prescribed to issue authorisations for professional tasks for authorised persons who will monitor the entire system and what is not less important, that the ministry will be led by an eyewitness of legal persons who use sources of radiation and thus be able to control them well. Perhaps the only small remark, I said on the board today, is that the suspended penalties are truly unusually high, so the fine of up to 500,000 will be fined for a violation by a legal person who, for example, does not have health or professional conditions for carrying out his activities. 500 thousand kuna is indeed a high penalty, even much higher than in ionizing radiation. Probably, not likely but certainly, the legislator was so strict that non-ionising radiation is more frequently misused, much more often than ionising, especially in economic activities such as solariums that are not controlled, etc., and this is probably due to such high penalties. In conclusion, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports such an approach, supports the law and suggests that it be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55858	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55859	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The 1999 Law on protection against non-ionising radiation, as well as a series of implementing rules, regulates protection against it in the Republic of Croatia. Today we witness the fact that we are surrounded by an increasing number of sources of radiation that in interaction with matter do not cause ionization of atoms and molecules. These radiation sources are located in objects of our everyday use such as mobiles, microwave ovens, power lines, different antennas, transmitters, solarium, lasers in health care, lasers in entertainment industry, radio and television receivers, personal computers, ultrasound devices in medicine and economy. People are therefore increasingly exposed to an increased level of radiation which increases the risk of adverse effects on human health, from uncontrolled and excess radiation, especially workers who handle these devices. The action of non-ionizing radiation, or exposure to that radiation, can be divided into three classes. First, the radiation of workers refers to adult healthy people who may be continuously or occasionally exposed to radiation during work. Second, irradiation of the population and third, medical radiation of patients for diagnostic or therapy purposes. In the national rules in the world, there is still a discrepancy with regard to the legal arrangement of certain parts of spectrum and even hesitation in the adoption of regulations in this area, as it enters into the market interests of certain groups, from manufacturers of devices that produce non-ionising radiation such as ultrasound, lasers, solaria, etc., which are interested in their unrestricted traffic and use to users who often unwittingly advocate the use of the device by ignoring or not worrying about the possibility of any harmful side effects of use. However, for the past ten years, it has been working intensively to achieve an international consensus on the principle, measures affecting transport and use and on the exposure limit for certain non-ionising radiation types. The reason is too often and uncontrollably the introduction of numerous sources of these radiations into people's lives, while at the same time there are increasing reports and knowledge of the harmful effects of these radiations. The World Health Organization has collected and published the results of scientific research in certain areas with the purpose of systematic and reasoned demonstration of possible adverse effects of non-ionising radiation, with recommendations for taking protection measures, with numerous reports and publications over many years. Such reports are the starting point for building an international and national strategy to protect against non-ionising radiation. A law whose adoption is proposed aims to bring Croatia's legislative framework into line against non-ionising radiation with European ones. The law is, as I said, passed in 1999, primarily in order to ensure the health security of all people from the adverse effects of non-ionizing radiation. This can be achieved in a timely manner by identifying and identifying possible adverse effects and by preventing action, but at the very source of non-ionising radiation to prevent their occurrence. This law is not designed as restrictive, as a regulation that will prevent the use of a number of devices that produce non-ionising radiation to the well-being of people such as ultrasound in health, radio and microwaves in telecommunications, lasers in technology are already the primary goal of regulating this area, i.e. the whole sequence from the manufacturer, supplier to end-user and handler and other persons. Everyone in their work is obliged to act in a way that ensures the greatest possible protection of human health and life. Only general issues, obligations and measures common to all non-ionising radiation are governed by the proposed law. All specificities should be detailed in the rules. That's where I'm going to underline and underline, so the rules for all the areas are necessary to bring. Otherwise, this law will remain as a very well-educated reading. And here, I'm still gonna take the chance, I'm gonna say something about cell phones. Dr. Hebrang has abstained from it, but I'm still gonna take advantage of it, so maybe they'll think about it a little bit. Telecommunications companies ignore consumer knowledge. It is important for their products to be at the highest technical level. Their new products are already on sale, they are already in use while they are still doing studies on the possible negative impact on our health. Scientists or authors who conduct these studies usually work for these telecommunications companies. So they're not independent. These studies usually take too short. If during the first five years of daily use of the cell phone there were no symptoms of any illness, it does not mean that there will be no later. Besides, we don't need to use the phone alone. It's enough that someone in our vicinity is on the phone and we're under the influence of radiation. Besides, the phone's still on the phone when it's not on the phone. A disease like Alzheimer's has only just been detected since 80% of brain cells have been destroyed, and then it's too late. More and more people become allergic to electro smog. Cases in Finland are known. Symptoms are forgetting, problems with concentration, tremors, cramps, buzzing in the head, insomnia. In addition, the stroke occurs as we see before. These persons measured in certain places the load of electromagnetic rays and documented their symptoms that were always larger and more drastic in line with higher measured values of electromagnetic radiation. Human bodies absorb high frequency wave areas, taking human tissue into account heat. The energy received shall be marked as a specific degree of absorption and measured in cotton per kilogram. People who are sensitive to electro smog when consulting doctors are diagnosed as mentally ill, followed by profit and the benefit is known to be the pharmaceutical industry. The HNS and HSU club will accept the proposal for a law on protection against non-ionising radiation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55860	Thank you very much. But this cell phone thing, it scared me. It's dangerously strong. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55861	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Non-ionizing radiation involves part of the electromagnetic spectrum that in primary interactions with matter does not create ionisation. According to an unofficial but common and accepted convention in the world, that part of the electromagnetic spectrum is divided into parts with special names. First, electromagnetic waves extremely low frequencies, then radio waves, microwaves, infrared red radiation, visible light, ultraviolet radiation. It is common in non-ionizing radiation to include static magnetic fields, and also ultrasound even though it is a completely different phenomenon according to its physical properties, actually mechanical wave. What are the biological effects and health consequences of exposure to non-ionizing radiation for humans. This depends first on the type of radiation, the second on the conditions and time of exposure and the third on personal sensitivity and other factors. I must point out that man has no sense to register non-ionizing radiation unless the intensity of radiation is so great that the initiative feels warm. Various studies and the consequences of certain reported accidents have shown local lesions, necrosis, cataracts, thermal stress from hyperthermia. Genetic effects, effects on development and deratogenic effects are also shown in individual published reports on implementation studies. There are several reports that also indicate the occurrence of chromosomal operations, changes in mitosis and cell meyosis, so also the mutagent effects especially in microwaves and ultrasounds. In a number of studies, the effects observed on the behaviour of individuals exposed to non-ionising radiation are also shown. The recommendation of the International Commission for the Protection of Non-ionising Emissions, whose work groups in the World Health Organization of Geneva are the most in favour of harmonising international recommendations and uniform standards, constitute the basis for the legal regulation of this area under national legislation. The legislative proposal lays down the principles of protection against non-ionising radiation. As the first principle of caution. It is therefore carried out by applying measures to prevent or reduce damages and effects for the life and health of persons carrying out activities with non-ionising radiation sources and persons exposed to that radiation. Furthermore, the restriction of exposure to non-ionising radiation is achieved by establishing the ceiling for permitted human exposure by these radiations and by applying the maximum levels of that radiation to be imitated by the International Commission for Protection against that radiation. The prescribed protection measures shall ensure that patients are protected by the use of a source of non-ionising radiation in medical diagnostics and therapy, as well as persons working with sources of radiation. This law under P.Z. 571 of course I'll take it and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55862	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55863	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to be very brief and this, my debate is more a matter of the secretary of state than it is for all of us, than for the real debate. I was speaking on two occasions to the Ministry of Health, on the request of a craftsman who wanted to produce one lamp, which would act viruciously based on UVC radiation. There's countless data in the literature that these radiations work like that and I don't remember all the details from the answer, but I remember at least some elements. It has been said that UVC radiation can be harmful to the eyes, it is not stated in which dose, it is said that it is not regulated by the rules in Croatia, and it seems to me that there are no standards or directives of the European Union regarding the amount of UVC radiation, for A and B is known. Now this man wanted to be as the innovator of the first to produce and thanks to the flu that was currently successful in selling clearly and earning, hiring our people and earning. He was doing it together with an Italian partner, and he didn't want the Italian to do it, but he wanted to do it right in Croatia, and everything possible, he knocked on every door to actually see what to do and how to do it. So I'm just saying this to see how sometimes the innovators find themselves, especially when something isn't regulated, when something is new, and that's why innovation is to be new and not to be, to be first. Is it possible, Mr. Secretary of State, that eventually when something like this happens, that we may call or ask someone, some expert from the European Union country that has certain, certain regulations, standards, norms, etc., to ensure that something does not happen to evil, while at the same time not preventing the production of clearly such lamps or such products because biotechnology is one area that is very fast progressing. Every day we have innovation and why not also Croatian citizens participate in this big race clearly in trying to win the market with their products. So the question is, what do you do when some regulation didn't regulate the quantum, radiation, the range of radiation allowed or anything else in this area? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55864	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55865	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a thank you. It's me, I'd just like to answer that. This is absolutely possible, but I hope that by entering Croatia into the European Union, such a question will not be necessary anymore, because everything that is in accordance with the directives will be able to work. It is one area that is still unexplored for the whole world, and also for the European Union, and I am sure that in this direction, especially with UVC air, it is clear that it was not possible to tell what the real impact would be on health. For this simple reason, as far as I know, it is not regulated at this time by the rules, or by the European Union directives, but our cooperation in this area, with the European Union countries, will certainly be better when we enter the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55866	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55867	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Protection of Non-ionizing Emissions, was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 571. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on protection against non-ionising radiation. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 103 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55868	We will discuss one more point tonight - - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty establishing a Regional School for Public Administration (RESPA), an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 554 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration Davor Ljubanovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55869	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Today, you are facing the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty establishing a Regional School for Public Administration, or a shortened RESPA. Since the provisions of the Treaty establishing a Regional School for Public Administration lay down financial obligations for the Republic of Croatia, this Treaty shall be subject to confirmation under Article 18. Laws on the enforcement and conclusion of international contracts. In this case, it is a contract signed in Podgorica on 21 November 2008 by the State Secretary of State of the Central Government, since it is an initiative, which was highlighted in 2003, at a meeting in Thessaloniki between representatives of the European Union and countries located in our environment, so-called The Western Balkans. The objective of the Treaty, i.e. the objective of this initiative, is to create a framework within which cooperation will be improved in the field of public administration, to promote cooperation between public administration institutions between the Member States of the Regional School for Public Administration and similar institutions in the Member States of the European Union, where human potential in public administration will develop in accordance with the principles of the European Administrative Area, as well as the training systems of public officials through summer and winter school seminars, to analyse regional education needs with a view to identifying those needs that could be successfully implemented at regional level. The establishment of this agreement will take effect and, by its ratification by 5 member states, it will enter into force and will establish a regional public administration school based in Danilovgrad, Montenegro. For the establishment of this school, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the state budget has already provided for the 2009 amount of 120 thousand euros, for the first year of action, and for the second year 150 thousand euros, which have not therefore been used, since the conditions for ratification of this contract were not yet created in 2009. That would be basic for that school. I propose here is the adoption of this law and the confirmation of a contract for the establishment of a Regional School for Public Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55870	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55871	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Regional School of Public Administration Treaty in a co-loquial and short term called RESPA, which should not be surprised because Croatia has already attended a meeting of the European Union and the countries of the so-called European Union in 2003. The Western Balkans in Thessaloniki, therefore, were more precisely in June 2003, with relatively severe opposition from today's promoter and then opposition. Here's a game of fate or not just her, the fact is that then opposers of the adoption of such a bill or a general initiative on the creation of a regional public administration school are now also promoters of a contract on the establishment of this school. So, to mention, there are all the countries of the former Yugoslavia except for Slovenia that have gone far and far on public administration issues. When we talk about confirming a contract for the establishment of a regional public administration school, it is noted that it is back some time at the Ministry of Administration and established a Centre for the Education of People in Public Administration which should certainly be welcomed. The question, however, is how much this centre will really grow into a public administration school. It may be too ambitious to say something similar to the example of a French school of public administration far more famous than even their law schools. But in any case, that's what it's supposed to be. But not to be educated for the sake of education itself, but to simply modernise in terms of what we are all here and those who are not here promise to the citizens when they come to power that they will make a small efficient administration, a administration that will be available to the citizens and right in its service. However, as far away as we are from such a normal state for light years, perhaps the best witness I have is the Public Advocate who is very bold and true, it is also his duty to draw the state of our public administration and therefore earned some kind of punishment, so that the ruling did not accept the report as accepted by the other reports and the Advocate General for Gender Equality, the Ombudsman for the children, but the Ombudsman received an assessment because he was the bearer of this news, or reminded of the serious situation that we have in the state administration. The fact is, as it stands, that so far experience and practice in the application of the law to note that the Law on Administrative Disputes and Administrative Procedures has entered into force on 1 January 2010 and that its effects will continue to be monitored, i.e. only now can we monitor it. But in any case, regardless of all this experience and practice so far in the application of the law, and as part of the reform of the state administration and in cooperation with foreign experts where we have aligned laws with the acquis of the European Union, it has shown that some of the key changes that should remove the causes of the poor situation in the administration are difficult to achieve. So, as the Ombudsman also points out, legal assumptions have been created for the depolitisation of the administration and the number of political appointed officials in the administration has been limited to the necessary changes, unfortunately, did not occur. The Ombudsman warns the Government that, contrary to the principles of intensities and legislative changes to its regulation, the Government itself has made it possible for political appointed officials to remain in key management duties under more favourable conditions of competition than those applied to other civil servants. Such a practice can hardly break the vicious cycle of shifts and setting up "their" political-like and personally loyal possible electoral changes and changes at the head of administrative bodies. Therefore, there remains a huge problem of politicising the management layer as one of the key and major causes, in fact the main cause of clientelism and political corruption, and thus riots, impunity, non-arbitivity and irresponsibility towards citizens. It is therefore important and consistent to implement all the principles and provisions of new and amended laws in the system of state administration. Depolitisation and completion of the normative framework relating to recruitment, award, improvement and the promotion of civil servants as well as the creation of institutional material assumptions for its full application in practice should be strengthened and the continuity of professionalism and impartiality and ethics in the management system should be enhanced. You can also see here in the explicit provision of this proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Establishment of RESPA Article 20 summed it up exactly in a very simple way. He bears the name Conditions of Employment. "Employment, selection, promotion and all other management of employees will be based on labour and will respect the right to equal access to employment, justice, transparency, diversity", well now because of the specificity of RESPA itself, as they learn more and more countries and representations of all members of RESPA. So how simple these principles are and what makes it so difficult to apply. And a good rule is that rule that is just... that is calculating and predictable, which does not depend on the personnel combination of this or that political set. And we are still struggling with judicial reform, but the right to reform the judiciary, or reform the administration, is a prerequisite for judicial reform. I would dare say that the reform of the judiciary has advanced much more than the administration. And that's why we still have a large number of cases today that result in the failures of the administration. There is no doubt that only the adoption of such a law, or one regional co-operation, will lead to a political climate, that what is happening in the region will also make simple countries forced and forced to make their administration just like this, transparent, open, calculating, open to people who want to build their political career there. We meet exactly the situation where we have an army of paid officials who are often unmotivated, although demoted, that a large number of officials, that such a situation has atrophied precisely in recent years when a large number of people are employed in the administration, that it should be put to an end. After all, it is unfair and incorrect to people in the administration themselves who are essentially doing the whole part of the work, and one good part that has come there by different criteria, only those who are here transparently mentioned in Article 20, are practically obstructing the work. It may also be noted that Austria, which does not know the silence of the administration a few years ago, had tried a pilot program to reward its employees and tenants, so the people of the state administration fairly. This means that they themselves have noticed even though they do not have the silence of the administration and all requirements are resolved within the legal period that there is, after all, so-called. Engines that run the whole thing so that there's... people who have the same salary, of course, on the same level without being as up-to-date as you. motors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So she made such a pilot project that she determined that everyone in a particular pay grade would have minimum wage, but that they could double it in terms of the number of cases solved. And then there was this jag behind the objects, and they even broke into each other's closets so that they practically started acting like privates, and the more they solved things, the more they were rewarded. So as long as we don't have it, that's one motivational maybe the best element, so the pay depends on how many employees they are, how many tenants have solved the number of cases. So what's famous, come tomorrow in the most efficient way possible and in the cheapest, although it seems that this extra reward would deprive the state, I believe it's the most, i.e. at the SDP club, we're convinced that it's the cheapest way, especially because you have satisfied citizens, you have motivated officials, you've furnished, and then you're in the end line helping and reforming the judiciary because these cases don't get in court. Here, the SDP club supports the adoption of a law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55872	Thank you. HDZ Representatives' Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of a Law confirming the Treaty establishing a Regional School for Public Administration. Looking beyond this law, which confirms the treaty, we could put and classify in the context of several strategic documents, such as the State Administration Reform Strategy, the Human Resources Development Strategy in the State Administration, the Corruption Prevention Strategy, the Professional Training Strategy and the Compensation of Civil Servants, finally and the Economic Recovery Programme, which also provides for a reduction in costs and an increase in efficiency and expertise, in principle, of one new to two gone. And of course that one new one could replace the quality of two gone must be for so much more efficient and able and educated. Mrs. Representative can lift that tablet if she has anything to say. So all this, as well as the Economic Recovery Programme, provides for an education plan for public administration staff on European institutions, European regulations and procedures. All these strategic documents are undergoing the principle of the need for permanent education, so they provide for and adopt provisions on duties, hence obligations and the provision of permanent education. Today not only is it a notary fact that, after formal education, continued education and training of knowledge and skills are necessary, but the Law on civil servants and provides for such obligations for all civil servants for personal development and career advancement, and of course all in order to increase the efficiency and quality of work in the state administration. At national level, the organisational framework for professional training and training of civil servants was established by the establishment of the Centre for Professional Training and Training of Employees at the Ministry of Administration with the status of the Institute and, as we have heard here today, there are 120 programmes and over the past year, around 9,000 participants and civil servants have been through this education. It is doubtless that administrative subjects and work in the state service are becoming increasingly complex, mainly in view of the expansion of the legal sources of international law, the rights of the European Union and require better educational preparation and continuous training and education. As part of this, we also believe that this law on the confirmation of contracts is welcome to institutionalise inter-state regional cooperation in the education of civil and public servants. It is true that the European Union, its institutions and the governments of the European states, are constantly promoting cooperation in the Southeastern Europe area, in a way, wanting to classify this area, i.e. to ensure that it is as uniformly administrative, legal and economic, i.e. an area of equal standards as possible in all these areas. The initiative to create a formal framework for this co-operation was launched in Thessaloniki in exactly 2003, but at a meeting of the European Union with the countries of Southeastern Europe, i.e. these countries as a colleague of the former Yugoslavia without Slovenia, the creation of international institutions or organisations and, in particular, if this is multilateral cooperation, of course requires his time of negotiations and agreements until the final signing and ratification of the treaty, so in May 2006, a protocol on cooperation was signed, and since then these members of this treaty have actually collaborated through a network of national institutions, and then they are further implemented until 2008 when the procedure for the conclusion of a regional school contract was launched, and since the signing of five contract members has started to act with legal personality in Montenegro, based in the city of Danil, and since this contract has resulted in financial commitments for the Republic of Croatia. This Treaty therefore regulates the principles of the activities of the body of the organisation, jurisdiction, action and funding of the regional school. The purpose of the contract is to create a legal framework for the development of cooperation in the field of public administration education, member states and their cooperation with the institutions of the European Union in order to strengthen the administrative capacity and efficiency of public services in line with the needs of European integration and acceptance of the acquis of the European Union as well as European standards. The objectives of the regional school are to improve cooperation and to strengthen exchanges with EU countries and European economic space, to develop human potential in Member States in line with European Union standards, to strengthen administrative capacity in Member States in accordance with European standards, and to analyse regional needs for education, training of public servants, to improve and institutionalise systems, to train and education, to improve the availability of systems in Member States, to establish common training methodologies and educational materials, to exchange networks and common practices and experiences. This Treaty provides for a regional school to be open to extending membership to other candidate countries and potential candidates for membership in the European Union, and governance and funding is set up on the principle of consensus and equality in rights and obligations, which means that the Management Board consists of one representative from each Member State and funding is foreseen on the principle of equal contribution by all Member States, which is approximately to be estimated at around five million kuna per year. And that's what it's called. the cold drive, and the activities or programmes themselves would be financed or predicted to be possible and expected to be financed by donors in such a way as to manage activities and projects themselves or to pay the school for its direct availability. It is foreseen that the contract lasts seven years with the possibility of cancelling each member of the contract with a certain cancellation period, which is logical in view of the need to plan activities. Therefore, there must also be a certain cancellation date for the exit from that contract. Of course it is expected, we also heard from the promoters that the European Union has invested around 2m euros in the activities of this school in the past year, if I have remembered it well. So it is expected that these funds will continue to arrive to finance the programmes that would take place. And through education in that school where education is expected at a higher level of training, i.e. European law and European standards. And final. Given the undisputed need for permanent education and training of work skills in order to strengthen the efficiency and integrity of civil servants, which should also be taken into account in particular. We support this law as a club with one question or suggestion to the proposer. Namely, this RESPA shortcut sounds good, it's easy to say, it's nice to handle it. But I don't know what the linguists say, so maybe the nomotechnics will say that the law, what's called the Law on Confirming the Treaty on the Establishment of a Regional School for Public Administration, is the Croatian name of this school, and behind that is a shortcut to the English name. So maybe it's awkward or awkward because this shortcut doesn't reflect this name that's ahead of it, so maybe you should think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55874	Thank you. Well, we can cut that off. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55875	Honorable Vice President, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here are the conclusions of another European Council in Madrid in December '95. For the first time in fact, the relevant administrative capacity is mentioned as explicit criteria for accession. It's only summer of '97. In the case of the accession of ten Central and Eastern European countries, administrative capacities have been used as a separate criterion. In the opinion of individual candidates, the recommendations concerned not only the administrative capacity of adoption and of certain parts, but also the need for general development of their administrative systems. There are clear remarks as to what standards public administration, individual countries must meet. In addition to assessing the administrative capacity of a particular country to implement the policy of certain key sectors, the Commission has now brought and provided general instructions for administrative capacity. The Sigma, as a joint initiative of the OECD and the European Union, interprets the European Union's request in relation to transition countries, codifies and formulates administrative standards, and assesses the administrative capacities and the ability to apply the European Union regulation and national legislation by the administration of transition countries. As regards official legislation, the recommendations and the criteria of the Sigma judgment are as follows: clear distinction between political and official positions in the administration in order to ensure the depoliticalised public administration, employment and promotion in the service must be based on competence and competence in order to improve the professional level of public administration. A hierarchical subordination in an administrative organisation with external control of legality in order to strengthen the lines of responsibility, quality regulation of duties and management of officials of particular responsibilities of political neutrality and honesty, effective regulation of the processing of complaints of officials and the protection of their official rights, as well as regulation of the assessment of the work of officials with sufficient guarantees so that officials can protect themselves from unfair assessments. The payment system should be established by law, transparent, and with a small degree of freedom of manager in determining the salary of an individual official. The project itself of establishing the Regional School for Public Administration as we call here the English name RESPA initiating the Thessaloniki Agenda of 2003 and in May 2006 the countries mentioned signed a cooperation protocol. In accordance with the objectives set out in the Protocol, a number of activities have been carried out between 2006 and 2008, and all necessary preconditions have been created for the transition to the second phase of development in which RESPA was to become an international organisation, i.e. a professional public administration school, which will actively cooperate with national public administration schools based on an analysis of regional needs for education, design, organise and implement education programmes and public officials. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 14 November 2008 opened a procedure for the conclusion of a contract for the establishment of a Regional School for Public Administration. The Treaty establishing a Regional School for Public Administration constitutes a legal basis allowing the Republic of Croatia to participate in the processes and activities to be carried out in accordance with the agreed commitments and will address the improvement of cooperation in the field of public administration between the members of RESPA, the promotion of cooperation between the institutions of the public administration of RESPA and similar institutions in the Member States of the European Union. The development of human potential in the public administration of RESPA members in accordance with the principles of the European administrative space of training systems for civil servants through summer and winter school seminars, by analysing the regional need for education with the aim of identifying those education needs that could be successfully implemented at regional level. And they focus on strengthening administrative capacity, their public administration, exchange... information through web sites, the creation of a joint electronic library and the publication of specialized publications, and the development of methodological guidelines for effective training, various training materials, and strengthening the research base of teaching and education between their public administrations. [[You don't understand.]] RESPA is particularly important for the reason that Croatia is among the few countries that have no public or private educational institution for the professional training of administrative staff, and the basic assumption of neutral and professional administration lies in the high expertise of officials who are capable of solving increasingly complex and public problems. Therefore, various trainings, seminars and summer and winter schools are welcome, and forms of training of officials and public administrations to adopt and implement the principles of European governance. From all this stated club, the Croatian Peasant Party supports the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty establishing a Regional School for Public Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55876	Thank you. One correction, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55877	I'll just say one little correction. You said there is no public administration and study school in Croatia. There is, in 2005, the government set up a social university where public administration studies exist. I'll talk about it a little bit more in an individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55878	The club of representatives of HNS, HSU, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55879	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Given that this is both first and second reading, I will spend just two minutes reading to say more about cooperation in these areas, not only in this area, but also in other areas, because we have a rare opportunity to talk about what is not good, and it is particularly bad that we fail to coordinate our work on the Council of Europe, with colleagues from the IPU, with colleagues from the OSCE, with colleagues from NATO, etc., from the NATO Assembly, and this is an opportunity to at least touch some of these topics. We all remember when the leaders of the European Union met in Thessaloniki in 2003, that one of the conclusions that was made at the time was, that the place of all the countries of Southeast Europe was in the European Union, and then the leaders of the European Union said that they would very much like cooperation in the most diverse areas to be much more intense, much more quality. And I have to say that there really has been a shift, a significant shift, as regards cooperation at parliament level somewhere in the middle of this decade, the formation of so-called. ... In fact, parliamentary committees on European integration, all member states from the former Yugoslavia, plus Albania, meet regularly. [[You don't understand.]] This clearly conveys experience, especially our delegation, and the Macedonian delegation, because we are candidate countries, we are taking part in the European project of this kind, therefore we are transferring this European experience to other countries, and I think that's good. That's really good, and you need to support that work. Vice-President Mimica is headed by our little delegation, and he is always leading our parliamentary delegation to the KOSAP meetings. It should then be said that there are also significant developments at the level of local and regional authorities, which are for every praise. Cross-border cooperation, for example, is an example of the Adriatic Euroregion, which is partly funded by the European Union, a good example of such cooperation. Forming and finding, it is a community of all units of local self-government from Southeast European countries, and what is bad, however, that the Republic of Croatia is not through its community of cities, i.e. the association of cities participated, decided to participate in the project, so that we remain our own free will beyond that system, which I think is not good at. Here today we have another possible form of cooperation, we want to clearly ratify this agreement on the formation of a Regional School for Public Administration and a club of HNS, HSU will support it, but not without objection. In fact, colleagues and colleagues, we really need to say that 150 thousand euros may not be big money, but on the other hand, it is big money, especially if we know that in the last 7,8 months we have stopped funding regularly in Croatia, at Croatian universities as many as 2,000 299 scientific projects. It's something that's not good. So we shut down one system, open another. The Minister of Science and Education also decided not to finance projects under the Seventh Framework Programme. So the European Union gives most of the funds, and Croatia has financed with 100 thousand kuna each of these projects. Our participation was suspended from 1.7 last year. As a scientist, I have to tell you that 150 thousand euros, so about a million kuna, is a lot of money for us scientists and people who work in school. On average, one project in Croatia is funded with about 80,000 kuna. So that's enough money for 15 scientific projects. Just before we heard there are schools for public administration in Croatia. You also pay the highest quality experts from Western Europe for 100, 200 euros will teach you very well per hour. How many hours will you be able to do for 150,000 euros? It's a huge number. Hundreds, hundreds, and hundreds of hours of top quality teaching. Therefore, I am not against us working with co-workers from Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia, etc. But I must tell you that with this money, we could have made very, very significant shifts in the quality of teaching and in the training of our officers. What I'd like to ask the secretary to tell us is that we couldn't read it out of the text. Public administration and state administration are not synonyms. Many of us will say that public administration is a broader concept and that it probably includes employees of people who work both in local and county self-government. If so, how will you include the county or local self-government? Is there a deal with them? Do they participate in a certain amount? On what key will they engage with civil servants in the process? So we are certainly interested in seeing how comprehensive this project will be, and how much will it contribute not only to the state self-government but also to local and regional self-government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55880	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. She's gone. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55881	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Treaty establishing a Regional School for Public Administration, which confirms the Treaty establishing a Regional School in order to make its provisions an integral part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. A contract to establish a regional public administration school was signed in Podgorica in November 2008. Its provisions lay down financial obligations for the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with Article 18 thereof. The law on the enforcement and conclusion of international contracts shall be subject to the validation procedure. Confirmation of an international contract, state and formally express its willingness to be tied to the signed international contract, and given the fact that amendments and additions to the text of the international contract can no longer be made, and that certain activities for party signatories will be carried out during 2010, the need for the adoption of laws by emergency procedure is seen. This Treaty provides the Republic of Croatia with a legal basis for participation in processes and activities to be carried out in accordance with the commitments undertaken, which relate to the improvement of public administration cooperation between members of the regional public administration school, the promotion of cooperation between public administration institutions, members of the regional public administration school and similar institutions in the Member States of the European Union. Development of human potential in public administration, implementation of training systems for public servants through seminars, schools, analysis of regional needs for education, exchange of information, and strengthening the research base, teaching and education between public administrations. For this purpose, and in order to strengthen the administrative capacity of the public administrations of the contracted parties in accordance with the requirements of the European integration process, I support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty establishing a Regional School for Public Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55882	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. He's gone. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55883	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the very beginning, I would like to say that I will support the adoption of this law, because I believe that every step we take is a more efficient and quality public administration of Croatia's need. Unfortunately, the troma, a massive administration above all, has been a stone around Croatia for many years, a problem that has not been effectively addressed by any government so far. At a time of economic crisis where it is necessary to turn each kuna several times, the problem is even bigger and more unpleasant. The citizens and citizens of Croatia are extremely unhappy with the public administration and are reasonably expecting the government to deal with this problem. The government has persistently avoided facing and solving this problem, and Croatia is increasingly sinking to death and deathlessness. Although this law, or ratification of this contract, does not even constitute a shy indication of the government's desire to deal with this extremely serious Croatian problem, any education that goes in the direction of promotion and the idea of public administration as a service of citizens and citizens, rather than a proud apparatus which unfortunately became its own purpose, is still a positive change. I had the opportunity to work in the ministry for several years, and working in the body of the public authorities, I saw how burdensome public administration is with problems, how few among officials and officials and tenants there are very few of them I would say a sad number of those who and who think that public administration should be the service of citizens and citizens, not their own purpose. I am afraid that this belief largely prevails between leaders and leaders, officials and officials, ministers and ministers, and that few understand what democratic governance means, and even less knows what good governance means. This means that the ruling Croatian political space is dominated by the traditional pattern of government of state units of local or regional self-government that implies centralisation and firm hierarchy from top to bottom. Modern democratic societies seek a completely different model of public administration that does not apply the principles of governance, but principles of governance. What does it mean to manage rather than rule in terms of public administration? This means in the first place a more responsible, more efficient management of taxpayers' money, a public administration that costs less and more. Public administration becomes a service of satisfied citizens and citizens in which they work responsible and efficient and highly professional officials and officials. Unfortunately, Croatia has not yet met one of the key conditions of public authorities, not the government, which is the rule of law that ensures the legal certainty of all citizens and citizens. The Croatian Parliament must pass better laws, and it is the responsibility of the executive to ensure that these laws are implemented by all citizens of Croatia under the same conditions without the privilege or discrimination of individuals or groups. Unfortunately, every report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information tells us how important this law is in our country for every modern democratic and open society is, in fact, a law of decoration, the law of the declarative type, the law we have, but the governing set does not implement it, and there is no intention to implement it in the future. In Croatia and public participation in the political decision-making process despite the existence of laws guaranteeing such participation, there is no respect for or financing for participation in the implementation of pro-formal public debates which do not result in any significant corrections and improvements in laws and documents. Croatia is also still a highly centralised country, which means that the Constitution guarantees the principle of subsidiarity is not implemented in practice because the banal problems and issues that plague the population are very far from them, without any possibility of deciding in reality about their fate. In addition to these listed facts, which are a huge obstacle to the realization of the idea of a transparent, efficient public administration that manages, and not the government, in Croatia we face a whole series of other absurdities that I doubt could happen elsewhere. In particular, I am referring to the case of the social university of Gundulić 10 in Zagreb which, although established by the government regulation in 2005 and in order to reform and adapt to the European administration system and each year enroll students and students with the support of the competent ministry, also spends the money of all Croatian citizens and citizens, their testimony unfortunately does not allow them to work in public authorities institutions, and for which they are educated. Namely, when students and students complete their studies of public administration and obtain a diploma or a certificate, they shall be named first grader or first-rate public administration with which they cannot compete at any of the jobs offered on the market or in the public or private sector, in accordance with the systematisation for civil servants and tenants, as well as at the workplace of local or regional self-government. Further education has been disabled for these persons as the Higher Education Agency has not granted a permit for their further education programme, thereby further preventing their competition on the labour market. Therefore, although the government established a social university precisely to train new staff for reform and modernisation of the state administration and to spend taxpayers' and taxpayers' money, the Government did nothing to enable the employment of these persons in public authorities, i.e. it did not modify the systematisation for civil servants and subsistence, it did not send a guide to the authorities of local and regional self-government with information on the existence of such personnel. And as long as the authorities are as irrational and disorganized as they are, the head doesn't know what their hands are doing to her effectively and transparent public administration will remain our unsuspecting dream. And I would therefore like to believe that this law points to the sincere commitment of the Government to finally pursue such a modern and democratic model of public administration, but unfortunately our daily practice and absurdities that we face indicate that for the ruling political elite the desire to establish an efficient, transparent and significantly cheaper public administration is only a parole or a transparency for the international community of European bureaucrats. I hope that future government moves and practice will deny me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55884	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55885	My colleague Holly, I think you've really guessed the essence of one part of the problem we're discussing today. Croatia is even one in this matter, namely that we are indeed a centralized state. We in Parliament today are discussing this school, and we could have solved a lot a long time ago that we allowed the county through cross-border cooperation with the Hungarians, with Slovenians, with the Italians, to share the best experiences, and also to improve the work of its officials, but where does it go? I don't know if you know that Croatia has never signed the first protocol, nor the second protocol, nor the third protocol on... a convention on cross-border cooperation that is currently talking about mechanisms to achieve this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we are not even what 90% of European countries have done, we are not and unfortunately do not make bilateral agreements with these countries to allow just such cross-border cooperation between local and regional self-government units. Thus, it is an area of principle that you should certainly discuss in the future and try to change a lot in our behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55886	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55887	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I actually wanted to mention in my speech very briefly this case of social university and public administration students. They were here at our Parliament. In addition to my colleague Holly and I here for the interview were Mrs Lovrin, counterpart Salapic, Mrs Šimac-Bonačić, so we weren't just a few of us and they really exposed the big problem. I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, to give us some answers so that we can answer them, what can they actually do as prime ministers in the state? They did not enroll that study because they might just like it, they said, as counterpart Holly said, enrolled a study at a university founded by the government and which the government mostly pays for and tuitions. In one occasion they signed a petition, it is a petition of 1200 signatures of students and students of public administration and tax studies who ask that we actually do something so that they don't waste their time on studies because they can't write any more specialist studies to get a master's degree in the profession, which is some equivalent to the previous high-end professional preparation, so a four-year study, and with the current high school degree simply no one can get a job. So I would actually like to hear the answer from the secretary of state whether and when, in fact, reforming the system of systematization of public administration jobs so that people who have first-rate diplomas, who study at the public administration study, which I repeat, were founded by the state and the state in most cases paid tuition for them, that these people could do what they were doing because that is why they were founded. Because it's really a little absurd to set up international or joint institutions that have to do with public administration education with other countries, to use a lot of money to do that. I think that in his debate, Doric put quite well the relation of how big money it is when we compare the other money that is invested in science and education, and that on the other hand in Croatia we have something that exists, something that works. Then these people, we're training them for the stock market, it just doesn't make sense to educate people for the stock market. The more the Deputy Prime Minister herself, Mrs. Kosor, said at the government meeting that we should start in Croatia, or the executive body, probably the education ministry, that the establishment of a special higher education university should be launched. We've got it all. So I'm really calling somewhere as an advocate, on behalf of all these students and these young people who were here to talk to us about actually doing something so that they don't end up on the market after their schooling, but end up in public administration, a job they're actually educated for, and a job they're educated for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55888	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration Davor Ljubanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55889	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, I would first of all like to say that I am glad that there is a consensus that there is a need for further education and permanent education of public officials. In any case, this bill goes that way, and I'm glad you'll support it. What I would like to say further perhaps and another question has been raised, so public or state administration in English is public administration. So it could be translated as public and that's how we translate. In this sense, the intensity is that these education programs, which are so far practical, are days of training, so to call them depending on the subject that it is about being available to everyone. For the time being, it was mostly done by civil servants, but the idea of being involved then, given that a small number so far has been in three years about 165 civil servants from the Republic of Croatia were from local self-government, but these were more exceptions than the rule that they participate. In the third phase of the development of RESPA, it is expected to grow into an academic institution where study programmes will be, but we will see how far they will come. This depends on other Member States of the regional school and therefore on joint work and efforts to develop that school. If I may only refer to the first-graders. Yeah, there's definitely a problem with employment. On the basis of the 2005 State Officials Act, the Ministry of Administration adopted sublegal regulations governing this issue, and which are updated to say and introduce these Bologna degrees into regulations. However, it is now up to the resolution ministries, i.e. the authorities of the administration, to comply with their internal order regulations. What we are currently working on as part of the strategy for reforming the state administration, and then the strategy for developing human potential, is also the Law on wages that is missing as the last link to change this system in which the Law on State officials and sublaws and the depolitisation of the state administration is implemented in a good way, and now it has been implemented, we can now talk about nuances and it is definitely good. I'd like to say that when we talk about this, the Centre for Professional Training and Comprovement, so here's a catalogue. This year we celebrated five years of this centre, 9000 so from zero officials to 9000, from 0 programs to 120 programs, which are both about languages, preparation programmes for work in the European Union, or on European Union funds, are being prepared by officials for various things, their skills, skills and competences are increasing, and that is why the system is in charge of horizontal education programmes such as those education programmes common to all civil servants regardless of what body they work in. There are also a number of education activities carried out by each body of the state administration, which are those specialised in individual administrative portfolios, which are specialised education programmes in which only those civil servants from that body participate. For example, diplomatic academy, police academy, judicial academy, etc. and there is a large number of education activities organised in the context of these before the European Union accession process, various adaptation programmes for the Croatian system to the European Union. What I'd like to say further is that it's just a representation of the process. Therefore, the process was started by adopting this Law on State officials where all of these are being introduced, so depolitisation is being implemented, a system of education is being introduced into a state service which is mandatory and free of charge, even the Academy of Local Democracy was established in 2006, where the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so this centre is established and implemented education programmes for civil servants, the Academy of Local Democracy has singled out a million kunas, singles out each year for the implementation of the education programme for officials in local self-government and elected officials as well. Furthermore, what it is, why it all takes a long time. What we need to understand when it comes to the state administration, or the public administration, is that right now we are working on changing administrative culture. So what you mentioned yourself in your presentations, which is that it's about changing the approach that is actually management, that it's not the exercise of power anymore, it's the service, i.e. the administration in the service of citizens. There are various activities. One of the things that are being implemented under the State Administration Reform Strategy and this modernisation through the application of modern information and communication means, inter alia, through the General Administrative Procedure Act, which came into force this year, where the possibility of parties communicating through electronic means is legally introduced. It is also an office business regulation which is also the same mechanism that enables it. In the strategy of reforming the state administration only and the Government of Croatia's Action Plan for the implementation of the Human Resources Development Strategy for the period 2010/2013. It is mentioned and it is one of the measures that will be implemented, making a study of justification and establishing a school for public administration where this part of the national education programme, so this center of the Academy of Local Democracy, and we will see what else would be justified if there was one school for public administration, and then the regional school for public administration would be actually an upgrade to that school. So where we can't in different sectors, we can't have a large number of experts in the management sectors. An education would be too expensive, so only for one or two or three experts. Therefore, the idea is that there is a regional public administration school within the framework of these one, two or three experts for a particular administrative area, together with those experts from those countries, will then form a group where they will receive appropriate education, where they will be able to organise and develop such a programme. Whether 150 thousand euros is a lot or a little, it's hard to say, depending on which side you're looking at. If the importance of education is recognised by the European Union, they strengthen our administrative capacities, so 2 million euros is invested every year for education activities, and under pre-accession funds, further regional programmes will continue to be financed beyond the European Union by the activities of the Regional School for Public Administration, and these 150 thousand euros are in fact the financing of only the secretariats of each Member State. So that's the part that's necessary to employ 12 to 14 people as long as they're supposed to be able to organize those trainings. And just to add, it is, it is not cheap that it is true, Montenegro has invested 5m euros to build this centre in Danilovgrad and to build a hotel that is next to the centre for accommodation of training students. So it's the first international organisation in Montenegro and they've been very interested in getting it, they've invested a lot in it. Education is not cheap, it is difficult to talk about it, but definitely what is certain is that by working together in all segments of the public administration we create and encourage this change of administrative culture and we believe that it will eventually increase the satisfaction of citizens with public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55890	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30 with a proposal to show confidence to Drazen Bošnjaković for acting as Minister of Justice, and afterwards the Annual Financial Report of HABOR 2009, the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2009 and the Annual Report on the work of the Croatian Post Agency, electronic telecommunications for 2009, Report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-06-0.u55891	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty establishing the Regular School for Public Administration (RESPA), the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 554. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty establishing the Regular School for Public Administration (RESPA). Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final proposal of the Treaty Confirmation Act was adopted by a majority of 98 votes in favour, one abstention and one against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you as well as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Vice-President, Minister. We move to the item of the agenda announced, which is - A proposal to show confidence to Drazen Bošnjakovic for acting as Minister of Justice Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government submitted this proposal on the basis of Article 109. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 6 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. I'd like the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, to make an opening statement on the proposal. Here you go.
