ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58165	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System held at the 59th and 60th meetings held on 6 and 14th September of this year held a debate on the opening of a referendum on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law amending the Act on Labour with the final draft of the Law to be submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organisational Committee for the Declaration of the Voter on the need to request the call for a referendum. The Committee carried out the debate on the basis of its competence referred to in Article 57(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is prescribed to prepare proposals for appropriate acts in the procedure of calling the referendum, if required by 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. In the context of the competence given, the task of the Committee was to determine whether the assumptions for the opening of the referendums provided for in Article 87(1) to (3) were met. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The introduction of the Committee president reminded the committee members that the Organisational Committee on Voter Statement on the need to request a referendum on the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 14 July 2010. In the very request, the Organisational Committee argues that 813 000 and 16 voters whose signatures were submitted at the request were required to request a referendum. In addition, a decision on voter accession on the need to request a referendum containing a referendum issue relating to Article 4 has also been submitted with the request. The draft law amending the Labour Act, with the final draft law, which the Government sent to the Croatian Parliament on 28 May 2010 and reads: "Are you in favour of retaining the applicable legal provisions on extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and cancelling collective agreements?" The President of the Croatian Parliament shall be based on Article 57. The Rules of Procedure referred the request to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, which reached a unanimous conclusion on the basis of Article 115 at the 58th session of the 15th of July of this year. The Rules of Procedure have been commissioned by the Ministry of the Administration and the Ministry of the Interior to verify the number and credibility of the voter's signature from the application for a referendum on the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, with the final proposal of the law and to have the report on the verification of delivery carried out to the Croatian Assembly. On 3 September of this year, the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of the Interior submitted a report to the Committee on the basis of which it was intended to determine whether the conditions for the opening of the referendum referred to in Article 87(3) were met. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. whether 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia are asking for a referendum. In the discussion on the basis of the data and the report of the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Interior on the verification of voters who participated in a plea for the opening of a referendum on the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act with the final draft law, the Committee found: 1. The Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Interior found that there were 809 thousand 370 people in the notebooks after the data was completed. The difference of 6 thousand 448 refers to non-existent regular numbers within volumes, i.e. misnumbered signatures when collecting them. 2. Of the total number of data entered for 92 thousand 229 persons, it has been found that they do not have voter status on the basis of the following criteria: wrongly entered home number of citizens 60967, persons deprived of business capacity 224, 810 persons under the age of 18 at the time of signature, one person who was not a Croatian citizen, 56 persons who died before the start of the deadline specified for signing, 5061 persons due to differences in their personal name, for 235 persons no signatures with registered personal data, for 9482 innocuous name or last name and for 95 invalid OIB and finally 425 persons whose personal name on the signed list does not correspond to the personal name to which the number of citizens relates. To 14702 where multiple voters are also registered to 171 foreigners. Of the 717140 persons for whom the registered voter status of 356350 was not declared at the nearest census, it has already been established that their data are contained in the lists of signed places in which the stay of those persons at the time of signature has been questioned. Fourth. The report also lists other irregularities in the voter declaration procedure prescribed by the Law on Referendum and other forms of participation in the conduct of state affairs, local and regional (regional) self-government and the signed sheets were not bound by or marked by regular numbers on which Article 8d was injured. paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The law. The voters did not write their own name and last name and home number, but their personal data were printed by other persons who injured Article 8e. paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The law. The voters did not declare themselves exclusively at the place where the declaration was held but in other places, legal persons and bodies of state and local administrations, or signatures were collected in other unauthorized and undeclared places which injured Article 8e. paragraph 3. The law. Based on the analysis of the report, the Committee found that 717149 voters in the Republic of Croatia requested a referendum on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour with the Final Bill, which is 15.95% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia. The Committee also established that the circumstance that 356358 had not been declared at the nearest listing sites had already been established that their data were contained in the signed notes in which the stay of those persons at the time of signature had not been questioned had no meaning to question the signatures which were established as valid. Following the debate, the Committee proposed, unanimously with 12 votes for, the Croatian Parliament, the following conclusion: The Election Statement Committee on the need to request the signing of a referendum has submitted a request to the Croatian Parliament for the opening of a referendum on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour with the Final Proposal for a Law for which the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of the Interior has established that it is supported by at least 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 87(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee President informed the members that the Government of the Republic of Croatia withdrew on 3 September 2010 from the procedure of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour with the Final Bill on which voters assessed the need to call a referendum as stated in the request of the Organisational Committee. It reminded the members of the Committee that Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union was amended as follows: The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia prescribed that the Croatian Parliament could issue a referendum on a proposal to amend the Constitution, on a bill or on another issue from its own part. As regards the referendum issue, Article 4 The proposal for a law amending the Labour Act with the Final Proposal for a Law sent by the Government to the Croatian Parliament since 28 May 2010 following the withdrawal of the draft law from the procedure has raised the question whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) have been fulfilled. It's the constitution to call a referendum. In this regard, the Chair of the Committee has proposed the application of Article 95. Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which has been prescribed that at the request of the Croatian Parliament, the Constitutional Court will, in the event that 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia request a referendum, determine whether the contents of the referendum issue are in accordance with the Constitution and whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been fulfilled. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for its calling. A number of different opinions and constitutional and legal interpretations of the provision of Article 87(1) have been held in the debate. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is thus pointed out that the withdrawal of the draft law from the procedure has disappeared an essential formal-legal condition for calling the referendum, as the referendum issue cannot be interpreted abstractly but must be related to a concrete act as it is seen from the very request for a referendum. The opinion is also expressed that voters' signatures would not have been collected if the Government of the Republic of Croatia had not proposed to the Croatian Assembly of the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act with the Final Bill on 28 May 2010. The majority of the members of the committee expressed their opinion on the non-questionability of the provision of Article 87(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and that under the constitutional situation referred to in the second paragraph, a second question can also be brought to the attention of a hypothetical question which does not have to be related to a concrete act, which must be called by the Croatian Parliament if 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia so request. As regards the said, it is necessary to apply Article 95. The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia proposed a conclusion that was rejected by the majority of votes of 6 votes by, members of the committee of gentlemen and ladies representatives Josip Leko, Zoran Milanović, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Vesna Pusic, Boris Šprem and Tonino Picula. And seven votes against board members Vladimir Seks, Emil Tomljanovic, Ana Lovrin, Josip Salapic, Damir Sesvečan, Ivo Grbić and Šemso Tankovic, which is the conclusion, the proposal for a conclusion that has been rejected, the Croatian Parliament will discuss a referendum on the protection of workers' rights, voters will declare on the next referendum issue whether you are in favour of maintaining the applicable legal provisions on extended application of the legal rules in collective agreements and cancelling collective agreements. Following the debate, the committee proposed a majority vote for the members of the Committee, Vladimir Seks, Emil Tomljanović, Ana Lovrin, Josip Salapić, Damir Sesvečan, Ivo Grbić, Šemso Tanković and 6 votes against the members of the Committee Josip Leko, Zoran Milanović, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Vesna Pusić, Boris Šprem and Tonino Picula, the following conclusion: The Croatian Parliament will, in accordance with Article 95 of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, ask the Constitutional Court of Croatia to determine whether the assumptions set out in Articles 87 to 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for its opening with a referendum question whether, in order to maintain the applicable legal provisions on the extended application of the rules contained in collective agreements and the cancellation of collective agreements, the Government of the Republic of Croatia withdrew from the procedure of the draft Act amending the Law on Labour with the final draft law on 3 September 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58166	Thank you. Does the government's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58167	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. We have a case before us that the Croatian Parliament has never had before on its agenda. The state referendum in the history of the Republic of Croatia has been called only one time so far, in the case of the identification of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. voters of the decision to separate Croatia from its state legal relations with the other members of the Yugoslav Federation and practically acquire the conditions for formal declaration of independence. So, the Institute of the State Referendum has not been used so far for the issues that have been made possible in all the constitutions that the Republic of Croatia has brought, that is to say, from its first multi-party assembly to today and from the famous Christmas Constitution, so that there is indeed a reason to talk about such things, that in the discussion not only from a constitutional point of view, but above all politically, because this is about the political will of citizens, lighting and this case so that no doubt of this kind arises in the future. What concerns us significantly in the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement is the government's behaviour in this situation. It seems to us, or we believe, that the government's position was not serious and was not responsible and was not at the height of this situation. The fact is that the drivers of the call of the state referendum have done a huge job, the fact is that they have stated to the Croatian Parliament that they have collected more than 8 hundred thousand signatures, the fact is that the vast majority of these signatures could not be challenged, the fact is that this issue that was the subject of the biggest public poll, practically on this issue ever carried out, was clearly unequivocally and pointed to the government's concrete intention to propose very important amendments to the Labour Act to this Croatian Assembly. The fact is also that a large part of the citizens must have seen it as an opportunity to give their statement on the government's policy in general on the draft legislative regulation in the Republic of Croatia and on the legal position and real position of employment in our country. It is clear, then, that this referendum had not only a technical character, or a preparation for it, but also a very important political dimension. So many wonders that the government has raised this issue technically, not realizing how important and burdensome this issue is, and what has actually shown its inconsistency. It's about what it's about. After receiving a request from the Organizational Committee for the Preparation of the Referendum, the Croatian Parliament sent a referendum to the Croatian Government because it does not own it, therefore it does not have such mechanisms, all of what it has received to establish whether the whole procedure is done by law or whether the citizens' signatures are valid. The sectors in the government, primarily the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of the Interior, showed unprecedented agility, in the period from 14 July when all the signatures and this official initiative of the Organizational Committee were received, until 3 September when the government, the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of the Interior were screened for more than 8 hundred signatures in an extremely short time, and should be congratulated. They have shown that they possess mechanisms that can do a huge job in a short time, but provided the government wants it to. So the government had a firm view that it should check literally every signature at the request of a referendum, but whenever not only here in this House, but in the Croatian public, it raises the question of the validity of the current census, 1001 reasons are found not to do so. According to the logic of the matter if 809 thousand signatures, slightly more than that, have been checked in less than 2 months then it is quite clear and easy to calculate how much the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Interior should verify the validity of the existing list of voters. If only there was a political will. It does not exist, of course, and therefore the story remains unfinished, remains open and, of course, the space from which the motives for manipulation are drawn, but also the motives for political recommendations. This is not necessary for Croatia. And the question arises whether and how long will we endure this situation which directly raises the question of the legitimacy of elections at all levels in the Republic of Croatia, including elections for the Croatian Parliament. It should also be said that the government has not only kept on to establish that 92 229 persons listed in the lists are in fact that it is about persons who do not have voter status but has gone further speculating not only that 356 358 signatures are not given in the nearest place, place of residence, or where the signatures that are closest to the place of residence have been collected have been signed, so that the public has been further irritated because there is absolutely no obligation for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be listed in the list of voters who join the initiative to launch the state referendum to sign, or to sign at the nearest place. That principle, if introduced, would be discriminatory. Furthermore, that was not enough, but was clearly and loudly placed at the cabinet's meeting under the questionnaire's complete signature file. Thus, the so-called so-called thing is that it asked whether the signed lists were bound in a regulated manner. No one's ever prescribed a way anywhere, and it would be funny if it were. 809 thousand signatures to import into books is something that would be a technical requirement unworthy of the very idea of launching a state referendum. It is good that the Government is zealous so that from all angles, all 809 thousand signatures have been searched, checked and determined, but what concerns is the political autism of the Government which refused to declare whether it supports the idea of the promoter or not, but by transferring responsibility to the Croatian Parliament which is not at all questionable originally. Because the Croatian Parliament is making a decision on this, but it must have the government's position in the process. Our government has formally made no decision on its position, but has sent a political message that it considers all these signatures actually invalid. It's political autism. Facing the entire Croatian public within 24 hours is their problem. If they are not aware that such a bad act is further irritated not only by those 809 thousand people who have signed this request but also by all those who do not, who feel that the government is not doing well, it is something that the government itself must be concerned about. I hope there's this level of critical approach, that the government is aware of it. The debate on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system is also a kind of political autism. Namely, the fact is that the former article is 86 and the current article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia literally states in its first sentence: "The Croatian Parliament can call a referendum on a proposal for a change to the Constitution, on a bill or on a second issue from its section." The third item is explicit. He can't talk, and he's not a college attitude. He says, "The questions referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article will be called by the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the law if 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia so requests." So there is no doubt that if there is an initiative supported by at least 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament will make a decision. The question was born in view of Article 95. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court. And what does article 95 say? It is an article in the 9th chapter of the law called Oversight over the constitutionality and legality of elections and the state referendum and electoral disputes. He says in his paragraph 1. - at the request of the Croatian Parliament, so on the express request of the Croatian Parliament, without the Croatian Parliament and its request, the Constitutional Court will, in the event that 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic requests a referendum to be called, determine whether the contents of the referendum issue are in accordance with the Constitution and whether the assumptions set out in Article 86 are met today, paragraphs 1 to 3. The Republic of Croatia's constitution for its calling. It is quite clear if the Croatian Parliament is not completely clear whether the referendum issue proposed in accordance with the law, and it is obvious that our parent committee is not able to be with this Nazis but has divided politically, and this already means that it is not constitutionally and exclusively a political issue, only then does the Constitutional Court really involve itself in this story. The intensity is very clear. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, thanks to most of its votes, is actually trying to buy time for most of its members. I hereby warn that we further irritate 809 thousand signatories of this initiative, further irritate the Croatian public. This is not a responsible approach, and it is a testimony that someone wants the Croatian Parliament to take over its part of constitutional responsibility in this matter and none other than the political majority in this assembly. In this regard, we cannot support the proposal for a conclusion as a Club of the People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement and we will vote against the proposal for a conclusion, believing that the Croatian Parliament is responsible enough, absolutely competent to act under the constitution and in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58168	Thank you. Before Minister Mlakar gets his word, Mrs. Ana Lovrin has a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting Councilman Beus, he said the government had a firm attitude to check signatures, that the government was dealing with technicals, etc. Incorrectly, this is not the Government's volunteer position that is the provision of the Law on Referendum adopted by this Croatian Parliament and the Government's job is to verify and implement the Law, and the Law on Referendum in Article 8d(2) says "every place referred to in paragraph 1 of this article must have a list of binding lists which will contain a clearly formulated issue on which a referendum and clearly divided horizontal lines are requested". So we can, but I don't think we're in the stage to say as Comrade Tito that we shouldn't stick to the law as a drunk float.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58170	Thank you. Here, the promoter, on behalf of the promoter, called again before the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58171	Mr. President, just one observation of Mr. Goran Beus Richemberg's esteemed colleague, who said that if I understood correctly that the Constitutional Committee did not respect the will or signatures of 808, or 80,000 voters. You should consider that the same Committee on the Constitution has unanimously identified and disqualified 92 thousand 225 persons, we cannot say that the Committee on the Constitution does not reflect the will of those voters who died before the referendum was signed. So it's ignored... how it happened and why it happened that the persons who were enrolled were dead before the start of the enrollment, the voter's statement. How come 65 dead people are listed, who did it? Why would he do that? How a person could have been signed, instead of one forgeries, the name and last name of a dead person were entered, not one but 56. How could it happen to sign and sign 56 or 224 people who are deprived of their business abilities or 810 people under 18? Or how it could have happened that 14 thousand 702 people were multiple-listed voters. So one voter signed multiple times. Why was that tolerated? That is why it cannot be said here that the Committee on the Constitution did not respect and respect, that it should have respected these 92 thousand. He shouldn't have. He shouldn't have. And the board unanimously adopted it. And that consideration that the Law provides for a referendum does not draw conclusions because voters were listed in signed places outside their place of residence, that the law does not impose sanctions on them. The law says that places where voters will be told about the need to request a referendum to be called for to be signed at those places that will be approved by the representative bodies of the unit of local administration and self-government and that those places will be notified by the organisational committee 5 days before the declaration is signed. And in a large part of the cases, the organisational board and its parts were notified in good time according to the law, and the police administrations in which they were located, in certain places where voters also pleaded. However, there have been numerous cases, we have it specified in reports where voters have pleaded in places that have not been approved, or reported to be signed on them. And the Committee has taken the view that despite all these shortcomings in the referendum law, we are not proposing, or in fact we suggest that the signatures of these voters be accepted as correct and not disqualified for certain shortcomings related to strict compliance with the referendum law. Therefore, the legal provision that voters were to plead in places that were registered and approved in the police administration draws a conclusion, because they were not declared there, but in some other places that there had been a violation of the Law. But we didn't suggest that these voters disqualify themselves. Because if several hundred voters are resident in Split or Brač declares themselves and gives their signatures at signed polls at a primary school in Zabok, this is indicated in this report, only indicated in this report, it is only indicated that it is questionable whether they were at the time of their statement in their place of residence. The law does not stipulate that such voter signatures are disqualified and annulled. But it was only indicated that it was questionable whether they pleaded when it was indicated on that list that it was in polling stations where they had their place of residence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58172	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58173	Thank you, Mr. President. One explanation, so I'm correcting a statement that's been troubled by the fact that someone signed a referendum outside of their place of residence. That's not weird at all. According to the census, 130 thousand inhabitants of Zagreb County are daily immigrants to the city of Zagreb, 130 thousand, a third of the population. Thus, the fact that no one has signed outside of their home is odd because people travel, and in 15 days it can come to different places, should not be troubled.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58174	It has now been explained here how this came about and that it has been warned, without being questioned. That's what matters. Minister of Management Mr Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have no intention of constantly reacting but allow after the report of Mr. Beus's club and speech I am obliged to say something because I think that when you've already taken this matter to comment on the fact that you hold a referendum and the position of the government on behalf of the Government, let me answer only a few of your findings. You said that the government I'm not going to quote literally I don't think it matters, it's important to guess the point has been put technically on this whole issue of holding a referendum, and the question of any broader importance. That the government's responsibility for determining labour relations and employment policy has been raised. If that were true, that should also be the referendum question. Let me remind you of the referendum question, are you in favour of retaining the applicable legal provisions on extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and cancelling collective agreements? No other questions, and understanding the insinuation that was meant to be, I think they're inappropriate for this debate. Secondly, if you had already quoted the legal provisions, I would have returned to why the Government in its technical report provided the information it provided, so I would quote the provisions that are relevant in the referendum law and other forms of the second statement, which were otherwise adopted in 2001 and regulated the procedure preceding the referendum. "Every place referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article" means a place where voters declare the need to hold a referendum, "must have a list of binding lists containing a clearly formulated issue on which a referendum is called for and clearly divided horizontal lines marked by regular numbers". The undertaking is not bound by the sheets and the need to collect these lists in the related books is not due to the beauty of the procedure itself, but because of the fact that after the deadline, and the time limit for the collection of the signatures is 15 days, they cannot insert the sheets and thus question a statement in the places set for the declaration. It is therefore prescribed that these lists must be bound and proposed by none of the lists we received in 229 scripts or books was bound in a prescribed manner. It's usually known at the state administration how books and collections are properly imported and how it should look. Therefore, we pointed to the fact that it was possible, even after the expiry of the deadlines in books and lists that were collected in certain places, to additionally place lists that were not collected there. The second provision you did not quote is Article 8th of the same law, and it says, "The voter can declare the need to apply for a referendum only at one of the places where the statement will be held." And that's why we've shown that over 14,000 signatures have been found in multiple places. It was not possible to guarantee the correct procedure if the person mentioned in one collection was later found in several other collections given for the final assessment. Therefore, it is true that your finding is correct that there is no required obligation in the law that voters must declare themselves in a place where they are otherwise registered as voters, but therefore we have indicated that more than 350 thousand people have been declared in places that are very far from their place of residence. These are not daily emigrants, because persons from the Island, Sibenik, Brac are very often not in Zlatar Bistrica or Zlatar, and such people were on lists that were finally presented in a request for a referendum. Therefore, to conclude with this part, the Government is in charge of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System to check the data collection process, i.e. specifically the Ministry of Administration, to verify that the persons on the voters' lists and whether they have the right to vote what the Ministry of Administration has done and ultimately 717 thousand 149 persons are the number that the Ministry of Administration has provided in its report confirming that those persons with the status of voters in the Republic of Croatia. The government had neither the authority nor the authority to decide whether or not a referendum should be held. It is a decision made by the Croatian Parliament, which is prescribed by the law you quoted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58176	Thank you. We have corrections, first Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58177	It is not true that it is not the job of the state authorities, especially the highest, to assert on a single act that it was not possible to guarantee the correctness of the signature. The state authorities are serving to say whether something is legal or not, and not that they are merely expressing suspicion and essentially expressing a political stance, is it not a job, it is not exactly the ministry's job, and it is not the job that the Parliament has given to do in this operational sense the Ministry of Administration. That's one thing. And secondly, it's incorrect that the question of signatures, the question of government registration of names and all other things, as well as of this connection, which is true in this sense, is that this law has prescribed that abuses be prevented, but then those abuses should have been determined, and not put and cast doubt on citizens that they are forgers, that they are frauds because they are simply neither true nor proper of the state body. ... Thirdly, it is incorrect and it is a falsification of the law, find me a provision in the law that says that a citizen from Dubrovnik cannot be signed in Zagreb. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And one more thing, in our legal system, only a government will must be signed under the consequences of nothingness in the sense that it must be written.../The speaker has been excluded./... writing down a non-essential injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58179	Our legal system distinguishes important and irrelevant injuries. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58180	Thank you. Some people who are drunk are law-abiding. They should be criticized. Mrs. Tanya Wrbat, please. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to correct the quote... A little peace in the hall. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Mr. President, may I? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58182	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58183	Thank you. I want to correct the incorrect allegations of Mr. Minister Mlakar, who claims that it is not about daily migrants, people who, for example, from Brac signed or found themselves in the registration lists, for example, in Zabok. Maybe it happened that a group of some kind of pensioners were on a field trip, you can't say that for sure. And besides, it is unacceptable for me to question here the basic principle of freedom of movement of the Republic of Croatia which is one of the basic constitutional principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58184	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate on the important matter, and whether 15 or 17 were misrepresented. About important things, it's important things, and this is another way to show how we follow the law. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58185	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vlad's representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. The first thing I want to do is draw the attention of my fellow MPs is we decide two things today. We are deciding as representatives on the request of citizens of the voters of the Republic of Croatia and that the legitimate demands of 717 thousand or cca 16% of the total electoral body to call a referendum on the issue of Parliament's competence and to decide on this issue by citizens as the top democratic body in this democratic country. This is the first requirement completely separate from the ruling. This is the second requirement for parliamentarians, it is the conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that proposes to the Parliament to ignore 16%, 16% of legitimate and legal demands that citizens have the right to decide on, and now the obligation. So, in front of us, the dilemma is put on the side of the citizens, on the side of the voters as the top democratic body in this country. Now the arguments for our position are both political and legal in our favor. I'll try to explain them. Before that, it should be said that the move and the statements of the rulings can identify what their position was from the beginning. So, in social dialogue, the government failed to agree on what it wanted. She refused union proposals and unilaterally decided to send the Labour Act, its amendments and additions to the Assembly. The union then uses the constitutional position and asks, asks the citizens if you are for it and now the issue is here before us: are you in favour of retaining the applicable legal provisions under the extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and cancelling collective agreements. So, trade unions demand that citizens be made aware of the position of workers, the legal position of workers in the relationship between employers and workers. That's the essence of the dispute. In this way, trade unions are given highly engaged support to citizens, so it goes to places where 800 and more thousands of citizens of the Republic of Croatia are signed, and 717 thousand of them are authorised by the Constitution Committee as legal requirements for voter decision-makers in the referendum. So legally, legitimate citizens have acquired the right through the Committee to decide on the issue, through the Committee on the Constitution. It therefore confirmed that the requirements set out in Article 97 were met. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia referred to in paragraph 3, third question or third option, other issues and 10% signatures of the voters of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this is the right and obligation established through the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and, unanimously, there was no dispute. All members of the board voted, 717 thousand signatures of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, members of the supreme democratic body decided. There wasn't a slow one. However, in the process of collecting signatures from citizens, the government had its position through statements by ministers that citizens do not know what they are signing. Such an attitude cannot be expressed without very strong political but also legal arguments. But this shows the government's attitude towards citizens and the issues it should have arranged in social dialogue. When it didn't go away because it simply couldn't accept the fact that the government or its ministers were talking about, then the well-intentioned Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system with the trust to be respected was sent to check the government and our services and the citizens' signatures. And instead of reacting as only the working body of the Parliament, the government's committee has found it appropriate to question the will of citizens who have said by their own signature that they want what they want. It is therefore about showing will, and all legal and procedural tricks do not help because the electoral body in democratic structures, in democratic states, is the supreme and most important democratic body, and I could now quote item 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in the Republic of Croatia, the government comes from the people and belongs to the people as a community of free and equal citizens. The people exercise power by choosing their representatives and by direct decision, i.e. a referendum. If we add this really well-intentioned or I would say logical interpretation of Article 97. The Constitution of paragraph 1 and paragraph 3 follows that the Committee on the Constitution has established that all the conditions for the opening of the referendum have been met. 717000 citizens have legitimately decided, legitimately engaged and responsibly. First condition. The second condition is a referendum issue which is also legitimate because the problem has not been solved. This relationship between the employer and the worker has not been resolved. If we add that after that, even if I were to say so to a small procedural game, the Committee avoided voting when it discussed the matter rather than delayed it so as to say that it was called these talks with possible other political and democratic factors or had not simply had a majority at that time. It was to say the evaded responsibility only for a moment. At the next session, the Committee decides to ask the Constitutional Court, in spite of the clear and unequivocal facts. And imagine what the question is? The issue is to the Constitutional Court to determine whether the assumptions have been met, and the Committee itself has found that 717000 are valid, legitimate, legal signatures of citizens and that the question is fine, justified. What should the Constitutional Court decide in that case? About usefulness? The utilitarianity of that question, for whose benefit, to whom? It's not in the constitutional court's section. These are political issues that the Parliament must decide on and take responsibility for itself. Why do I say that? Let's quote an article on the deliriousness and jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court? I don't know. We're gonna find him now, so we're gonna see that there's no word 123. Article 129, 129, now. So, what does the Constitutional Court decide? On the consent of the law with the Constitution, on the consent of other regulations with the Constitution, other words on constitutionality and legality. It decides on constitutional lawsuits when it comes to individual acts, decides on the achievement of constitutionality and legality, and reports by the Parliament on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and is not mentioned anywhere in the Constitution, in the Constitution that the Constitutional Court can decide on the usefulness of a question, the fulfillment of a decision on a matter. Well, for God's sake, this is what the Parliament really decides. We cannot transfer responsibility to the Constitutional Court to determine whether we need a referendum. It is Parliament's task, and the Parliament ladies and gentlemen cannot ignore the will of citizens not because of the first and the article of the first Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but the power, political power and legal power of 717000 must not be neglected, it must not be neglected. Long ago, one of the great thinkers perhaps 350 years ago said that democracy without power is powerless, but power without democracy is also tyranny. If we are to ignore 717000 signatures of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, voters, those who chose us here, then it is questionable where democratic power lies. Is she with the citizens, with the ruling, at the Constitutional Court you must decide upon these demands. That's why I think the position of the Social Democratic Party's Club of Representatives is that citizens are based on political reasons and constitutional reasons. Consider that once the citizens have lost their trust when they decide that they want to decide on matters of Parliament's jurisdiction and transfer to the jurisdiction of the citizens, means more than one ignoring, means more than one ignoring, means that the citizens and their power do not respect, we will not be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58186	Thank you. Before Mr. Secretary, we have a few corrections. The first is Mr. Joseph Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct Mr. Lek's incorrect claim when he said the Constitutional Committee ignored the will of the citizens who signed this request for a referendum. Mr Leko's Committee on the Constitution has referred to the Constitutional Court a request for interpretation of whether there are formal grounds for calling a referendum in the context of the referendum not to refer to something which is inconclusive and abstract, but rather something which is a concrete act. Since the Government has withdrawn the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, we believe that there are no formal legal reasons, and what you think about the rights of citizens and workers you showed in 2003 when you cut on salaries, pensions, and births, and today you want a poll on your party's popularity to trigger early elections across the back of workers. That's the one you're gonna... to watch in another episode. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58188	I do not need to be warned, since I know and read the Rules of Procedure. This, the final part of the debate was out of this correction of the incorrect allegation, the first part was the correction of the incorrect allegation. So let's move on. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58189	Your Honor. My colleague, Leko, incorrectly stated that it was the government's view that citizens do not know what they're signing. It's a lie. The government's position was that the political parties that had unions collecting signatures, and they had a different motive for collecting signatures than the unions had, the unions had one social motive for collecting the signature, and the political parties had their own to deceive citizens, to confuse, to intimidate, to intimidate their referendum theory. That's what the government said and that's the fact and that's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58190	Correction, Mrs. Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's the incorrect quote from Mr. Lek, who says the government has questioned the will of the citizens. That's incorrect, Mr. Leco. It is precisely because point 3 concludes that out of 717 thousand 149 persons for 356 thousand and 350 persons are asked to stay at the time of signing, which is almost half of 717 thousand and 149 persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58192	Thank you. Mrs. Sunny Head, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will correct the inaccuracy of my colleague Lek, who said that the ruling move could tell what he was like from the beginning. So I would just remind myself that the government's position was, and hence HDZ's, to secure in the budget rebalancing the 170 million kuna needed to hold the referendum, and that I would like to see a little less of it in the crystal ball, and that we're dealing with facts, which is the fact. And another fact is that the SDP shows its unbelief to protect workers, and in fact it voted against the budget rebalancing in which it was secured I remind 170 million kunas to carry out the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58194	Mrs. Anna Lovrin, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So MP Leko said the government has questioned 800,000 signatures of Croatian citizens and questioned the will of voters, etc. No, that's not true. The government did what the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution asked it to do, which is to check the correctness of the signature. And let's not play for political reasons with the implementation of the Constitution, 10% is a constitutional censorship, and unless the Constitution is respected that as a condition basic to the discussion of a binding referendum check that this condition is met, then I really don't know where we are. And I stress that it is a binding referendum, with a special force, whose decision is mandatory and that has profuturated ad infinitum to a new referendum on the issue, which many have disrupted from their minds.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58196	Thank you very much. And Mr. Damir Sesvečan, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58197	I will also correct the incorrect allegation that has already been corrected, on two occasions, as counterpart Leko said on behalf of the SDP club that the government has doubted the citizens' will. So I'll say that's not true, because the government found exactly what the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure and the political system asked it to do, it found what the law had set and ordered. I hope that my colleague, Leko, or the SDP club whose name and colleague spoke, does not think that the government should have silenced or suppressed the observed illegalities and irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58198	Mr. Secretary Davorin Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58199	Thank you, Mr. President. I am obliged on behalf of the Government and these two ministries that have received the responsibility, which they have done we believe in a quality way and say in a relatively short time. The government did not use any legal jokes, but in its report it showed the committee that 717 thousand signatures on the lists are signed by voters in the Republic of Croatia who have the right to determine the matter of the referendum. She also said she doesn't have any doubts, and you won't find it in any government document. The voter's signatures and legality have raised doubts about the process of collecting signatures conducted by the Organising Committee to prepare the referendum. The procedure was not carried out in accordance with the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal declaration, and this is the case in our report, and the fact that citizens in the procedure that has damaged their will have been established in a legal manner, we have never doubted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58200	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First, he's a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58201	I must correct Mr. Secretary's claim that the signing process has not been carried out in accordance with the law. The conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure made it clear that the procedure was carried out in accordance with the law with 717 thousand signatures of citizens with the right to vote and today reiterate doubts about the legality of the procedure in Parliament when we are discussing it irresponsiblely from you, Mr Minister, you could discuss this within the Government, but after the conclusion of the Committee no longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58202	Thank you. And the second correction to the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, Mr. Minister and others who were correcting my assessment that the government had doubts about the citizens did not state that argument that I made. So that's manipulation again. I have stated that the government has made statements by its ministers that citizens do not know what they suspect in the knowledge and ability of citizens to decide. And which ministers said that they know citizens, but I know it too. I listened to my own eyes that the Minister of Economy said so.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58204	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative and vice president of House Vladimir Seks is on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Why did the government go to check, i.e. the ministries, have been given the mandate of the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of the Interior to check on the basis of the conclusion of the Constitutional Committee, to verify the number and credibility of the voter's signature from the request for a referendum. The Committee on the Constitution has reached such a conclusion within the framework of its work and has unanimously reached such a conclusion and has asked these two ministries to verify the number and credibility of voter signatures and requests for a referendum. If there were very reasonable reasons for the committee to request verification of voters' credibility, the voter's signature, the strongest argument for such a conclusion is that the verification found that 92,229 persons do not have voter status. Therefore, it was necessary to carry out a verification to determine whether the voter's signature in the request for a referendum was credible. Because they were registered on behalf of the dead 56 persons that they were registered, that they had given their signature for a plea to call a referendum on whether they were for the application of these applicable legal rules, that they were signed before the deadline before the signing of the referendum, which means that someone abused the heavy abuse that those dead persons had signed. This is not the responsibility of the Organising Committee for the Opening of the Referendum, for this is the responsibility of a number of those who went to enlisting lists in different places with their hands and hats. The Organisational Committee has given both the order and the instructions for this declaration to be carried out in accordance with the law. But some of those individuals who went to different places with those lists, went from schools, hospitals, various other places that were not determined and which were not registered by the organisational board and were not registered to the police administration, these individuals were self-performing in a burning desire to collect and build up as many signatures as possible, but with the intention, they were not signatures to declare the current legal rules on the Labour Act but to that hidden referendum that, as Mr Goran Beus Richemberg said, it was actually a statement on the referendum on the government. It was, that way, that way, that a number of citizens were drugged to get under the cover of the referendum to seek a statement on the Labour Act, it was simply going to be a statement on the current government, that is, against the government. Why did that check need to be carried out? The verification should not only be carried out for the reasons why the Constitutional Committee requested it and that all members of the Constitutional Committee of the Croatian Parliament accepted it but also because it proved precisely that at least 92 000 were to be disqualified. And the government did not in its reports, i.e. these two ministries, administrations and home affairs, raise a hidden suspicion or open suspicion when it cited in its reports all the numerous irregularities which, where the provisions of the referendum law were violated in the very signing and declaration of voters. The government did not thus signal or suggest that the Croatian Parliament cancel the will of the electoral body, cancel all those signatures where certain formal violations of the Law on Referendum were carried out. The government, i.e. these two ministries, administrations and home affairs, only pointed out where the injuries were committed and they were the Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs only and only executed the order of the Croatian Parliament, or the Committee on the Constitution of the Croatian Parliament to determine the credibility of the voter's signature. And not that it provided a message on the basis of these reports and requested in fact silence and suggested that the Croatian Parliament or that the Committee on the Constitution disqualify the signatures and these 356 358 which were declared in other signed places. Therefore, this was not an express intention to disqualify because certain infringements of the Law on Referendum were pointed out. And now you see how important it was that the Committee on the Constitution asked for this verification, not only for the reasons where it was established that these 92 thousand extremely irresponsible people who had used the trust and the organisational committee, the president of the central banks, their trust, the trust of the Croatian Parliament, the trust of all citizens who had declared themselves about the whole referendum, but who went to this extent indiscriminately to enroll dead persons, minors, foreigners, people who had multiple enrolment, so it was necessary to carry out that check, so the results and verification were to be clearly reported as required on the conclusion of the Croatian Committee, the Croatian Parliament, the results and the verifications of both ministries will submit the report to the Croatian Assembly, which both ministries did. They only pointed out in the structure of that statement, where certain injuries were committed. You see when you look analytically at all these materials from those two ministries, 93 thousand 573 voters are listed with the same handwriting for multiple voters. It is 17 thousand 75 different manuscripts, which were signed by 93,000 573 voters, which means that the number of voters recorded was that of the average one person enrolled 48 voters. The law says, personally by government, and here, on average, one person enrolled 5.48 voters. And we accepted those signatures, and we accepted that statement as a valid one. We accepted the right and something that, in 20 thousand 54 lists, something incredible was made. YES, in the referendum, this request for a referendum from the organisational committee is a form: "The request of the Croatian Parliament for a referendum with the following question: Are you in favour of maintaining the applicable legal provisions on the extended application of rules contained in collective agreements and cancelling collective agreements? And that's what the word "yes" and "no" says. And then a list of voters who support the referendum and then they're their signatures. As determined by this verification, 472,000, or 276 voters did not round up or not. They're forms. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Or more precisely you have cases that the correctness was erased by rounding 380, all the total correction was 1479 signatures rounding that the cross-replication that, correcting at 33 thousand that on the 16 list of corrections was called a referendum circled by not overwritten correction and 352 signatures where there was no there it was crossed by a correction. These abuses were done not by members of the organisational committee but by someone who went on the ground to call at all costs, to collect as many signatures as possible. We also accepted these signatures, and we want to show that it was just the aspect of the will of the electorate by the board rather than the acting of electoral will, because despite all these possible irregularities, we have suggested that these signatures be recognised, therefore, by the 15.95 will of the electoral bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58206	Thank you very much. I shall first inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired during Euro 10 and 53 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes we have 14 individual debates reported and we still have 3 clubs. We now have two corrections to incorrect allegations, the first being the distinguished representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58207	counterpart Seks, the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, incorrectly argues that the intention and will of the voters given by his signature aims at something other than supporting the referendum. So, every one that came out and signed, you're judging that by his signature, he expressed his political will and supported the referendum's call. So, by law, it's interpreted. If you think otherwise, you should prove it, but your debate is going after it, and it is also incorrect to relativize 717 thousand which is rightly the Committee which you led, assessed and found to be legal and legitimate. That's the point of the decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58208	Thank you very much. It's kind of a very tense correction to an incorrect quote, it almost broke. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative and vice president of the House, Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58209	My esteemed dear colleague was not at all correcting my incorrect claim, but correcting my consideration. I didn't say in any word that I said that the citizens didn't know what they were saying. I said that I specifically referred to a representative's statement on behalf of Mr. Beus Richembergh's Club, who said that his citizens went after the referendum, that it was a referendum against the government. That's what I illustrated in that way. Not that I don't know what the citizens signed. That's what I have my opinion of what the citizens have signed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58210	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58211	Not that I don't know what the citizens signed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58212	Thank you. We have another correction to the incorrect allegations, I believe an unsustained, esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58213	The Honorable Vice President, Seks, said that the committee did not go to deny the will of the electoral body, which in its own presentation he claimed the opposite, because he said that 717 thousand signatures were not questionable and that they had declared that the referendum was being called. Well, then how can you cast doubt and relativize this whole procedure if you've established it?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58214	What you're correcting is not clear what you're correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58215	I'm correcting that Mr. Shakespeare said that the board respects the electoral body, that is, what the Constitution tells him, is that 10% if he comes together to call questions, I'm correcting it, that's what he said. And that's not true, because all of his actions show the opposite of not respecting those 717 thousand signatures, because now we've been listening to the last few minutes of a lecture about how they've been collected, whether it's round somewhere, whether or not. But it's pointless to discuss at all when you respected them on the board. What is only important you should if 10% of signatures are collected to call a referendum. That means you don't respect the will of the electoral body.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58216	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure again vice president of the House and chairman of the board, distinguished representative Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58217	When I tell my colleague Maras that the board respected the will of the electoral bodies, I say that for the reason that I also stated on the board that the committee had reflected the will of the electoral body because it had succeeded in its efforts to withdraw the Labour Act. The amendment and addition of the Labour Act was referred in the lab section of these several articles to collective agreements. Both the referendum issue and the citizens who declared and the organisational committee wanted to prevent the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Labour Act relating to the collective agreement with the referendum. And it worked. The government pulled the law and it worked. So voters who asked for a referendum to be called asked for a referendum to prevent the adoption of amendments to the Labour Act, and they succeeded. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58218	Please don't throw it out of the bench. Please stick to the time granted or envisaged for individual cases. We're continuing the debate. It is the turn of the IDS club, the distinguished representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58219	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I think it's a good thing Mr. Shakespeare called earlier. Why? Because it is now clearly unequivocal that the government has sought in every way possible simply to challenge the holding of this referendum. Right? That's right. Of course I will support this referendum. On the other hand, it is clear that HDZ will not allow elections before the election, it would be political suicide. They're crazy enough to get themselves out of position. They're probably not, and they don't need to be underestimated normally in that part. It is also clear to all of us, as well as to the citizens that the gentlemen's referendum costs. How much does he cost? It costs about 170 million kunas in the words of the competent ministries. In order for the state to see this thing also in this assembly, both in unions and in citizens, in order for the state to receive 170 million kuna, someone must, for example. Sell around 700 million kunas of something, issue invoices so that then, through those 23% of the state's VAT, the state can earn that money. It's not banana money 170 kuna clearly it's not. But what we're going to cost democracy, we wanted the state, we have the state, we have to pay all these institutes, direct citizens' decision-making costs the same cost, the referendum costs, and indeed the elections themselves when they happen and they cost. Everything else is far more expensive without it. I dare say for this indignity when it comes to this referendum, first of all, it's the ones who run this government. First, it is the government's fault because of this very shameful count of votes where the government's wisest ministers of the administration, the Home Office, I suppose by the order of Mrs. Kosor, have even concluded in one way and thus come to the public that 500 thousand votes are invalid. So it was no problem to count those votes, so clearly it was necessary to count the votes, but the problem was that they concluded at one point that 500 thousand votes were invalid. We used to listen to these observations about the dead, etc. Dead souls, that enigma I think when it comes to Croatia is almost indecisive, but when it comes to Croatia to being cynical it is logical. We are normally one religious community, a Catholic country, 90, and I don't know how many percent of us are declared believers, we believe that afterlife on this or that world anyway. Here it was yesterday, gentlemen, proved that Moses had passed his people through the sea or said through the Nile, ok, but I also call upon the government, through one sleeve of the Nile, I call upon the government not to lead us through the sea. It's in the Bible but now these scientists have said through one glove of the Nile. It does not matter what Moses spent his people through now, but let the thirsty government guide us not through the water.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58220	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58221	It is the government's fault, gentlemen, that it has proposed an unnecessary amendment to the Labour Act. Who asked for amendments to the Labour Act? The employers aren't, the workers aren't, the Parliament isn't. Who thought of this brilliant idea of going to change the Labour Act, as we also talked yesterday about pension insurance all day long. And now we see we've driven the nation crazy, not us, but those who suggested it, that the law would come into force from 1.10, and now the law is withdrawing. They'll be in second reading of another condition. Many have lost their jobs, where they find it again, etc., etc. And where are we today? About 20, 30 days ago, the government was there at the end of the 8th or early of the 9th month, simply by me, engaged in a dangerous game of disputed signatures. It is not a problem that these signatures were counted but that they were engaged in a disputed signature. Afterwards, all responded clearly when 500 thousand signatures of fear were challenged. So who guarantees that this team in power, let's say the next day, will respect the election will of the citizens. However, it is equally tragic that this counting of signatures in my court was aimed at scaring citizens. The citizens were almost dared to say no, so look, these guys have almost 800 grand in some files, and it's like they sent a message to other people if you decide to do something like that the next day, and we'll have you. We're the ones who can even undo 500 thousand signatures. I would even dare say today that by any chance Mr. Shex or through the board has served means this equilibrist, that you have not served yourself and that you have not somehow saved the government, that you have agreed to this majority that could have voted against these signatures so that we would have had a lot of events in that period since the last month like those we had yesterday in Split through those protests of Brodosplit workers. On the other hand, what also bothered people, why on the government's pages, they simply started to find individuals on the web. How is that, for example? The defenders who want to meet on the web simply can't, and here the signatories of the petition can. And it's a dangerous game, a game that just shouldn't be repeated anymore, so whatever it is. Now, where's the problem with this referendum? I agree, there are several problems, these may not be fully regulated by these regulations and others, the withdrawal of this Labour Act from the procedure. Croatia only once, if I'm not mistaken, had a referendum, so it was there in '91. A year. In my court, unnecessarily, when it comes to the referendum, Croatia amended those provisions by proposing an ordinary majority to ensure that citizens would stand behind the European Union, but we did not, but again those who proposed it did not believe that someone in this country would come up to 450 thousand signatures. I warned in my discussions when changing the constitution, but the one who was shining clearly now had some harvest. If the provision on the majority of the majority remained, it is clear that the citizens of Croatia would vote for Europe, but it would not be possible to, for example, vote. A minority comes out of the referendum the next day and is considered to be a very important decision. In Croatia if I'm not mistaken, with that '91 referendum. In the year, only Mr. Condic was able to collect if I wasn't wrong 10% and then clearly some other government, I mean right, but she did it right, she rejected the statement about that stupid proposal that was written in this building. Normally, if I was against that referendum, there's no secret. Today, logically, I wouldn't mind having a referendum on the same day and having elections for the new government or for the parliamentary majority happen, but I can see that it won't come after us for a while. On the other hand, it is also a fundamental issue, this referendum should be held within 30 days. Now, what if the law referring to that referendum was withdrawn? The law even if I'm not mistaken isn't even included in the agenda, it's just passed to the Parliament, but the question persists and I think we should ask the citizens. I'm not going to say that citizens, as you are constantly hearing from some, didn't know what they were signing, but I agree with what Beus said earlier and Mr. Shakespeare, that among other things, the citizens were pleading against the government. That's also true. If the situation were certainly complex, we could see about the wanderings, almost all of them, first of all, they're not, so it would be a little bit like this, so it would be a little bit like that. Mr. Smerdel says I'm against no need, other constitutional lecturers say we're in, the law is gone. Those third ask why then spend 170 million kunas, better perhaps to solve 5,000 people with severances, perhaps better build one ship, perhaps it is better to pay for the damage to the floods of the citizens of Istria or make a rash here around Velika Gorica, etc., etc. These are all problems, but no matter what, I think this referendum should simply be respected. On the other hand, I talked about it yesterday, and the unions were rightly up. This law that was proposed almost aimed at eradicating trade unions from that union, labour, or I don't know what kind of scene. Where do our unions mostly work? They mostly operate in the public sector. In Croatia, 387 thousand of us are connected to the public sector, which is 8.7% of the total number of citizens. In one Austria, it is 4.7%, 7000 less than in Croatia, and Austria has two times as many inhabitants. Clearly, there are no unions without the public sector. In the private sector, if we exempt the privatised large systems, they almost don't work. I claim that in unions of 1.5 million people working somewhere there may be 500 to 600 thousand. On the other hand, we already have about 300 thousand of us today as employers, craftsmen, small companies, individuals, us as judges, etc. We can't be in the union, the manager and all that. So, this referendum, from the beginning of when Mr Spratz actually said on Croatian radio, what he said after you suggested that the TV cut the compensation turned literally into a question of trust to the government, and maybe the unionists themselves didn't want it. They may not have wanted to question the government's trust but the people wanted it and they wanted it and that's why I clearly signed this referendum. It bothers me when someone says the same people have signed 30, 40 times I don't know those generals. So when I came to Pula, I gave my ID. The activist wrote my name, copied the number from her personal address, and I normally signed it as it was written let go of what was written there and it was done for the presidential elections and so it has been done until now and when Mr. Hebrang and Damir Cain taught the candidacy for these last elections. Let's not just paint! We know how it is, and we've been through it. Yeah. So, one more time. This request, gentlemen, I think that's how it is. We can do whatever we want here now, do all these... and libristics, but that's how it's always been, and someone should have warned people about it, so it would be harder to get to this number of votes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be harder to come, but perhaps through such interpretations you want the referendums not to happen in the future. So this referendum issue is also a question of collective agreements between gentlemen and the public sector issue and the question of clear trust in the government. It is more than just trust or vote on the Labour Act, but it is a question of trade union survival and therefore no one has the right to play with the legitimate will of more than 719000 Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58222	However, I must warn you, Your Honor, that this referendum is exclusively about what the referendum issue is about. We can't expand the content that we'd like it to contain. What's a referendum question is the subject and the referendum, and now we have a small series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First distinguished representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58223	Mr. Vice President, I am correcting Mr. Cain's completely incorrect allegations regarding the passage of Moses across the Red Sea. Namely, scientific theories about this are very, very fluid and what Mr. Cain said was that a new scientific theory appeared that it was about a Nile glove, not the Red Sea, that's amateur imaginations. These are amateur imaginations, such as the idea that this transition across the Red Sea was caused by the fall, the collapse of Atlantis, the sea retreated, and then Moses crossed the Red Sea. It seems to me that quotes like this, such metaphors in a serious Polish debate, are still too high.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58225	But you didn't follow the press yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58226	No benching. Moses is what Selem Peter says. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58227	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain said a whole series of incorrect allegations. One of these is, and I'm just gonna name two. The great law was meant to erase the unions. So if Cain's protecting the unions, then they're really bad at writing. In principle, he calls them at almost every other session, and the second is where he said the government has embarked on a dangerous game of disputed signatures and is intimidated by citizens. Well, in democratic states, it's the legal procedure that needs to be followed. Well, it's not like you and your colleague Cain think that if these dead people here were listed as signers, then it's not like you think they're resurrected to go sign, so when they saw what they signed, they died again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58228	I don't know who the bigger union is, you or Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58229	No benching. Please, nice! Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative of Andrija Hebrang, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58230	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm correcting my colleague Cain's misstatement. I quote: "The government of the Republic of Croatia has said that 500,000 signatures are invalid." That's what the government never said. She pointed to those who were against the law, but she said the number of those who were in accordance with the law was enough. The second thing I'm correcting is that counting the signatures was intimidation. No, the intimidation was when the SDP government declared the legal and legitimate signatures of the defenders invalid. Thirdly, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data said the government had not sinned on the law. The names she published blacked out JMBG, therefore she did not make a mistake. Finally, and least importantly, he said that after a statement by Mr. Spreyz, the government reacted. The government reacts to decent and objective sources, not to Mr Spratz's statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58231	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58232	I would like to correct Mr. Cain's incorrect claim that the government has embarked on contesting the signature. This is not true but, on the basis of the conclusion of the Board of the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of the Interior, it has submitted a detailed report to the Committee on the collection of signatures.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58233	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting Mr. Cain's quote. We're able to undo 500,000 signatures. It's not about cancelling the signature. It's absolutely incorrect, but it's about pointing to breach procedures, checking numbers and credibility of demands. And you're not going to start convincing us here that the deceased persons are foreigners and persons deprived of their ability to do business in voter status. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58235	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58236	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm joining all these incorrect allegations. It's special to my ear, unlike my colleague, Lek stuck this one in my ear that the government tried in all ways to challenge the holding of the referendum. That's absolutely incorrect, because it's secured in the 170 million budget, which, by the way, you didn't vote or you weren't there. You guys always cook up like that, so there's no vote. It's an old rule. There was also a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, you called ministers wise men, etc. But indeed, the government is to blame for this and for that. I'm kind of being joined by your debate on that song "Stack Mujo in Tepsia" or "I've got to hit something." So why weren't you so persistent in hitting that coalition government when the rights of workers were reduced, reduced by nurses, Croatian wartime disabled and everyone else. Then why weren't you persistent? But there's a positive shift with you, that you started calling yourself a believer. Well, perhaps the dear God will help you to enlighten yourself, and to start speaking positive things a little bit, or to hear your eternal desire to go into the woods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58237	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Your Honor. Please don't throw it out of the bench. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's some colleagues have already corrected the incorrect allegations, but I'm going to repeat my fellow Caine once again, when he said that checking the signature is actually scaring the citizens. Well, if you've been following the situation a little bit better then you should have seen that the signature check was exclusively and was aimed at verifying, or establishing the exact number and credibility of the signature, and no intimidation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58239	Thank you. And we're moving on with the club debate. It's the HDZ Club, the Honorable Representative Emil Tomljanović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So here I will begin by saying that the proposed conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system regarding the calling of a referendum on the draft Law amending the Labour Act absolutely needs to be adopted. A representative club in terms of support, the HDZ in support of this proposal or support of the proposed conclusion has three principles in principle in the first place. The first of them is that, with a political question, this issue is also a first-class constitutional issue and a question of law enforcement. The second solution, i.e. the decision of the Croatian Parliament, must necessarily be based on the provisions of the Constitution, as well as the constitutional law and the referendum law. And thirdly, any question that arises or will arise in terms of the possibility of calling a referendum, regardless of any political views, is only possible with the application of the principle of constitutionality and legality. Namely, the conclusion in question or the proposed conclusion calls for Article 95 of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which regulates this very new situation in terms of the possibility of demand, namely the request of the Croatian Parliament of the Constitutional Court, to establish, but not only whether the contents of the referendum issue are in accordance with the Constitution, but whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) are fulfilled. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for its opening, with a concrete referendum issue, but also given the fact that on 3 September 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia withdrew from the procedure a proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. Of course, in order to understand this Constitutional Law Institute, it is necessary to pre-analyze Article 87 itself. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution provides for the possibility of calling a referendum, but in three different situations. The first of them is therefore when it comes to the proposal for a change of the Constitution, the second when it comes to the bill and the third when it comes to the second issue of the Croatian Parliament's section, and these other issues, of course, do not include amendments to the bill, nor amendments, or amendments to the Constitution. On these issues, the Croatian Parliament will issue a referendum in accordance with the law. I repeat in accordance with the law, if required by 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia. About that number and the first assumption, I think there's been enough talk. Neither the Committee on the Constitution nor the Government disputed that percentage, that number, that statement by any act or document. But the question also arises whether it is necessary to point out all the illegalities or irregularities that appear in the report of the resolution ministries, and just now the Committee on the Constitution has requested this report to verify not only the number, but also the credibility of the signatures collected, or the data collected. Is it really not necessary to ask in the parliamentary debate or the evidence in this place how it is possible for more than 60 thousand people, so 60 thousand people wrongly entered the home number, or how it is possible that 14 thousand 702 voters are double-written or enlisted, or that 56 people who died before the start of the deadline for signing are on the list? Whether it is allowed and how it is possible to include 171 foreigners on the list. So all of this represents a harsh violation of the law. Absolutely. As such, it is legally inadmissible, and it may mostly speak in what atmosphere and procedure the signatures in terms of the referendum's call initiative and for what purpose. Therefore, as regards further constitutional legal bases and social dialogue. It is not a fact that the very request for a referendum by the organisational committee is directly related to the amendment of certain provisions of the Labour Act, and contained in the draft Law amending the Labour Act, "National Journal" No 149/09. It is obvious that the possibility of calling a referendum is also directly related to a concrete bill. So this is a concrete bill, and I stress this because in some discussions, even the Committee on the Constitution has come up thinking that only the referendum issue has nothing to do with the amendments to the Labour Act, so here I will quote from the document of the Organizational Committee, which is the opening paragraph, which I am saying, so I quote or quote after voters have assessed that there is a need to call a referendum on amendments to certain provisions of the Labour Act, which are contained in the draft Law amending the Labour Act. So the question arises what happens in a situation where the concrete proposal for amending the law has been withdrawn from the procedure. Not only does logical thinking point to the conclusion that the essence of a referendum statement has ceased to exist. There is therefore no concrete proposal for a law on which voters should be manifested in the referendum itself. This constitutional and legal issue, i.e. the referendum issue and only the implementation of the referendum in that sense, therefore in this sense it loses its constitutional and legal foothold. All those who advocate opinion and propose that the referendum should nevertheless be implemented bring the entire course of the referendum process into a position which is not, which is constitutionally and logically not possible to defend from these legislative withdrawal positions. The second constitutional and legal problem is also the content and formulation of a referendum issue which comes down to it in its essence, therefore, whether voters are in favour of retaining the applicable legal provisions. So I repeat, are there any additional or extended application of the legal rules to maintain the applicable legal provisions. Therefore, the referendum question is essentially whether citizens are in force for legal provisions, which is a law in force and those provisions are therefore applicable. Is it possible to expect future proposals for referendum issues concerning other applicable regulations, regardless of which regulation they discuss? For example, we could list any law or provision of the law that the Croatian Parliament has passed and which are in full application. We will agree that this represents an absurd situation that does not have its foothold either in the referendum law or in the cited article 87. The Constitution of the In line with all the above, and since the newly-established situation in question concerning the possibility of calling a referendum is primarily a constitutional and legal issue to support the proposal for the conclusion of the Committee, and the proposal for the conclusion of the Committee is that the Constitutional Court determines from the position of its jurisdiction, that is, the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, whether the constitutional and legal requirements for the opening of the referendum are met. And not only that, it should be stressed that it would at least be absurd for the referendum to protect the right that we already have and which right is being exercised under the applicable legislation. Therefore, according to all the above, the HDZ Representatives Club supports this proposal in this regard. Therefore, the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system in order to require that these constitutional and legal relevant facts be based on Article 95 of the Constitutional Law, I repeat, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58241	Thank you. We now have a few clear corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the honourable representative, Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Tomljanovic, on behalf of the club of MPs, incorrectly argues that the referendum issue is exclusively related to the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act. That's not true. The referendum issue fully self-existes because citizens want to decide on their own in their own part and jurisdiction whether the current solution to relations with workers in the Republic of Croatia should be maintained or can be changed at the discretion of the Government or today's Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is an entirely legitimate demand for both citizens and trade unions. So, no matter what act has been withdrawn, the issue is self-existing and the citizens have spoken of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58244	You can't respect 717 thousand signatures and say we didn't do anything, nobody did anything about it or the government was... That doesn't stand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58245	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague has injured the Rules of Procedure in the sense that I did not say so, especially not in this second part when you mentioned that a representative of the club said that we do not respect 717 thousand signatures of voters. That's absolutely incorrect and incorrect. As incorrect is your first part of the correction. I didn't just refer to the fact that the law was withdrawn from the procedure, but as one of the facts that I didn't say the most important thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58247	Thank you. I would ask all those who report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure to say the article to which they are called, who is injured. Because then I can't see if he's hurt or not, I don't know what article to look for. Thank you very much. Joseph Leko's injuring the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58248	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 and 214 has been injured because my colleague Tomljanovic has qualified my speech incorrectly, not polymising with my assessment. Thank him for that, and I'm staying at what I said. And you should have told him that it was my right to speak for myself and his constituents, and his right to speak for himself and his constituents. And they will decide who is right and who is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58249	Your Honor, if that were the case, if we came to that level in this House that there was something incorrect that was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would be very happy. Thank you very much, let's move on. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct that part of Mr. Tomljanovic's presentation in which he expressed his surprise that they might have been on the list of dead people, etc. Well, you see it's very possible in a country where the dead can vote, that they vote multiple times in more places, that there are more voters than residents. The only thing that remains for me is to wonder how you wonder how you might be surprised at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58251	Let's stick to the Rules of Procedure, correct incorrect allegations. Let's not try to be funny about correcting false allegations. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58252	And this article 209 very briefly, at the very beginning, a colleague said that he was correcting my exposure. So, in that sense, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You can correct my incorrect claim, and you haven't corrected any. You're trying to be funny, and you're trying to be a counterproduct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58253	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58254	Thank you. The incorrect quote of counterpart Tomljenovic, who questioned whether the signatures were properly collected, because if everything that HDZ resents, what remains, is over 10%. And the Constitution says that the parliament will seek, or call a referendum if it requires 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia. So the legitimacy of this request does not question certain things that may be suspicious, because those clean are certainly over 10%. It reminds me of that debate when they're discussing how much cargo or donkey has teeth so one of them says count, they won't count, they won't count.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58255	You're out of time, so we're not counting our teeth. Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58256	A colleague, Tomljanovic, claimed it was necessary to request a decision, the opinion of the Constitutional Court just as I wrote it, literally as he said, as the legislative proposal was withdrawn. Furthermore, it is incorrect what he later stated, because if he did, it is absurd to discuss a referendum if there is no law. So this is the basic meaning of the referendum's content that on every issue from the Parliament's section, whether the existing law has been resolved in one way or another, to change, to stay, or to solve something that has not been resolved in the country at all, it is the general content of the referendum issue. So it's absurd what you're doing right now. You're raping the Constitution, you're dragging it out in every way possible to demean the will of the people because it's clear to everyone that the referendum is not just a referendum on this issue, it's a referendum on the government. That hurts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58257	I must warn you that you have now used a much harder word than it is incorrect, which is rape. I've never seen anything rape in my life. Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Tanja Vrbat please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58258	Thank you. I'll try to do it in school. I would also like to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Tomljanovic, who, as I wrote, said that the request of the organisational committee is directly related to a concrete proposal to amend the Labour Act. I would like to support the untrueness of this decision to approach the voter's statement on the need to request a referendum to be called by the Organising Committee on Calls, which does not mention in any word the Law which later, this 4th Ten. It is later mentioned but in the initial documents no, we have in the materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58259	No throwing, please. Thank you. Then the correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58260	I am correcting the quote of my colleagues, Tomljanovic, who said that following the withdrawal of the labour law, the constitutional legal basis for calling the referendum ceased. I don't think that's an exact quote for two reasons. First, the withdrawal of the proposed amendments to the Labour Act is and can be temporary, not permanent. And secondly, the decision in the mandatory referendum, and the referendum law recognises two such referendums, which is the one about association and disunity and the one caused by at least 10% of voters, is unchangeable except for the new referendum. Therefore, the Constitutional and Legal basis and after the withdrawal of the amendments to the Labour Act exist that the Croatian Parliament is calling a referendum because citizens have the right to seek a referendum not only in the bill's proposal but also in the possible announcement of amendments to the Law in which something is abolished and introduced. Therefore, I stand on the grounds that they are not... constitutionally-legal grounds for calling a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58261	Thank you. It is still as the last correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Szazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58262	It is an incorrect claim by Mr Tomljanovic that it is absurd for a referendum to protect the law that already exists in the law. In fact, the referendum was called when the government showed a clear intention to annul this labour law that exists in the law. And that was the reason for the referendum. In addition, if the referendum is not carried out, this national referendum, whose will can only be annulled by a new referendum, the government may, as it has withdrawn the law, restore it to a procedure in another form by revoking this right again. Therefore, these referendums protect citizens, workers, from their right to protect themselves from the government's obvious intention to annul this right and, in a statement of no confidence to that same government, to withdraw the law will not satisfy their will.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58263	Thank you. And the last club today that's registered, the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58264	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The whole thing about this debate that took place at the Parliament went wrong or wrong at some point. Instead of talking, dialogue that talks on collective agreements were concluded where they belonged, they came here to the Parliament. And apparently he's trying not to be the last cell of the issue but to move on to the Constitutional Court. This only shows colleagues and colleagues, that an important part of our institutions from negotiators who have participated in this important and sensitive, social and economic issue, and that to us here in the Parliament, we are actually avoiding what must be the basis of every democracy and every sense of political action, and this is not only representing our views and our beliefs, and our interests and our rights, but also the ability to negotiate with those with different interests, different rights and different views. Therefore, the SDSS Club is not only not happy that the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure decided to send this issue further to the Constitutional Court, but will not be able to support such a conclusion. Not because we doubt the good intentions of those who voted that kind of conclusion but because we think the thing should be put back where it was supposed to be solved. And this House must not run away from that thing. Otherwise, in a situation which is politically delicate socially delicate, economically in some elements and more than delicate, we are actually trying to avoid a decision that belongs to us and transfer jurisdiction to the Constitutional Court and thus further potentially strengthen relations between social partners in society. And in this way, to further create space for this or that group to be a cheerleading party, I'm talking about the Parliament and I'm talking about a political scene on an important issue, which is collective agreements and union activities. For this reason, we at the SDSS Club think that the best solution would be that this Parliament, I think of the House as a whole, takes note of the conclusion of its Committee on the Constitution, but at the same time draws a conclusion that calls on the government and the union to continue negotiations, calls on the government and the union to reach an agreement on what is controversial. And two things aren't controversial. So it is not disputed that the union has collected a sufficient number of signatures to hold a referendum, regardless of the fact that some kinds of mistakes have been made in this collection. But that's not controversial. The second thing that is not disputed is that the government has withdrawn its bill and in this sense we in the House have no basis for discussing the scale of things, and that is the question of the validity of the collective agreement. What remains as disputed is the issue of mutual trust between the government and the union, so between the social partners. And we should discuss here now, how and what about that trust. And we cannot restore that trust, but we will give the Constitutional Court to decide. And the Constitutional Court cannot discuss trust, we can discuss it, because trust is not a matter of legislation, but of political and social. And for this reason, I think that we can best make the conclusion that the government and the union are calling for negotiations, not only in the dialogue, but also in the negotiations, to come up with a solution that will ensure that nothing will happen to either side, and in this case clearly the union, because it is in a position to feel weaker, at least in terms of decisions if not in terms of public support, what it requires or what it requires to reach an agreement on which the collective agreement, its validity, its contents will not unilaterally change, but through the basis of talks, the basis of negotiations between the government, the trade union and other signatories of the social partnership. In this sense, the SDSS Club believes it would be good if the ruling coalition had not been in the interest of the ruling coalition after this and each other, because further tightening and further spreading of misunderstandings and further spreading of mistrust with trade unions is certainly not in the interest of the ruling coalition, it is certainly not in the interest of what is most important at the moment, which is that there is no further instability and that we are able to manage the processes that need to be managed. Because we now have the following open issues, it is a question of shipyards that additionally burden social, economic and political relations in society. And I don't think it's wise to give the question of trust to the Constitutional Court under some kind of interpretation that it's not a matter of trust, but that it's a matter of interpreting some kind of legislative misunderstanding, if there's anything else to call a referendum on. Well, there's something the government and the union don't agree on. And since they've escaped to agree on it, then let's invite them to agree on it, and that's our job. I ask you colleagues and colleagues that if you do not support this, we should seriously consider such an opportunity, because it is our obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58265	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. He is the first respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58266	According to my deepest conviction, Mr. Pupovac's claim is incorrect, that an invitation to a union-government deal could resolve this situation. The union has organised signatures, but the collected signatures are no longer union property, they are citizens' property. The citizens have certainly expressed their will, we want a referendum. The time for a deal existed for both the coalition government and the union. That time was expendable, it didn't score. Citizens at the union's invitation and in the union's organisation expressed their will. That will no longer has the right to undo, nor the union that has initiated the petition, nor the government, nor the Constitutional, nor this Parliament. That will must be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58267	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of the Bors Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58268	So I'd like to correct where my colleague Pupovac says the government and unions should sit down and agree not to unilaterally change collective agreements. Well, they don't have anything to sit around, it's prescribed by law. Well, at this point, the government didn't want to end it, but it wanted to cut the deadline to six months for those collective contracts that are worth endlessly. And she just wanted to end the infinity of collective agreements that don't exist anywhere in the world. And that's where the problem came from. So she didn't want to break up. We did have the chance that the Government did not respect collective agreements in 2000, unilaterally did not want to respect them, we have such an example, but this government did not want to do so but wanted to shorten the deadline in which it holds that 6 months would be an appropriate time for employers and trade unions to reach certain rights through negotiations, not to be infinitely worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58269	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Boris Kunst, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58270	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to discuss this conclusion of the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure briefly, given that we have heard such a statement here today that even today some MPs do not really know why they signed, pleaded, cast a voice to the unions, and would make a chronology short. Let us remind ourselves that on 28 May this year the Government submitted to the Croatian Assembly of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Labour Act and that two things were controversial. Article 262, which limits the extended application of the legal rules contained in the collective agreement, i.e. the contract after the expiry of the period on which it has been concluded. The Labour Act now allows for the extended application of collective agreements until new collective agreements are concluded, i.e. there is no time limit for new collective agreements to be concluded. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, which must adapt laws and regulations to economic economic and social conditions, has proposed that, after the expiry of the deadline on which the contracts are concluded, they apply until new collective agreements are concluded, but no longer than 6 months. It is this 6-month deadline that the government holds to be sufficient in which trade unions could perform their basic function and negotiate new legal rules in a collective contract through a democratic procedure. So that's one questionable article. The second is disputed where, in Article 263 of that proposed Labour Act, collective agreements concluded for a specified period of time may only be cancelled if such possibility is provided for in the collective agreement itself. If not, then they may not be cancelled but cease to apply to the deadline on which they are concluded. The government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed that collective agreements must have agreed chapters on cancelling reasons and deadlines that all European collective agreements have. Nothing new suggested that other collective agreements don't have. And if such heads were not agreed, then the notice period would be one month. The unions wouldn't accept that. Since this agreement has not been reached, what we're talking about the trade unions have taken advantage of the possibility and joined the voter citizens' pleading and the signing, they've asked for a referendum to be called on a referendum on a referendum issue that has already been spoken several times here, so there's no need for me to read it again here. The signatures other than the union were collected by opposition political parties, various associations and normally, part of those who wanted to use this union initiative for their narrow political interests. And today, the SDP's representatives have just admitted that in principle the referendum issue is not related to the Labour Act, because it was clear to them that this was good for them to take advantage of the union's initiative in an incorrect, unfair way for their political interests because they have been trying for three years and saying that they need to remove this power so that they can come to power. And they tried that this time, and so they weren't plagued by this social dimension that the unions are talking about, and that's why the unions wanted it, but it's political, and that's what they're doing here today in this debate. On 15 July this year, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System gave the Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs to verify the correctness and credibility of the voters' signature and to deliver the report to the Croatian Parliament. And what's controversial about it is that we should agree on that in the SDP as well. A colleague, Leko, says that for democracy, to comply with laws, regulations, for a democratic society, his colleague says that this is nonsense, which should be respected, this should not be respected, etc. But that's a question within the party where you have to agree is to respect democracy, legal regulations or not. So you don't need to be angry when a signature check has identified certain irregularities such as that some people died before they signed. And now what's the problem with being? People aren't alive, and they signed it. Some people did not sign, names did not correspond to the home number of citizens or the home number did not correspond to the person who signed it. Why be angry if it's said publicly, and it's ultimately an obligation to talk about it. However, the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System has found that 717 thousand 149 voters, if these other things are not taken into account, are valid signatures and that this is enough to call a referendum. In the meantime, I remind you, the government is withdrawing on September 3rd of this year from the process of passing the Law amending the Labour Act, with a final draft of the law. And now we are actually coming to the question of all the questions, whether there is a need and whether a referendum on a question that is no longer current can be held at all, and it simply does not exist anymore. These stories, the interpretations, is now imaginary something exists because they are... These are stories for small children that even those citizens who look at it cannot chew because the amendments to the Labour Act are no longer in the process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The referendum issue speaks of part of the content of the Labour Act relating to collective agreements, meaning it does not have the effect of banning future amendment and supplementing that Labour Act. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System asked the Constitutional Court in such a logic of legal and legal void to determine whether there were fulfilled assumptions for the opening of a referendum with such a referendum question which the citizens supported by their signature, but which is no longer due to the fact that the Government has just respected the wish of citizens, the wish of social partners and withdrawn from the procedure of the law because of these two articles or parts of the text which was disputed in the Labour Act itself and is now in fact no longer current. And for that reason, I think that the government of the Republic of Croatia's move is very commendable because, as I said, it has made it clear that it respects the will of the citizens, what you say does not respect. But I will remind you that the government, in which you were also in it, did not respect the will of the citizens, did not respect the will of the workers or the union, and for that are the exact evidence. And you would now actually want this government to repeat the same thing you did because at the time it simply demonstrated force and haughtiness and did not respect collective agreements for which the normal work of collective agreements applied to the rights of civil servants and tenants, and which came to be charged to this particular government. That's what we talked about yesterday in the current class, so I don't want to tell you again. Also, you ignored the unions, and I'll remind you of the union's will when you changed the Labour Act. That's when you didn't invite the unions to the negotiations. I remember, come on God gave him his soul easy, the late prime minister talked to us about it and said no, no, no. We're not gonna let any changes to the Labour Act in the procedure until we agree with you. While he said that, as we descended from Mark's square, the law, amendments and additions of the Labour Act were already under discussion here. So, let's not switch or try hypocritically to deceive the citizens when it just doesn't make sense anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58271	Thank you. And now we have four corrections to the incorrect assumption. First is Honourable representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58272	Well, my colleague Kunst, by the way, tried to explain in the entire debate that the people we signed didn't know what we were signing. Says the MPs didn't know why he signed it. Well, my colleague Kunst, as a citizen, I signed a motion to convene a referendum very well knowing why I'm doing it. And I signed it so that my signature wouldn't manipulate as you and the government today did and signed a referendum and that citizens would say whether collective agreements were worth without restrictions or were worth what you said infinity didn't change, but that the infinity of HDZ would be reduced to six months. The citizens already have enough of that policy of yours to pull and pull. Now you're pulling the law, and next week you're gonna pull it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58273	Please stick to the mode of correction. You said you'd do something else to solve that you weren't on the ten-minute list, but not that way. Please! Let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58274	It is an incorrect claim by counterpart Kunst that the government has respected the citizens' wish by withdrawing the draft labour law from the procedure. The citizens' wish is to hold a referendum and the government can respect the desire we are discussing today or will not respect it. So the government will propose to the HDZ Club to vote on this proposal to the Constitutional Committee and thus show that it does not respect citizens' wishes. The government had the opportunity to respect the citizens' wish on this issue while discussions and negotiations with the union lasted. But as she didn't want to respect the public's wish at the time, it's obvious from this presentation of yours, and it's quite clear she doesn't want it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58275	And we have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58276	I have too little time to correct what is incorrectly said. All I'm saying is that my colleague Kunst connected unconnectedly. But this phonogram should be preserved and called Kunst's referendum lesson.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58277	Your Honor, you have abused the Institute of Correction of an incorrect allegation. You haven't fixed anything. You haven't even tried it, and next time at least try it. Please! Let's move on. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58278	Thank you very much. I am correcting Mr. Kunst's incorrect claim that he is the government and that it is a pardon that the board respected the will of Croatian citizens. I am one of those citizens who signed this referendum, thank you very much for congratulating me and another 717000 of the unequivocal signatures that the citizens have given. And don't mind Mr. Kunst what we don't trust you to return the law to procedure. There's no guarantee. And that is why we cannot be satisfied with what you are doing or accept the claim that you respected the will of Croatian citizens, these 717000.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58279	Your Honor, you're in charge of the replica? It's been twice now. Changed my mind. That's good. Then let's move on with the debate individually. Well, you're the very kind representative of Gordan Maras, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58280	Thank you very much. After Mr. Kunst's inspired debate, it's horrible to argue because everything you say seems much better. What HDZ has now done, in my personal opinion, is a clear blow to the very foundations of democracy in Croatia. I'll try to explain it. Citizens rule this country by choosing their representatives every four years. What else can they do between these two dates, between the two choices, and how can they express their will? One of these ways, and one of the most fundamental ones recorded in the Constitution, is that it is in some way asking Parliament to call a referendum on its signatures. That this does not often prove that this would be the second referendum in the Republic of Croatia. So, citizens can neither, nor often practice this way of democratic governance because of what it is, and it's a very high threshold to collect 400,000 signatures, and in some ways we're taking away their petty right today, a little right to say to the government with their vote and their decision, they say to those they chose two and three years ago what and how they would like and in some ways to declare themselves in a referendum. I wonder how a first referendum would have been called in the first place if HDZ had been put in this way, if HDZ had been put in this way when the first referendum was called, they might still be in the former state. He could do the same to HDZ and then think whether or not to avoid the opening of the first referendum. Fortunately not, but that doesn't mean that the next referendum has the right to do what it's doing today. What has undoubtedly been established, all of which are said by representatives of the board and representatives of the HDZ, the ruling majority. 717000 signatures have been collected. And now what's unclear? Is that more than 10% of the electoral body? Does anyone have a problem with that? Here, I'd like to ask you experts, there are some for math, tell us if it's more than 10% of the electoral body? ... More. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Does the constitution say a referendum will be called if more than 10% of the voter's signatures are collected? Speak. Why aren't we calling? Why we're trying to find a way for citizens' will not to come true. The only possible answer is the one that we all know, it doesn't suit you, but it doesn't give you the right because HDZ doesn't suit you to ignore the wish of Croatian citizens. Well, no party is above the people, and you've put yourself in this situation. And that this is not a unique example in Europe is also an example from seven days ago in Slovakia. I'll remind you of the situation that happened there. In the 6th month, citizens collected 300 thousand signatures, otherwise they have 5 and 300 thousand, 5 million and 300 thousand voters, so even fewer than in Croatia, the president of the state has called because that is how the referendum is going and the vote is now on issues already in the legal procedure that will be resolved. So the party that initiated the referendum in the 6th month is in the process, as it won the elections in the meantime, put the issue in the process that wanted to be called in the referendum, and four out of six issues will likely be adopted. And yet there was a referendum. So this question again whether there is a need if the government withdraws or does not withdraw its proposal. Well, of course there are needs, and that's what the Slovaks did, because they want to hear what their citizens think about a particular issue. And what I said, they don't trust you from the ruling coalition, and there's no need to believe, because they're the ones who should decide how things are going to go on, not to be kind of released to mercy and mercy, and to the knowledge and ignorance of the ruling coalition and HDZ whether they're going to refer to the procedure again, the Law amending the Labour Act. So we have a similar country as Croatia, which had the same situation, four issues already practically resolved in Parliament, but it did call a referendum anyway. So don't tell me we must be the wisest and smartest people in the world when it comes to the agenda. Why do the Slovaks give their citizens a referendum, and we don't? When we talk about the reason, I said the reason is very simple, HDZ doesn't respond, HDZ doesn't want citizens to say what they think about such a way of ruling, so that's what even Vice President Shakespeare said, he said he drugged the citizens to come sign. What do you mean, drugs are citizens? The citizens came and signed, which is their motivation. Well, that doesn't matter at all. Are the citizens stupid not to know what they're signing and what they're signing for? Is it at all specific to representatives in the Croatian Parliament to question why Croatian citizens signed a request for a referendum, like whether they were being drugged, whether they were not being drugged, etc. It doesn't matter at all. What is important is what I said at the beginning, the HDZ, by ignoring the Constitution, hit the very foundations of democracy in Croatia. And one more thing to see being in the ruling coalition in the government of the head. The government adopted a budget rebalancing on 30.8, i.e. this Parliament adopted the government's proposal on 30.8, and now says September 3rd, three days later, the government withdraws from the procedure. So what happened those two, three days ago? Can someone tell us that the government suddenly changed that way and decided I'd say the law was withdrawn. I'll tell you what's changed. What had changed over time, pressured by the decision had to be decided how not to reach the referendum, but in my personal opinion there was no way to avoid the referendum. Croatian citizens must be given the opportunity to vote with their own voice, i.e. to give their voice an opinion on the referendum issue. And I hope that the Constitutional Court will not make a different decision, because that would mean that the Constitutional Court is the same in the role of the ruling coalition and the HDZ government. ... Not if it is not mine, but if it is not according to the will of 717 thousand unequivocally signed signatures, proven, however you wish to graphologically analyzed, without binding, with an alliance, 717 thousand Croatian citizens have signed that they want a referendum and a referendum must be there and there is no possibility that it will not happen. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And one can think one way or another and how it happened, of course everyone has their own perspective, but it's not a problem for those citizens what they were simply motivated by this way of ruling HDZ to sign their signature, no matter what the referendum issue is about. And so here's my conclusion, I can't support this way of solving, I support unions, I support these citizens, and I support all those who today in Croatia, and to do an analysis I'm convinced 99% of Croatian citizens want this referendum to be called. And I support these citizens, and HDZ can avoid that calling, but it will only be possible to avoid the next year until the power changes, and the election of gentlemen will come very soon, so you will see what citizens think of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58281	Your Honor, you have the right to your own opinion and in a manner of debate, but do not put any pressure on the Constitutional Court what decision he should make. Please stay away from such things, such discussions and pressure on the courts. Please don't do this. And now we're going to correct the incorrect allegations, first is the distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58282	Well, Mr. Vice President, MP Maras said a lot, but not true, unlike a colleague of the Temple who said a little but not cleverly. As far as the incorrect allegations are concerned, where the government has denied citizens the right to a referendum. Well, that's incorrect. Even my colleague Maras understands that, but he won't admit it. The government had just respected the will of the citizens and therefore withdrew from the procedure of the Labour Act, which is the issue of collective agreements was disputed in the law itself. Let's try to figure it out. I believe you understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58283	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the esteemed representative, among other things, incorrectly said, I quote: "The content itself represents a blow to the basis of democracy." Absolutely incorrect! The main point of the conclusion is to call for Article 95. The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the appeal to the Constitutional Law cannot in any sense be as you say the blow to the basis of democracy. And an esteemed colleague strikes upon the foundations of democracy or the twilight of democracy is what you have done, and you have put unprecedented pressure on the future decision of the Constitutional Court because if it is not your will, then we are in the twilight of democracy. So it's a blow to the basis of democracy that you do, and you do it all the time, and calling for the constitutional provision of the Constitutional Law, so Article 95 is in no way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58285	Thank you. Dear representative Neda Klaric is correcting the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's at least Mr. Tomljanovic corrected it, but since it's an incorrect quote, Mr. Maras has said it twice and says it's a pure blow to the foundations of democracy. You, Mr. Maras, know very well that the government has only pointed to injuries and has not sent a message that the Croatian Parliament disqualifies 356 thousand signatures. You know that well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58287	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also bow to those who were correcting Mr. Maras' incorrect claim that what we are doing now does not make the will of the citizens come true. This is an absolutely incorrect allegation because the government, by its decision, has actually removed all possible reasons and those that have caused the referendum to be called. And I certainly bow down especially, and then I just picked up the correctional plate, and I bow to all those who responded here when you said that if this court didn't pass a verdict like that, that's proof of that and that. It is true that you have spoken proof that you have made absolutely wrong and I hope that you will have the opportunity to correct it and may even apologize because this is a very dangerous claim, harmful to Croatia, very harmful because in a certain way, it makes judgments, convictions and points out how to God's government has an impact on the Constitutional Court which I absolutely incorrectly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58289	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Maras, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided budget rebalancing with funds for the referendum, not prejudged by the decision of the Croatian Parliament or by the Constitutional Court. And in your speech, you prejudged the Constitutional Court's decision. It is obviously very difficult for you to swallow the fact that there are neither formal legal nor political reasons for this referendum to be called. And you want to challenge the election before the election, which in this way won't really come your way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58291	Thank you very much. And now we have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58292	Dear colleague Maras, I fully agree with you when you talk about HDZ and the government being afraid of the will of citizens. HDZ today, and the government is also very often called upon to speak on behalf of citizens, and now that the citizens have said give us a question today about whether we want collective agreements to have continuous action or whether we want infinity to be reduced to 6 months, the government says if that's not what we're asking you. So then we came up with a whole series of reasons to determine where someone was, what they ate and how he was dressed when he signed the referendum. So then the government declared mathematics a policy because it couldn't determine after 2 months of analysis whether it had 10% signatures or no 10% signatures, but said it was determined by the Parliament's decision. And fortunately, the parliamentary board determined by a political decision and counted that there were 10% signatures. And of course, this people today don't trust the HDZ government because they've withdrawn the bill until the first opportunity. Perhaps until the constitutional break when the Assembly will meet, and then by its regulation, it will settle this issue and subsequently inform the Parliament of what it has done. Of course, then it will no longer be possible to carry out this referendum. And if someone puts pressure on the Constitutional Court, then the ruling majority in this House who convinces all morning that there is no reason because the government has withdrawn the bill and there is no referendum to be held. Isn't that prejudicing the Constitutional Court's decision?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58293	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58294	Thank you very much. You're right about being able to talk politically anyway, but we're MPs here, I guess we have the right to say what our voters think. I again say 99% of the citizens of this country believe that the referendum should be called. Maybe come on, I'll take it into consideration, said counterpart Shakespeare the other day that he has 200,000 HDZ members, maybe one hundred thousand HDZ members don't think, but these other 100,000 probably think. So 99% of the citizens of this country want a referendum to be called, and then they can't accept that the pressure on anyone is only if you're saying what the citizens think. That's why they chose us in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58295	Your Honor, when you said about the Constitutional Court's decision, you spoke exclusively in the first person of the one, not on behalf of the citizens. We've got another replica. It's the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to refer to the presentation of fellow Maras, who spoke about the collected signatures and motivations of citizens who signed for the referendum. Namely, I find it clear to me that HDZ's skepticism of the citizens' motives who signed these papers for the referendum because at the end of last year and early this year they had one negative experience with another type of signing, which is that their prestigious candidate got the most convincing number of signatures, and then didn't enter the second round, and then they know that citizens sometimes sign for Hebrang, and they vote for Bandic, Vidosevic, Primorac and others. So now they're afraid that's not the case with the referendum. Don't be afraid not, the citizens really wanted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58297	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58298	The citizens really wanted it, and we have to give it to them. And there's no excuse, I'll say it again, that the government has withdrawn the law from the procedure can't be a reason for the referendum not to be called. I set an example for us of a similar country which seven days ago for 4 issues that the malts were not solved but in the parliamentary procedure theirs was called a referendum and said the president of their country that it was thrown money, 7 million euros we threw, although those for 5 million voters have a cost of 7 million euros, means 50 million kuna, and we will have 4 million and 200 thousand voters we will have a cost of 170 million, that's the same thing that says about how elections are being held with us and the way the government manages our money. But no matter what he said it was a waste of money, they called that referendum and those questions were already settled. And now we're saying that because we pulled it back, the question is what's wrong and the question is what's the will of the citizens. I've signed, I want the referendum to be called the same as the 717 thousand other voters want, or you want us to do a signing on a referendum to call the referendum, maybe you want us to do that. Maybe that's what we need to do, to now collect signatures if you want to get a referendum on this issue that's already been collected, to sign, so we can do that, so you'll see that you have more than 717 thousand signatures.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58299	I'd like to beg, it concerns counsel to you and everyone else. The replica is something that you're replicating in the basic debate, you haven't done, and you're replicating what Arsen Bauk didn't say at all, so please give at least so much you have to stick to the subject and you have to replicate on what, and not I'm saying what I want, we have a Rulesman here, we're a serious institution. And now on behalf of the promoter, Vice President of the House and President of the Committee, Honorable Representative Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58300	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The esteemed representative Gordan Maras made one claim that deserves a particular review and evaluation. He stated that HDZ is the ruling majority of its proposal on the Constitution Committee, to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the Constitutional Court assess and determine whether or not the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been fulfilled. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in order to call a referendum on this matter, has been met or not, that this decision has been made by the parliamentary majority of the Croatian Democratic Community, that this is a blow to the very foundations of democracy, because after a sufficient number of signatures have been signed by a sufficient number of citizens, over 10% of the electoral body, have declared that there is no longer any decision on the Constitution to decide, discuss and propose that this is a matter of verification by the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court decides that, or that there are no assumptions for the opening of the referendum, and that such a decision by the Committee for the Constitution, the parliamentary majority in the Committee on the Constitution, that this is a blow to the very foundations of democracy, that it is ignoring and dissensuring 700 and some thousand citizens who have declared themselves for calling the referendums. He argued, therefore, that because such a proposal was made by the Committee on the Constitution that it was a blow to the foundations of democracy because there was no more debate here than that the Committee should have simply had to, in order not to play the foundations of democracy, that it should propose to the Croatian Parliament a referendum on this referendum issue. And then with such a foothold, with such a legal political stance cried out here a blow to the foundations of democracy. Comrade Maras I will tell you your exposure, your rhetoric is a blow to the foundations of logic, a blow to the foundations of the basic principles of constitutional law. If and top constitutional and legal experts in the Republic of Croatia as head of the Constitutional Law Department of the University of Zagreb Prof. Branko Smerdel, if the head of the Constitutional Law Department in Osijek Lautz, if the professor of the Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, Podonnjak, believes that there are no more grounds for calling a referendum, then will you declare them a blow to the foundations of democracy. Why this is not a blow to the foundations of democracy, but is exactly in line with the foundations of democracy. It is true that their valid signatures made a large number of citizens, a sufficient number of those who had called for a referendum and that their wish was to call a referendum, but their wish was to call a referendum because the government had then submitted to the Assembly procedure for amending the Labour Act, which is referred in two articles to collective agreements. And these voters who signed for a referendum statement, which was organised by the organisational committee, signed to prevent the government from preventing the Croatian Parliament from coming to those changes to the Labour Act that were proposed in the draft Labour Law, which the government sent to the Croatian Parliament at the end of May this year. After the government withdrew its proposal to amend the Labour Act, the will of voters who signed was fulfilled, has been achieved. They have just led their signatures, their many signatures, to the fact that the government has made a political decision and withdrawn the proposal to amend the Labour Act. So she was able to prevent, that will of the electoral body, she managed to prevent the election of amendments to the Labour Act as proposed by the government. Why no longer exists, why the committee has suggested and proposed that the Croatian Parliament decide to ask the Constitutional Court to determine that there are no longer any premises for calling a referendum, constitutional assumptions. Article 87, following a new numeral, paragraph 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says: "The referendum can be called on to amend the Constitution, amend the law..." and now pay special attention to "...a second issue from the Parliament's section". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says: "At the request of 10% of the electoral body a referendum will be called...", so it must be called, will be called "... in accordance with the law relating to paragraph 1 and paragraph 2. The Constitution." After the Government withdrew the proposal to amend the Labour Act, the referendum no longer has a logical, sound, constitutional and legal basis for its calling, because it does not stand the thesis and is incorrect the the the thesis that ipso facts itself are isolated, separated as the island stands that constitutional provision referred to in Article 87(3), which says, the referendum will be called if it requests 10%. But there is an addendum to that constitutional provision "and in accordance with the law and in accordance with the constitutional provisions of paragraphs 2 and 1.". For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The Constitution? Obviously, this isn't about a request to change the Constitution, it's not about a request to change the law. It could only be about another issue from the Parliament's section. The Parliament’s deloquy is precise and taxingly defined in Article 81. The Constitution regarding the law, the Croatian Parliament passed laws. It is not in the part of the Croatian Parliament that, by its decision, either on the basis of a referendum or on any other basis, it determines and determines that it remains in force and remains valid for some part or part of the law. That's the key question. A key and basic question. It is not in the CROMAC area that the question is whether or not some law will be maintained in force. Or to caricate in some way. The Croatian Parliament could not call a referendum, for example, to request a registered referendum on whether you are in order to maintain the Hunting Law, to maintain the Law on Roads, to uphold the legal rules or legal provisions of the Law on Forests. That's ridiculous. And that's what all these leading constitutional-legal experts have pointed to. And because of this, it is not any blow to democracy, but it is the majority position of the board exactly in line with the foundations of democracy and constitutional-legal order. And the Constitutional Court, if the Croatian Parliament accepts and makes such a decision that the Constitutional Court decides whether or not they are fulfilling the assumptions, will indeed be the body that will decide in accordance with the Constitution and with the Constitutional Law under the Constitutional Court. And fellow Maras on your obvious insinuations on the force of the parliamentary majority and the Constitutional Court are just a threat, it's just a blow to democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58301	Thank you. And now we have one series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58302	Thank you very much. I'm correcting Mr. Shakespeare's incorrect claim that my statement was a logical blow. Well, if that's true, I think it's not, that it's not true, which is why Mr. Shex's committee didn't propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision not to call a referendum, when it's already so obvious that there's no need to call it, that there's no reason to call it, and that in the end this is all we're doing and what we're talking about is going in that one direction, which is that the referendum isn't being called by you. Which is why you did not make such a decision on the Committee on the Constitution and then eventually shortened everyone's process of debate and decision and public debate and the public debate and the public union's obvious, etc., but you transferred responsibility from yourself to someone else. That's the only reason. You think the political damage will be less.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58303	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58304	Thank you. Article 204, it is not a correction to the incorrect quote of fellow Maras, it is a controversy with my opinion, it is a controversy with the thesis why the Committee on the Constitution or I did not propose anything else. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, it's not a correction to a factual claim. The correction of the factual claim and the violation of logic would have been what you did on your allegations that perhaps there would have been no Croatian state, if it hadn't been for a referendum in '91. A year. Yeah, yeah, you wouldn't, would you?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58305	Thank you. Please don't pollemize from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58306	I'll tell you about it later in the opening, I'll tell you about it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58307	It's no longer a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Honourable representative Zvonimir Mršić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58308	Well, Vice President Shakespeare was saying again what I was supposed to think and whether my will was done. So now I want to say that the citizen Mršić has signed a request for a referendum to be called in order for this referendum not to be called and my will has not been achieved in any way. I still want this referendum to be called, because I don't believe this is a withdrawal of the law from the parliamentary procedure guarantee that my will to ensure the prolonged functioning of collective agreements is achieved and I want that referendum to be implemented. And I would ask that in the future debate on my behalf you no longer speak of whether my will is fulfilled and what I thought and also 716 thousand other citizens of Croatia when they signed that request. You don't know what they were thinking because you didn't have the guts to sign that request.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58309	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Your Honor, this is not a correction to an incorrect quote, this is an invitation to your wish. ... There's no instrument like that in our Rules of Procedure. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, don't pollemize. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have a further correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Marin Jurjevic. But please, stick to correcting the incorrect quote. It's not personal to you. It's personal to everyone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58310	It is not the correct claim by Vice-President Seks that the government has withdrawn its request to amend the Law on the Work of the Will of the Citizens has been fulfilled. It is not an accurate claim that the referendum is unnecessary and that it is not an accurate claim by fellow Seksa, I quote it: "that the referendum no longer has a logical rational reason," because those who organised the referendum, those who fear that in six months, in seven months, everything will come back to the old state, that this will eliminate the possibility of respecting the really clearly expressed will of the citizens. And these are political, fellow Shex, reasons that you have instructed and less logical, and less legal, and at least they would still be in line with the struggle of the legislative authority not to submit to any other form of government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58311	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58312	Right, thank you very much for helping your colleague. I will quote that he taught me, with thanks, for what provision he needs, but you are not fellow Marine Jurevic, do you think that citizens would have signed a plea for this referendum if it hadn't been for the draft labour law? It was only when the draft labour law was submitted that it went to the plea. If it hadn't been for the bill, there wouldn't have been a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58313	Thank you very much. ... Thank you. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you. Let's move on. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58314	Therefore, it is incorrect that Vice-President Shex's claim that the withdrawal of the Labour Act disappears constitutionally and particularly soundly rational reasons for calling the referendum. In fact, the withdrawal of the Labour Act does not hide any guarantee that the government will not propose a new law, with the same provisions for which citizens ask the referendum not to be contained in the law. There's no guarantee. The government can send amendments to the law not only with these same provisions but with provisions that will be even more unfavourable for citizens. If a referendum is held, never again any government, not this one but any one of these can be included in the Labour Act...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58315	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58316	Without that change being decided in a new referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58317	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Seks, vice president of the House, knows that the Croatian Parliament has something to decide on, regardless of the amendment of the Law amending the Labour Act, because it is in the part of the Croatian Parliament to make laws, to change them, to determine their duration. So that's one correction. As for the second, and the same applies to being eliminated or unnecessary, there is no point in deciding what there is, and that is the draft labour law. Unfortunately, fellow Shex, there is a relationship established by collective agreements and unions and citizens want to make clear whether this relationship should be maintained or whether the government can change it unilaterally. In such a situation, it is truly wise to cover the will of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58319	Time! Thank you very much. So, just a little one, it's probably out of your mind. The government doesn't pass the law, the government proposes the law. ... Well, you know that the government is proposing law. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And on Shex, that's another thing. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And we have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect allegation of the esteemed vice president, Mr. Seks, who is the evaluation of fellow Maras around the Constitutional Court and everything he has said called a blow to democracy. I don't think that's an exact assumption, that it's a little harsh. Mr. Maras expressed his skepticism in the ability and accuracy of the Constitutional Court's decision and I join him in that part. I explain this so that constitutional judges are chosen by the will of the political parliamentary majority in the Croatian Parliament, and for some judges even the Administrative Court said they had no conditions to be constitutional judges and therefore we amended constitutional provisions on how to elect constitutional judges. So, I doubt it, but I respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58321	Honorable representative, someone to suspect and respect him with suspicion is to unacknowledged by him. Thank you very much. And now we're moving on with an individual debate. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar has indeed waited. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58322	I'm patient, Mr. Vice President, patient. First of all, I should refer to the debates of parts of HDZ deputies who mentioned that some political parties were collecting signatures for the referendum. It wasn't much, it was just one active. I am proud to admit that the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Party has actively assisted the unions in collecting citizens' signatures for this referendum since the first, not since the seventh day without television cameras and cameras and finally handed them 80006 signatures. And that's what we're proud of. And I believe 90% of those signatures are valid, and that's just over 70,000 then. What's a referendum? The form of direct democracy when citizens decide, change the decision of the political elite, impose something on it, prohibit or order it. It is written in the Croatian Constitution that the right of citizens to a referendum is entered. But it is an inexplicable right of citizens, especially the part in which it says that citizens have the right to cause a referendum. What is the second problem, that only after two months of constitutional changes in the Croatian Parliament is everything unclear. For some, the Law on Referendum is unclear, and I have even heard on the Committee on the Constitution and believe that some of the provisions of the Law on a referendum are anti-constitutional. For some, the Constitution is unclear, and some are vague, even against the constitutional article 95. The Constitutional Court Act, and two months ago, nothing was disputed, and everyone was both opposition and ruling except me supported constitutional changes. How now only two months after that there are so many dilemmas about such an important provision of the Constitution and the law of this state that we don't know what to do, but it's actually all clear. Not only this ruling political elite, but all the ruling political elites of Croatia so far, and obviously in the future they will do everything possible to avoid such referendums in Croatia. In order to prevent the referendum from being called for first by... So there's been a psychoanalysis of the signatories. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It didn't work out. Then the government also called on Marks Pulver, the father of geography, and in 40 days spent 327 billion graphological skills and found that there were suspicious signatures, because in order to compare 16000 signatures each with each needed exactly 327 billion artificial skills. Congratulations on your success! Then there was the problem with the alliance. They were supposed to sew books, not burn and glue. It didn't work out. Then it was unclear whether the book had to have gold in it or whether it had to be black and white. It didn't matter. So then it was said that there was no money in the budget, so that it cost a lot and it all went to hell in the end, all these arguments to get to it the fiscal methods and the withdrawal of the Labour Law. It is now claimed that the withdrawal of the Labour Act creates a situation in which there is no constitutional and legal basis for conducting the referendum and thus tries to introduce legal practice that and the adoption of laws within which citizens collect signatures will cancel the possibility of calling a referendum. So, you want to make a precedent that at the moment when citizens announce the collection of signatures and the collection of the signatures of the Parliament is passed by law and after that you say he, the law has already been passed, you have no right to a referendum. The amendment to constitutional changes was unanimously rejected, which would prohibit such behaviour by a representative body. And do citizens have the right to seek a referendum on the very announcement that something will change in Croatian legislation before it is transformed into a proposal to amend or supplement the law. Do citizens have the right to call a referendum on some existing law and ask the Parliament to amend it? Do citizens have the right to demand that some law be passed, or something regulated by law? In theory, yes, in Croatia not because there will always be excuses for stopping constitutional and legal bases, and when all this fails, then the Constitutional Court is eventually. So I ask why the Constitutional Court assesses the constitutionality of the issues at the end of the proceedings? Why not at first? Why wouldn't it be the right of the organiser of the referendum to request the Constitutional Court's opinion on the formulated issue before it goes to the signing assembly, and when it gets consent, only then comes the signing. This subsequent word of the Constitutional Court is the final and reserve mechanism to prevent any attempt to call a referendum. And one more thing. There are no deadlines in the Law on Referendum and the Constitution to be bound by the Assembly except the Law on Referendum that citizens have only 15 days to collect signatures and that the Constitutional Court must respond within 30 days to the request of the Parliament. And they're the only deadlines. Why have we given citizens only 15 days, and 15 years to decide, that these 20 to 40 days are only after the Constitutional Court's Justice, which means 15 years from now. Mr. Shakespeare, you know that well. Your colleague Markovinović eat a little more honey and fruit, yet you are not strong enough for replicas with me. So, citizens only have 15 days to sign, and we can deal with this for 15 months, 15 years, and everything will be constitutional. What will constitutional judges decide now? About the constitutionality of the matter or the meaning of the referendum? The proposal for a conclusion is such that it applies only to the constitutionality of the issues which I could even understand. However, of course they too listen to the political will of the ruling majority, and I fear that it will be another decision in a series of decisions of the Constitutional Court that will result in good monitoring of the will of the authorities. What will be gained by these maneuvers we perform to avoid a referendum? Whether or not those who have signed and are subject to collective agreements have any guarantee that such a provision will not be deleted in future changes to labour law. Is there any guarantee that the Government does not regulate the area in the winter break of the Parliament's meeting by a regulation which, unfortunately, it can. No, I don't. The only guarantee of respect for the will of the citizens is to call a referendum. Whatever that sounds strange to us now. However difficult this is for us, but it would be the first time that we allow the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to give their position, the court, the order, the word of any will, intention, announcement or attempt by the executive and parliamentary authorities to penetrate their rights. Is that so terrible, is that so dangerous for the development of democracy? Or it is so expensive that it would be spent and thrown away, if it would allow citizens to exercise democracy, not only in the elections and not only in that referendum when you are going to ask them to vote for Croatia's entry into the European Union. And I'm gonna end up like I promised yesterday. Besides, that's why HDZ's gonna lose the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58323	Desires are desires. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58324	Here's what I have to do to correct an esteemed colleague because he actually said that the Constitutional Court is probably the last spare item that HDZ counts on if everything goes down and stuff like that. Comrade Lesar, the Constitutional Court respects constitutional courts in all democratic countries respecting, except for the appearance of you who are incredibly disappointed that there will be no referendum, so you will not be... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58325	Thank you very much. But they'll deal with it later, and now we're moving on. Replica, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58326	You have well noticed with which zeal the government has resisted to control the proper conduct of the referendum, to look at every signature in which the line is entered. How much power and how much resources, if only with a small fraction were to be implemented and supervised by the laws implemented, that is, the elections in Croatia that took place in the past, especially parliamentary elections, then we would be an example country in the European Union, and what happened to us when the dead stood up to vote, it embarrassed us. We know that we have also received pucks in the European Union's report. Look at you when you said it, and you specifically looked back at the art. So in record time, it's been determined how many forgeries there are, and you see one single example, that's the case before our judicial authorities in the investigation, waiting 10 years to perform the art. So please, here are the government's representatives, to send such zealous people who could then bring this to an end. If you were with so much, but not with so much, it would be too much, but with thousands of thousands... be sensitive when workers' rights are violated, then a referendum like this wouldn't be necessary, but now that citizens have said their own, even if we want to agree on it we have nothing to agree on because, no one owns or unions or political parties anymore, citizens want a referendum and a referendum will be, so whatever you think about it. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58327	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58328	Yeah, 40 days of surveillance and signature control, we've had a lot of opportunities to hear in our statements, so those who spoke on behalf of the government about it, colleagues Ingrid, told them that they didn't know that so many signatories were out of place. Let's say for me at the stand in Čakovec there was a group of tourists from Rijeka, one bus, and they all signed there. Now that's weird for you. Yeah, I know it's weird for you, so I do. Yes, from Rijeka, yes. There were Croats who came to visit Međimurje and signed in Čakovec. But it's something else. Also signed by HDZ members. Now they're asking themselves, "Didn't they control us in those JMBG controls?" And secondly, members. They told me they were members of the HDZ, they told me then. No, they didn't have IDs, now they're hiding. And as for the ambiguity of how they could have listed the guilty JMBG. Well, you know that there are no more IDs, and that people have on paper, some out of memory tried to pull out and they made a mistake, but... ... My friend Tomljanović's replica doesn't do it like that any other time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And then give the injury, come on. So when it comes to the JMBG mistake, here in the Parliament last March you refused my amendment that in collecting signatures should be OIB, not JMBG. You've corrupted the public's ability to use personal documents to identify and record what is not required. It's still in the JMBG referendum law that no one remembers anymore, because it's not worth anything. And now you're using it against the citizens. Imagine the misrepresentation of JMBG.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58329	Thank you very much. Your time has run out, and your replica was quite the opposite of what the distinguished representative Antičević said. I ask you once again, you who advocate so much democracy, respect for the law and what it really must be, stick to our basic act, and that is the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. Hold on to that. And now, on behalf of the motionary vice president of the Parliament, the chairman of the board, the distinguished representative Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very, relatively brief. The first thing I would do with this thesis opened by my colleague Anticevic, in a way predicating why it is with such great attention are, is the government, or these two ministries, why they were investigating all these signatures, their credibility, and all the other circumstances related to signing these signatures, why it is so not a big care, a great care done in some past elections, I don't know if you're alluding to presidential or parliamentary ones. The truth is it was in one of the choices, but it was presidential and parliamentary before these last elections, that there were several cases of dead souls being enrolled and voting. ... That they voted dead souls, yes, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But you see, according to the report by all observers of the Human Rights Organisations, the OSCE etc., the European Council, and the last parliamentary elections and presidential elections have been held impeccably. Correct, fair, regular and impeccable with minimally some formal injuries. So, to compromise, to compare this momentary search for, in this referendum, in this referendum, citizens' statements on the credibility of the signature, there is no basis for concern because the state election committees and all the commissions in the previous parliamentary elections have done an excellent job. The fact that there were some examples is already politically and legally assessed and sanctioned. Secondly, what is far more serious than what has been asked here, which are, have you also asked fellow counterparts Antičević, colleague Stazić, colleague Leko, also asked by Mr Lesar, who has guaranteed that if a referendum is not called, which is a guarantee that the Government will not be in any more difficult form, not in the same form, not in the same content but in some even more difficult content during the time or until the Parliament is sitting or at any other time simply go to shake hands with the amendment of the Labour Act and simply play, cheat, skim the referendum? So what's the guarantee? Is there a legal guarantee, is there a political guarantee? Where a referendum under the Law on a referendum under Article 8 is implemented, the decision taken in the referendum shall be binding and, under paragraph 2, the competent authorities of the State shall, before the expiry of a period of one year from the date of the referendum, have no right to adopt a legal act or a decision which is substantially contrary to the decision taken in the referendum. If, therefore, the Croatian Parliament called a referendum on this referendum issue and if the citizens responded positively to this referendum issue, and then it would mean that the Croatian Parliament could not pass a law or legal act that was otherwise contained in the referendum decision. And also, according to paragraph 3 of the same law on the same issue, questions cannot be re-scheduled before the deadline of 6 months from the date of the referendum. Therefore, legally looking at the lack of guarantees, there is no legal guarantee that if this referendum is not called that the Government could not propose, not only the Government or any one who is an authorised legislator or legislator, the Croatian Parliament would not be able to pass the law contrary to the will expressed if, therefore, there is no guarantee of legal certainty. But which would be the government, which would be the ruling majority, which would be a political party or ruling coalition that dared and dared in such an obviously reckless way to play and ignore the will of the citizens and one legal acrobatic to prevent the signing of a referendum and, therefore, behind the back of the covert, insidiously go with the same law and thus obviously in a double-crossed way. It would be a political suicide to the government. It would be the current suicide of the government and the ruling coalition and the ruling party coalition. And no one with a reasonable mind would dare take such a step to commit such a political suicide that would not be suicide for just one moment but would be suicide forever and forever. No such suicide, no political party, no ruling party, neither this party nor the past will dare to take such a step. It is therefore a guarantee of the threat of total boycott, the total bankruptcy of such a political party and such a single government and such a coalition if such a thing dares. This has not been recorded in Croatia, and probably not in European or other history that any government would serve in such a playful way and style. And fellow Maras when I did, I promised to tell you something about your parable of that referendum that there was no referendum called on May 17th, '91. For years, the HDZ opposed the referendum so that there would be no Croatian state, so that it would be questionable, so I sort of figured it out. The referendum of 17 May was indeed a plebiscite for the Croatian state and was supported by 97 of the voters who came out, and 83 came out, I think 83% came out. So those who didn't go out and who were against it are somewhere around 20%. The referendum, the decision in the referendum of 19 May, was the basis here in the Croatian Parliament for a constitutional decision on Croatia's sovereignty and independence. The parliamentary majority voted in favour of the constitutional decision on Croatia's sovereignty and independence, and opposed that decision on the sovereignty and independence of Croatia's parliamentary majority after I... You have colleagues Ingrid's short memory, I'll teach you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I, on behalf of the Constitutional Commission of the Parliament here, removed the amendment submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, which was the 13th amendment to the proposal for a constitutional decision. The amendment was put forward by the Republic of Croatia initiating the procedure for re-unifying the Yugoslav Republic's alliance. When the amendment was accepted, SDP representatives did not vote in favour of the Constitutional Decision, sovereignty and independence. Therefore, if it had been for a colleague, Maras, it was at the will of the SDP, then it was doubtful that the political decision had prevailed to go immediately after the disunity to join again in Yugoslavia, what would be the question if it were. So much for this referendum, and I can see in advance that the tablets of those who simply think, have been written down, it is hard to say, in all the books and writings, it has been written that it has been discussed and decided and voted on and voted on on 25 June 1991. You sitting here on this side, I assume no one was there in that assembly, none of you, and in '91. None of you. I was.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58331	Thank you very much. Now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, he's a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58332	I am correcting Mr. Shex's allegations when he spoke of the decision taken in the referendum being valid for 12 months, quoting the provision of Article 8(2). The referendum law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. mandatory referendums. Therefore, to quote this provision of Article 8 in a referendum caused by citizens is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58333	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58334	You say colleague Shakespeare, quite incorrectly, that there is no guarantee that if the government didn't come to a referendum with stronger measures of impact on workers, so you admit that it was going hard, but now that's a minor problem here, it's simply not true. Not that she would do so, but she has guarantees, because the law on referendums and the Constitution, it is quite clear from the provision of Article 86 and the Law on referendums, that she has the advantage, in the full sense of the Constitution and the Law on referendums, stems from all the provisions, of which, when the Croatian Parliament is signed, when the signatures are signed, we cannot discuss here, but it is an imperative norm that exceeds the ability of our agreement. That's one thing. You speak for yourself and you give a political assessment, if we cheat on people, that would be our political suicide. So you see political suicide, it's the only thing left to try, it's made countless, but if you stop this, it'll be your political suicide, but it's done, without being tried. So a little dignity and call a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58335	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58336	Unfortunately, it is not true that in Croatia categories are morally... nature, and especially not in Croatia politics any guarantee that the will of the people will not be played, and that people have experienced very well on their skin, and you as a lawyer, I am really surprised that you are calling on moral ethical categories as a hard stand, guarantees that someone in the future will not play the will of the people unless they are legally given legal, legally firm guarantees that they will not be able to betray themselves and that they will not depend on the flexibility of understanding, morals and ethics in Croatia politics, which we are quite masters, acrobats and equilibries.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58337	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Honorary Representative Gordan Maras. Oh, please stop throwing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58338	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect claim by my colleague Seks that I said that there would be no Croatian state at all, that HDZ acted at the time as it behaves today, I said that it would not be at that time of the Croatian state, but normally that they would not be able to prevent the Croatian people's will as you will not be able to prevent in this case to achieve what they want. Maybe the will and desire isn't as big as it was in 91st, but it's still big enough that HDZ can't stop it. But to personify the state with what suits you was seen in the 1990s when you made the biggest robbery in Croatia, privatisation during the war.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58339	Please. Let's stick to the subject. I'll give you a yellow card, please calm down. Let's move on. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct the quote of the esteemed Vice-President of the SDP Assembly, who in his speech linked Mr Maras' statement on the 91st referendum and the SDP's conduct at the Assembly. The amendment, which was then submitted by the SDP Representatives Club, was also in line with the referendum issue and also respected in part the citizens' will in the referendum. June 25, 1991 is one of the most famous days in Croatia history and during the coalition government this date was introduced and as a state holiday which some members of your party, during the time your party was popular... while they were in a position of least ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58341	Thank you. And finally, the correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58342	It is incorrect that Vice President Seks would not have been the Croatian state to implement the SDP policy in those ancient years when the Croatian state was created. The fact that today in this hall on the SDP side, no one sitting in the Assembly at the time except Mr. Seks does not give you any right to falsify history and so ugly and falsely accuse an entire Croatian political party. Mr. Shakespeare is true that not only are HDZ Croats and people or citizens who love this country. And robbed workers are Croats and we SDPs are Croats and we believe just as you do, and we do what we think is best for strengthening, survival not only of the Croatian state and statehood, but of the well-being, security and security of all its citizens, and not only of you privileged.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58343	Thank you very much. You know how to speak today in 2000 and '91. It's not the same conditions here, it's not the same people, it's not the same thinking, and so nobody's accusing you and nobody's telling you anything bad. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58344	If my esteemed colleague, Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic, had listened very carefully, then she would have heard that I did not accuse the SDP of being against the creation of the Croatian state. If you'd just listened a little bit to your colleagues and hadn't been too excited and too emotional in a high degree of emotional tension then you'd have heard that I said it was June 25, '91. that SDP representatives had not voted in favour of the constitutional decision on the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia, because they had submitted an amendment that I rejected on behalf of the Constitutional Commission. And when the amendment was rejected, the amendment, which reads "the Republic of Croatia is initiating the process of joining the new Union of the Yugoslav Republics". When that amendment was rejected, then you did not and your predecessors fellow MPs did not vote I will not now say in which way and how, because you did not vote because it is a mere finding. So I didn't charge the SDP back in '91. the year that he was against the Croatian state. So, careful fellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58345	Thank you very much. We have a second violation of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58346	Dear Mr Vice-President, Article 214 has been injured, unlike the esteemed Vice-President of the Parliament, who did not state which article was injured. I'm asking you to at the moment when you're using a breach of the Rules of Procedure to talk about another topic, to stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58347	I'll stop now, because this remark of yours ends the morning session. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. The first is the honourable representative Arsen Bauk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58348	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with the session and agenda item we have begun and it is now up to Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58349	Thank you, Mr. President. So, colleagues and colleagues, the situation is relatively simple, it doesn't take much philosophy to describe what's been going on in the last few months around the Labour and Referendum Act, which is that the government overestimated itself and underestimated the unions. So, several times, Mrs. Solic. For the first time, she underestimated as negotiators when negotiating the Labour Act, so she referred the unnecessarily proposed bill that abolishes some rights after 6 months of the Labour Act. Then the second time she underestimated when the unions began to collect signatures, because let's remind that was under discussion about changes to the Constitution and were just talking about the number of signatures needed and this was the first time that someone had managed to collect 10% of the necessary signatures. And there I would not only say that the government underestimated the unions but also underestimated the dissatisfaction of citizens with the way it leads the country, because one part of the citizens must have signed this proposal because he thought it was the only thing they could do to show the government that it was on the wrong path in general and in this case the Labour Act. The third time they underestimated not only the unions but also the citizens when they set out with arguments of technical nature that we have already heard of, therefore, from manuscripts, gold or white alliances, etc., to demean the work done in the collection of signatures. I want to say clearly in my opinion, even with these shortcomings, a list of citizens who have therefore signed a referendum proposal, more specifically than a list of voters who hold all elections in the Republic of Croatia. And the fourth time is underestimated now when a legal acrobatic and acrolomic issue unequivocally governed by the Constitution and the laws is trying to depose the Constitutional Court. There is a declarative will of the HDZ to carry out a referendum and a real will to avoid a referendum. So since this could not have been done by contesting the signature even though it was tried by this fact that some dared to sign outside the place of residence, it was the biggest remark, the others were still not so much to challenge it, which is the Committee on the Constitution in this first conclusion that he made and noticed, then it is now trying to challenge the meaning of the referendum issue itself when this was already withdrawn. Now, the continuity of the government's withdrawal of the proposal is not just in the Labour Act, there have been several cases where the government has withdrawn its proposals due to dissatisfaction. We had the last case yesterday, and last we had when we were bringing a budget rebalance where sharp cuts were announced, of which there was nothing at the end. Therefore, it is one continuity of the government's abandonment of its programme and, though, since the government's programme is implemented under a coalition agreement whose guardian Damir Polancec, that government could end up as Damir Polancec, I mean being expelled, I don't mean these others. Therefore, as the legal language puts it, the concerted actions carried out in relation to the referendum are going to avoid this referendum. So, to whom it would be more appropriate just to conduct a referendum to the government or to the opposition in a political sense, I think it would be more appropriate for the government, because citizens would find their anger at the bad government policy... in this referendum, and then in the elections they would be a little lighter, this is how all their anger over bad politics will be sought in the elections. As for the fact that the Government, or that the Committee on the Constitution, has transferred this issue to the Constitutional Court and that fellow Maras and some other colleagues, have, therefore, questioned the political neutrality of some judges, which I think is not a sin here to say the judges were elected by the parliamentary majority, in the manner prescribed by the Constitution and by the law as previously prescribed, we have now changed it and we have changed it precisely because we have more trust, because I do not think it is a sin to say so. Because if we had confidence in those people that most of us chose and we would have voted for them, we didn't, therefore they were elected with 70, 80 votes, and that was a clear political decision by both the ruling and the opposition, those people whose political neutrality I have the right to doubt that anyone can forbid it. He's got 110 votes, that's fine. As for the second case, the effort that was made in the government to control these signatures, he is commendable, it has been used by signing organizers and future signing organizers to see what needs to be seen. Of course, so many signatures can get to peas. In addition, when such errors occur in the elections followed by 18 thousand paid people of the election boards, commissions, etc., then at this job which is still 717 correct and somewhere around 92 thousand incorrectly collected signatures should be recognised by the organisers that they have done a large technical demanding job and I think that this time they should give recognition to the organisers of the signing on what they have done and, of course, to the citizens who have expressed their democratic will, therefore, to hold a referendum on this issue. Unfortunately, such efforts have not yet been made to settle the voter list. Let us remind ourselves in February of this year we had the first reading of the Law on residence and residence of citizens, many of which were from different sides, important and also political, some of the more technical nature, however, it was obviously a rather sensitive topic when even 7 months after the first reading, even the business deadline for the law to go to second reading, the government did not deliver the final proposal of the law. Therefore, Croatia still does not have a correct, accurate and acceptable accuracy to express a list of voters. This has a crucial meaning in future parliamentary elections, as the difference will be so great that these mistakes will not be important, but in future local elections they will always have if this is not settled especially in the middle of the border, it will have a lot of consequences. Therefore, it would be good to keep the residence law established. So, in the last year, the government has given up almost everything it stood for, only it hasn't given up power, so if there isn't a referendum now there's going to be an even bigger referendum in the election, and you do what you think is best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58350	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's my colleague, Bauk, in his debate, kept saying that the government and HDZ were disrespecting the unions. I deny you that and that's absolutely not true. But my dear colleague, I must remind you in this, that you are and that is exactly how you respected the unions when you passed the Labour Act. And let me remind you that your Minister Davorko Vidovic, who was then Minister of Labour and Social Care, made a statement to the Vecernji list, was 1.6.2001. He says, "We will pass the Labour Act and we are not afraid that the unions will organise a general strike, and I doubt they can organise it." Here, that's the fact that I remind you that you respected your social partners. Unions. Deputy Prime Minister Slavko Linic also says in 2001: "The government will insist on changes to the ZOR regardless of what the union heads think." That was on the morning list. "The government doesn't offer social assistance, we offer seas and fish, and workers need to know what it's like to hunt, that's the whole philosophy." I think you're philosophizing today, and you won't remember what your ministers and prime ministers are and how much they've protected workers' rights in passing the Labour Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58352	Thank you. We went through it a little bit together and came out of the box. Correction, but we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I expect it to come out now. You're going to let us do a little bit of business with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58353	Mr. President. Yesterday, I reported a violation of Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, and you said that what she said yesterday didn't drop much of the general rules. It doesn't go away today from the general rules, it's falling away from the Businessman, so I'm going to answer the same in accordance with the general rules. So, Mrs. Solic's article 209 was changed and I didn't say that the government didn't respect the unions, but that she underestimated them a little and overrated herself. So, I wasn't even talking about respect. And as for the events of 2002 and 2003, so that government had its own agenda, sent the laws to the Parliament not afraid to pass them, it was the government that ruled, and this government as the wind blew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58354	And you've come out of the Rules of Procedure's breach, and that's one 20 times so far, Mr. Bauk. You have already become an example of how incorrectly you can call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So let's let the debate run its course properly, don't go in Mrs. Marinovic. Do not enter, you did not get the word, which is also prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Let's calm down and we'll get there eventually. And we still have the correction Mr. Agent Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58355	Mr. President. counterpart Bauk said the government gave up almost everything it stood for. However, my colleague Bauk is not true, my colleague Bauk is such a young man and I love him so much, but so much hatred comes out of him that I'm worried about his health and you don't look like a boogeyman at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58356	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58357	Mr. President, my colleague Kulusic correctly applied Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure because I really incorrectly said Article 214. So first of all, I am not so young from my age that the current President of the Constitutional Court became a constitutional judge, that is the first. Second. There's no hate coming out of my speeches. I'm glad you like me very much, but I don't know where you see hate, but I'll take that as a criticism, and in that sense I'll reconsider that part a little bit, and if you notice the correction of us that you will then also praise the next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58358	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58359	In Article 214, so characterising my appearance and my youth and hatred, I think it could be put under disdain if you, Mr. President, evaluate it that way. I'm just warning you we could think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58360	He didn't disrespect you, but he complimented you as I heard it. And don't lift again. Are you challenging me to warn you of incorrectly lifting a plate? If that's what you want, and that's what you'll want, and you'll welcome it on your own chance. Thank you very much. We have another correction, Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58361	Thank you very much. A colleague named Bauk said that this government gave up everything she stood for. Since my colleague Bauk is so old that he can't remember how the previous governments worked, so I'll remind him that this government is the real government that publicly announced the economic development programme of Croatia which has been commended by all... entities in this country, so you want from the governor, the president of the state, and I think even from your party came commendation. So if that were the case, then you wouldn't be publishing that program that she's running, as far as you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58362	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58363	Thank you very much. All this equilibrist influenced by the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure serves only once, which is to conceal the real relationship between the ruling, the government, the parliamentary majority, in short the HDZ and those to which it is ruled, means peoples or citizens. The first characteristic of the nature of this relationship is fear, the government's fear of its own citizens, fear of the people. It is clear that this request for a referendum in the minds of citizens is not just about the Labour Act, it is clear that it concerns relations with the government, the overall assessment of the government. It is recognised by the Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr Shakespeare, who now pronounces the following, quotes: "It was not the signatures for keeping the rules in force in the Labour Act but for that hidden referendum. It's actually a statement on a referendum on government. In this way, a number of citizens were drugged to seek a statement on the Government, or against the Government, under the cover of a referendum on the Labour Law." And Mr. Shakespeare is absolutely right, so the citizens are in such a large number and went out to sign a referendum request because they actually showed their relationship to the government, in fact with their numbers, they told us enough, we're sick of you, get out of power, stop pushing us. That fear is completely understandable to me, the fear of ruling over my own people is completely understandable to me. I even think he's justified because after seven years of this kind of government, it's perfectly understandable, perfectly normal to fear the expression of the will of the citizens. It's a perfectly natural and logical continuation of that relationship. Fear certainly causes a reaction. That reaction is mostly aggression. Aggression has several visions, one of the forms of aggression is a threat. The publication of the names of those who signed the referendum on the government's website is an indirect threat, we know who you are, we know your names and names, be careful. She's got another message, we're the government, we can break the Personal Data Protection Act, and we're gonna break it, and we don't care if we break it, and no one from the government is gonna answer for breaking it because we can do whatever we want. The second characteristic of this relationship between the ruling and those whose government is the demeaning of citizens. It is evident in the fact that the prime minister, and today a colleague of Salapic and many others, are doing so. The government has provided some money in the budget rebalancing for the referendum, so the government is in favour of the referendum, and the opposition that voted against the amending budget is against the referendum. So do you really think people are that stupid? Because to insult, to demean citizens so much that they're going to get this way, listen, it's unchristian, it's just unchristian. So, you think these citizens are idiots who will believe you because you're in budget rebalancing... What you have provided in the budget rebalancing is some money that, if there is no referendum, you do not have to spend, that is to say, you support the referendum, and those who did not want to vote for any other reason against the referendum. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So, this is how to diminish the mental abilities of citizens, it's outrageous. Another form of demeaning is evident in a statement by the Minister of Popijac and today fellow citizens who say they did not know what they were signing. So what do you think citizens are stupid so they don't know what they're signing? Citizens knew exactly who signed because of the amendments to the Labour Act, but also those who signed because they asked this government to leave because they did not agree with its policy knew what they were signing. And they signed exactly what they wanted, and they want a referendum on the Labour Act, and they want, as well as they want, a lucidly noticed fellow Shakespeare, to make that referendum a statement about the government itself. The Vice-President of the Parliament fully understood the will of citizens unlike Kunst, Salapic and others. The third characteristic of the relationship between the ruling and those you rule is your mistrust. You see, in a short time and very high-quality and very pedantic government could have checked everything. Of course, the government can do that when it's trying not to satisfy the will of the citizens, when that's her goal. Then he can check everything. He can check both the data and do a graphological analysis and run a psychological analysis of those who signed and found everyone dead and find out where he signed it. The government can do all that whenever they want. And when did she want to? She wanted now that she tried to reduce the number of valid signatures and not respect the will of the people. Then when it comes to the election, when GONG discovers that the dead voted for you, then it's none of the government's business. Then it's none of the government's business or any kind of investigation. When voting lists are to be settled, then the government is powerless, there is a thousand and one excuse why it does not fix it, but when it is necessary to check out what the government is looking for and the government does not fit to oppose the will of the citizens and then it can do anything quality and fast. Your attitude towards the citizens is also evident in your contempt for them. Citizens demand referendums. This is the will of the citizens to be respected. In order not to respect it, you transfer the ball of responsibility to the Constitutional Court, arguing that it is absolutely illogical that the reasons for the referendum have ceased because the government has withdrawn the law. How she pulled it so she could bring it back, so the citizens of this government know it. Well, citizens know what this government has been doing to them all these seven years. That's why they don't trust her, so withdrawing a legal proposal for citizens isn't enough. It might be enough to have more confidence in you, but if they trusted you, then 717000 of them wouldn't sign this. Well, they sign such a large number because they don't believe you, but they don't believe you. So they don't believe you, either, that even the withdrawal of this law would cancel their request for a referendum. We're in a very simple situation. In this House in which these citizens have chosen us to respect the will of citizens or to seek some kind of school apology, some legal equilibrist that you do not respect the will of citizens. We don't have any dilemmas about that. We don't have a single dot for a second. If more than 10% of the citizens have requested a referendum, this Parliament, chosen by these same citizens, must carry out that will. Those who do not want to do so are obviously government and HDZ, the parliamentary majority are only telling those citizens one thing. It's none of our business, my dear citizens, but absolutely nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58364	We have the first answer for Mrs Ingrid Antičević Marinović's replica. You weren't, but you were the first, and then Mr. Kunst answered for a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58365	My friend Stazic, it's basic that HDZ was scared to panic. And who? Citizens. The same ones he's been scaring and politically blackmailing for years. But what was he most afraid of? Not individual citizens, but the greatest dangers of all and the perilous for them that citizens have shown solidarity. That's one solution that, by coming to the HDZ, was expelled as unmodern, as a reverse word. She's coming back in her recovery now. She knocks on the door and nothing can stop her. The citizens have joined together and said enough, that's enough! A worker joined, a peasant joined, a student joined, an intellectual. For this referendum, those who are retired for those who have no salary, for those who work have not been paid overtime, for those who have been denied their basic rights. People voted because they were hungry. And it's good, you've noticed and exposed the whole thing. Well, it's no secret. The motives aren't important here for the signature itself, but it was even psychological, because from different motives one can respect such a signature. Well, then it's even worse and more devastating for you to put any question against the government people tell you that's enough and that's what you're afraid of and that's what your good colleague Stazic saw. Because when they vote for HDZ, when the dead can vote, but when they vote against HDZ, it is questionable, then there are hundreds of thousands of signatures. People tell you to get off their backs like you don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58366	Thank you very much. And don't be so... hard on Mr. Stazic in your replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope you'll be lighter. Answer me, Mr. Track. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58367	My colleagues, Ingrid, they're not just afraid of citizens. They're afraid and replicated, so now they're going to correct the allegations. First up, buddy Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58368	Replica Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go. I also suggest less heat.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58369	Dear Stazic, you mentioned budget rebalances and constant attacks against the SDP that since we voted against budget rebalancing that we are not in favour of a referendum because then we did not provide those in the opposition, who are criticising the government for the policy that led to such a rebalancing, so we did not provide the means to implement the referendum. It is an inverted naradic logic or anti logic, and if so, we are not responsible for the state that today is in which this authority has brought it, rather than for it is primarily HDZ's fault. And if that logic were accepted, it would mean a monetary censorship for the functioning of democracy. This democracy applies to a certain amount, and through no money, there is no democracy. So, in fact, it goes from logical to political, you mentioned equilibristics. And that's a mild word in a political indeed circus. Please respect the fact that more than 10% of the people in Croatia have requested a referendum and let this Parliament make it possible for citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58370	Mr. Stazic, you have no replica on this fierce one? Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58371	Your Honor, all Mr. Stazic has said is incorrect and false. I think he's outgrown Minhauzen in his fraud and lies. But I'll just count some inaccuracies. First of all, I didn't say the citizens didn't know what they were signing. I believe Mr. Stazic doesn't know, but he admitted that they cheated on the unions and used it to sign a social initiative like that. And since it's so much moaning over the citizens of fellow Stazic, it's strange that it's such a short mind that you didn't remember where these citizens are flying this year while you were flying at their 7 kuna expense in Vangica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58372	... An incorrect quote, that summering and that, that wasn't at all. [[Specially enabled.]] But since we're too broad in that correction of incorrect allegations, we're not looking at all these regulations, then we move on. Mrs. Neda Klaric also wanted to correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's Mr. Stazic says both the government and the parliamentary majority and the Croatian democratic community are afraid of their own people. Mr. Stazic, that's incorrect. No fear. It is precisely the responsibility of this government, the parliamentary majority and the Croatian Democratic Community, and do not have a single valid one, you have no valid reason to have understanding of such fear, but please find some valid reason to understand such responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58374	Thank you. We have another correction, Mr. Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just for a little while. Mr. Stazic incorrectly said that in our discussions we thought our citizens were stupid. Mr. Stazic, our citizens are very smart, we respect them very much because they have not given you full authority for 17 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58376	We continue with this very stimulating and interesting debate. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58377	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let's get back to the very simple thing. What are we discussing here today? Let's just say, there's been a lot of talk here about some persuasive things, and I can really be resilient, but those that are resilient don't matter at all, for the solution to this very simple thing. The signatures were whether or not they wanted to be here, and no one can deny it. There have been attempts, but I'll talk about it later. So the signatures are there. The question is also there. Signing response confirmed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. on the draft laws to amend the Constitution or on another issue from the Croatian Parliament's section, so when these conditions are met, the Parliament will call a referendum. It's not going to be negotiated by HDZ with social partners, with SDP, with coalition partners, here we just need to take this into consideration. Thus, here today is expected to set a date for the referendum. The referendum question is familiar, and why we're wasting electricity here now, when we go to the toilet water, all the energy, when the thing is this simple. That's where we get to how things started and why it doesn't suit you. Why they need different constitutional retorts now to turn out to be different interpretations of the Constitution than it is clearly written, and it requires no particular interpretation, is what fellow Stazic was talking about. Fear. The rulings recognized that such a huge number of people, beware of this number of elections are almost won, feared which people were mass-plebiscititarianly going out, because they were sick of being hungry, because they were tired of being unemployed, if they were working not to be paid, so all that they had promised and what was the duty of every government in this or that form to ensure a better life for the citizens. And he's not better than he is, but he's at a level of endurance. People have been very tolerant of the ruling and the favors and the patient, but it all comes to an end. But the rulings snuck in and thought the moment would never come. And that's why really the referendum is fundamentally, the formal thing is crystal clear, but the essential thing is that people have had enough of this power, that they've failed their expectations, they've made all those promises, they've cheated on them countless times. You see what Minister Popijac said, the citizens don't understand, they're literally his words, so when the citizens are opposed to it, it's already installed, I'd say entrenched and bred haughtiness. The prime minister was pretty disoriented in all of this, and she simply loses the sense of the entire government with reality. This argument is really below the level of logic. To interpret ourselves, we are in favour of a referendum, but here's the Constitution doesn't allow us because our readiness is that we have provided the funds. Well, it is your duty to be prepared even always for extraordinary elections, or you will ask the Constitutional Court when exactly the new year came in Croatia, whether it really was 1.1.2010, so that regular elections may be extended if God doesn't get to the regular ones, and not to the premature ones that are needed for the health of the nation and for the salvation, that we get out of this trouble as soon as possible and out of the gap that you people and citizens crash into. So, look now and interpret the Constitution in a way that there is no bill, so then we have nothing to discuss. Let's just say that that's how this absurd thing would be, that you can only run a referendum if you insist on the bill. That means by the time the signatures were collected, the law could already be passed. One that is contrary to the public's claim on, but on the referendum issue and in the collection of signatures. Either he could back out the same way, and then keep some kind of reserve, promise the citizens and bring the law back like this, or worse than Mr. Shakespeare said. So you see it doesn't make any sense, and it doesn't need any legal skills, because the Constitution doesn't allow it, I appreciate every effort, but this is simply behind this interpretation, and there's no need for such abuse of constitutional provisions, which is just a naked force behind it. Therefore, such attributes of... , the skills have no place here, although I do not slow them down, but here there is no, I cannot get any expression in my own reach, because the Constitution is so clear. [[You don't understand.]] So, when the conditions are met, the Parliament will call a referendum. These signatures are no longer owned or organised by these or those political parties, structures. Because citizens, citizens once wondered and these signatures, these people can no longer be manipulated. Even if it were a good will and if everyone here agreed, and even with the unions, it's not possible because citizens once asked their own questions. So it's also an imperative cognitive norm that we need to respect. Now, then the stream and the asylum from your trouble to seek in the Constitutional Court is not knightly. So I know you're in trouble, but it's your own fault. They're citizens because of that in even greater trouble. And now ask the Constitutional Court to react, and there is no basis for that because of Article 97. The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court which speaks precisely of jurisdiction and the control of the Constitutional Court as regards the regularity of the referendum concerns only those situations where the referendum issue endangers the human rights of an individual or a group. And this referendum issue increases, i.e. they want to retain rights. The protection of rights or you believe that workers do not have the right to protection. We saw that by making a number of your bill to protect them you didn't. Let me just mention the amendment to the Penal Code when we asked for non-payment of wages to be a felony. HDZ did not vote for it in the opposition times. We've changed the Penal Code five times, but that's never gonna happen. Therefore, intervention of the Constitutional Court may occur when such a referendum issue of one's right is threatened, reduced or denied. Also this logic that we also heard today from the HDZ Club that it would be absurd if the law had decided something to ask for a referendum on it. So what do referendums exist all over the world about? About some, about all the issues that the law has resolved or which the law has not solved. Which he solved in this way, and he needs to solve them differently. So that our constitution speaks perfectly of it. It also speaks of the Law on Referendum. So, all the questions from the Parliament's section. On those issues that have already been settled, on those issues that need to be improved or otherwise resolved, or on those issues that have not been resolved at all. If that were the case with your interpretation, then there could never be a referendum in the beginning. But you didn't even question all these questions at first because in your confidence you couldn't even understand that this could happen in Croatia. You knew how apathetic people were, how traumatized they were, you counted on what force they could organize to respond. And you see sometimes everything that individual forces are so weak, but the unions are strong and they'll say unless there's a referendum on what he was saying and a colleague of Shakespeare is going to be your political suicide, but I'm saying again this time they won't stay trying.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58378	We have seven corrections and one replica. First the corrections. Mr. Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58379	Well, colleague Anticevic said that, and it's incorrect, that citizens were going out and voting because they're hungry, thirsty, and now she's picking up all her compassion for the citizens. I find that incorrect. The citizens came out well because they were being deceived by the SDP, so they told them you'd lose your salary, you'd be left without a existence to live, invited citizens and misread the question of a referendum that they certainly don't know how to explain today. And then they tampered with their signatures, and then they set up the dead in their signatures, and then they set them up with those who had no business ability, and they basically put the unions in an awkward situation. That's why I'm warning the union leaders that even after today's meeting with the SDP president, they'll be careful because they'll be fooled again. Don't trust Danajac when he's carrying your gifts. And that should be a lesson to them because they've already had a chance to see how the government works with the SDP at the head.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58380	Thank you. Mr. Ante Kulusic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58381	Mr. President Anticevic said here it is all clear that you should go to the referendum on the question raised. Which is not true. It is here, however, given the question that the government has withdrawn the law clearly that there is no need to go to the referendum because the objective is fulfilled, and everything else is SDP playing in vain, and it is known that the past workers during the SDP authorities from 2000 to 2003 have not forgotten it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58382	Correction, Mrs. Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58383	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, Marinovic, misquoted the Constitution, so she said that the Constitution says about the issues referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article, the Croatian Parliament will call a referendum, but did not fully quote which says in accordance with the law if it asks for 10% of the total number of voters. And then the government and the Justice Committee, who asked to determine whether everything was legal and implemented, said, among other things, that, with a referendum question, that the referendum would be carried out clearly and clearly not clear because counterpart Anticevic said this morning that it was a referendum on the government, counterpart Beus said it was a referendum on the government in general and on the real situation of the workers in the Republic of Croatia. And the referendum question was whether you were in favour of retaining certain norms to whom a colleague would have been in trouble or were in trouble, and the workers were in trouble in 2000 when they were left without their rights and in 2001 when almost everything that was given was to be fired at the IMF's order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58384	Thank you. Mrs. Neda Klaric, also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58385	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam representative incorrectly claims that our prime minister is disoriented and incorrectly says that we are in trouble. It would be nice, ma'am, to admit that our prime minister has witnessed her sensitivity countless times to all generations, starting with newborns to third-aged people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58386	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58387	I thank Mr. President, I join these corrections that my colleagues told me before me, they stuck two of the same ears to me and one of them said it by having a sense of fear and ruling failed the people. It's absolutely incorrect, this is about responsibility for the people to get paid, pensions, etc. But I must personally admit that I feel a little fear, you may certainly start yelling at me after this correction, but I will risk it, so I will remind you that you have failed the people, you have been the minister of justice and in your time have reduced the various obligations that you have had to carry out and you have not executed the Constitutional Court's decision to repay the debt to the pensioners, we have done so and all others so ask yourself who has failed the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58388	Mrs Ivanka Roksandić's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58389	Thank you, Mr. President, my colleague Marinovic said, "The essence of this referendum is that the citizens are tired and they are tired of this authority." Inaccurate colleague Marinović, they have been tired these days of your great desire to come to power at all costs, even through a referendum question that reads whether you are in favour of keeping the applicable legal provisions on extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and cancellation of collective agreements. I don't know after this referendum question the citizens answered. But I have to tell you that those who collected the signatures didn't even know why they were collecting signatures. So when you asked some kids in the markets why they were collecting signatures, they said because they wanted to cancel the children's allowance and the Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58390	Thank you, Mr. Damir Sesvečan's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58391	Therefore, it is incorrect that counterpart Anticevic has no basis for the Court to react. So I'm going to quote Article 95(1). Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which says. At the request of the Croatian Parliament, the Constitutional Court shall, where 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia requests a referendum to determine whether the contents of the referendum issue are in accordance with the Constitution and whether the assumptions set out in Article 86(1) to (3) have been met. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for its calling. On the contrary, the Croatian Parliament has the right to address the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court has the right and the duty to decide on the issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58392	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58393	My colleague Ingrid with this discussion of yours has one problem, the problem is not small. Namely, this discussion of yours when I listen to these powerful corrections goes into deaf ears. You explain to people, in your debate, who is sovereign in this country, you explain to them that the government in this country comes from the people and belongs to the people, and that the last one is the people, and that what the people are asking for and why he has collected a sufficient number of signatures by legal procedure. And they, instead of respecting that simple argument, responds that the citizens went to the 717 thousand referendum because they were thrilled with this government, and because of the great enthusiasm this government has been doing to them for seven years, they went so massively to the referendum, or to the signing of requests, to collect signatures, to call a referendum, and that was their only motive. Now, that's the problem with this debate of yours, we don't think she's well understood, I don't think they've heard you or understood you well, it can be two reasons why they don't want to understand you, or simply such a simple thing as who is the ruler of this country, that the ruler of the people, they can't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58394	Well, you're right, if you told them or didn't say it was almost the same, but here our duty as an opposition because that's why the citizens chose us to speak for the sake of the citizens, but I would also take advantage of this opportunity there are, they're our colleagues to stop having a little bit before the end now, their powers and opportunities to show that power they've shown to citizens, to have little dignity, to stop treating citizens as ignorant circus audiences, to gain strength, to acknowledge their defeat and to call elections if you don't want this referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58395	And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Vice President of the House, the chairman of the Committee of Representatives Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58396	STazic's colleagues aren't here for a moment, but I'll make time to refer to it, he was very inspired by the anatomy of the human destruction of Eric From, so he tried to create a psychomortal that would put aggression on the government and ruling because the government is afraid of the people of it, and fear creates aggression. Aggression as a consequence of aggression is the withdrawal of the law, the avoidance of the referendum. Only there has he made one change of roles, he is otherwise a skilled manipulator, manipulation is the basic rule of manipulation when you can't change the facts change perception of facts. He's got fear, you're afraid of fear, you're afraid of a referendum more than the devil of incense, and you're all saying you need to call a referendum. But let's get back to one other thing, get back to one first source, first of all, on 28 May of this year, the government submitted a proposal to amend the Labour Act. People in Croatia today have a small percentage of what the content of this proposal for a law that has 6 articles was. Only 3 articles, small 3 articles, refer to the following: "Article 262 is amended and reads as follows: The parties to the collective agreement may agree to the extended application of the legal rules of the collective agreement so that, after the expiry of the period on which the collective agreement is concluded and the legal rules governing all the set are contained therein, the provisions apply until the conclusion of a new collective agreement, and... until 6 months when the period of validity of the extended application of the legal rules of the collective agreement, etc. And Article 3. "Collective contract can be cancelled, talks about cancelling the collective contract" and Article 4. "The date of entry into force of this law shall cease to apply the legal rules of collective agreements which have been extended to the date of entry into force of this law." Before submitting this amendment to the law, the trade unions and the government tried to come into the social dialogue on solutions that would relate to extension, termination and all the conequences that are related to collective agreements. There was no deal, the government went with the bill. Immediately thereafter, the law is referred to by the Parliament on 1 June, 4 June, the organisational committee decides to approach the voter's statement on the referendum, and the referendum question begins: "Are you in favour of retaining the applicable legal provisions on extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and cancelling collective agreements?" Therefore, it is obvious that the subject of amendments to the law were extended application of the legal rules, the validity of extended application of the legal rules relating to collective agreements, that is, in the draft law, that is, in the referendum issue. And when these signatures were collected within 9 to 23 June of this year, and instead of being immediately delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the spirit of the law by the Organization Committee, it was only July 14th that a request was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the opening of the referendum in which it stands, many today said that this collection of signatures for declarations of extended application of the legal rules had nothing to do with the Labour Act. Those who spoke today from the Parliament speakers did not read the least about what the Elections' Organisational Committee said about the need to apply for a referendum to the President of the Croatian Parliament wrote: "The Organisational Committee on Votings on the need to request a referendum to be called after voters have assessed that there is a need for a referendum to be called on to amend certain provisions of the Law on Labour contained in the Proposal for the Law on the Work of the National Journal", that and that. So, you see colleagues and colleagues that there is an organically closely related to the plea and amendments to the Labour Act. When the Government withdrew on September 3rd the final proposal to amend the Labour Act, the Committee on the Constitution had also previously requested to verify the credibility and number of signatures, it was verified by the Constitution Committee, and now we have found ourselves in one legal situation which again today one party will constantly explain that it is only necessary that 10% of signatures are collected and that by the force of the Constitution and the law there is no more to be sent to the Constitutional Court to assess the question of whether there is a presumption of a referendum. The other side comes from having the basis to ask the Constitutional Court whether there are any assumptions provided for in paragraphs 77, 2 and 3 of the Constitution to call a referendum. And we today, constantly different variations, only one side defends its position as constitutionally and politically, the other side defends the other. It will also rule by the final vote of the Croatian Parliament. But why am I holding this one more time, I will try to point out why there is no constitutional-law basis for calling a referendum and that the voter's will is respected. The will of those who pleaded for a referendum was to prevent the adoption of amendments to the Labour Act. You remember well, the public remembers well when the bill was sent to the Croatian Parliament, that the president of the Organising Committee Ozren Matijasevic told the President of the Croatian Parliament that you did not dare to put yourself on the agenda and discuss changes to the Labour Act while the declaration and collection of signatures takes place. Therefore, the purpose when it finally came to the fact that the law was withdrawn by establishing dialogue with the government and the union is then the objective and those who pleaded for the referendum's opening. Why isn't it here yet? You see by the article, what can a referendum be called about? In this sense, it works 10%. If this is about amending the Constitution, amending the law and on another issue from the Parliament's section, in Article 81. The constitution is taxing on what the Parliament is doing. In the Parliament's section, the adoption of laws, amendments, suspensions, amendments to the law, but in the Parliament's section, it is not a matter of making a decision in the Parliament's section that concerns the retention of the existing positive legal provisions, parts of the law or laws as a whole. And therefore relevant constitutional and legal experts, experts from constitutional law professors are just calling for this legal position to be resonated and say there is no need for a referendum, there is no basis for a referendum. And we as the Committee on the Constitution could propose a proposal for a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, let the Assembly bring, cut and say no or no for a referendum. We wanted it to be largely resolved from the constitutional and legal point of view. If the Croatian Parliament accepts today, tomorrow accepts the proposal of the Constitutional Court Committee, that the Constitutional Court shall determine whether or not the assumptions for the referendum are met, if the Croatian Parliament says the thumb above is to go to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court must state within 30 days whether or not there are assumptions for calling a referendum. If the Parliament says a referendum is being called tomorrow, the referendum will be called. If the Constitutional Court says it has the basis for calling a referendum, the Croatian Parliament must review it and call a referendum. Therefore, this is all the key, and this is all about the lack of constitutional assumptions for the signing of the referendum and the wishes of the ruling coalition and the government to verify this and the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58397	Thank you very much. First of all, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58398	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Rules of Procedure of 254 have been injured, but not by a distinguished colleague of Shex, but because of that, although the orderly unionists reported yesterday a desire to participate in this agenda point at 15.03 hours, I do not say whose fault it is now, you should look at the port because the injured public of the work of the Parliament, the two unionists were sent back with an explanation that the debate on this item of the agenda was concluded, that it had moved to the second item of the agenda, and as you can see, we are still at this point and they asked for your presence neatly informing you, requesting a lot more seats even though they only got 10th but it's only now on the way. So the main complaint is now, please examine downstairs on the port because the two leading unionists at 15.03 p.m. have been returned. [[Intruder: Today or yesterday?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58399	If I were going to question this right now, we'd have to interrupt the session. This will be examined by the Secretariat... The secretariat will be questioned and we'll see what's going on. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We've got... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They are important and the secretary will be questioned. ... Today, today. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have, please, some secretary to question so let us inform the Parliament on what is... I just passed it on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're not gonna run, we're gonna keep working. And now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58400	Thank you. It is an incorrect quote from a colleague of the Vice-President of the Parliament of Seks who said, quote: "You are afraid of the referendum". Imagine, I mean, really, this has crossed all possible boundaries of imagination. We've been saying all day that we're for a referendum, HDZ that's against, and we're afraid of a referendum. Mr. Shakes, take courage, say it's our political will not to be a referendum, we're against, it's our attitude, it's our political attitude, we're stuck in that horn and we're not giving it up. ... Say it, have that thing and get your balls together. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58401	Your Honor, what we're discussing requires arguments, not that thing. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. I mean, no matter what it means, I don't know what you mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58402	We've already corrected these allegations, but as fellow Shakespeare insists on them, then we need to correct them again. It is not true, therefore, that fellow Shakespeare has brought together the existence and effectiveness of the proposal for a certain law with the possibility of a referendum on the matter. This question is simply incorrect and it is contrary to the Constitution and contrary to the law. Are you in favour of retaining the applicable legal provisions on the extension of the application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and the cancellation of collective agreements. If it's a legal proposal, it's true, the cause was a legal proposal, but it's irrelevant. So look... Just a minute. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] It is irrelevant whether there is a legal proposal or not. Look, while we didn't know much about it yet, how big referendums and questions were being conducted in the world so you know... A group and one to ban abortions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some country has banned abortion. They answered, so the question has already been settled. There were groups who wanted an abortion allowed. Or the reverse situation, there were situations that resolved differently, that it was banned and vice versa...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58403	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58404	To be allowed. So, the same questions have already been resolved, but the people want, the citizens want to resolve themselves differently...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58405	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58406	There is a question that has already been regulated because there is a constant danger and threat, and of you there is, from HDZ a constant threat already...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58407	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58408	Stimulated legal solutions.../Conversation disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58409	Your Honor! Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58410	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations of Vice President Shakespeare who said, referring to the SDP and probably the rest of the opposition, that we're afraid of the referendum. This is such an incorrect assumption that he deserved to enter the annals not only of Croatian parliamentarianism but probably also of the textbooks of logic in future at Croatian universities and beyond because we have been standing up for a referendum all day, and you, because of our fears and great concerns for the opposition, are pushing against it, so that our fears do not appear. Here I am, Mr. Vice President, at your concern for our fears, I sincerely thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58411	Thank you. I didn't think we'd fix our fears, but good. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is next, the distinguished representative of Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58412	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I waited for hours, I waited, I listened and I studied all this legal equilibrist. I, as some kind of politician, would be glad if I had these very good lawyers, whether they're doctors or I don't know who they are, they could explain why we don't use common, simple, common sense in political action. Because to apply this common sense would probably be one example of prosperity in this part of Europe, not an example of a country torn apart by a political, economic and moral crisis. I am truly concerned as a man, and I believe as all of you whose country is at heart because this country is collapsing. Do you notice that we don't have systems to protect against elemental disasters? The systems don't exist. Do you see that our planes are collapsing, etc., etc. The government has an obligation to manage this country, to manage the crisis, to make good decisions. He can make the wrong decisions, but he needs to persist behind them, try to correct them if he can correct them, not in this way try to bend his obligations. Because the basic responsibility for why we've been here all day is to discuss it in the government. On several occasions, the government could give up this famous amendment to the Labour Law. But she didn't do it. She's more than that, thank her gentlemen from the parliamentary majority for having to defend her indefensibly today. Under ridiculous comments, she simply forced people to go outside and sign this proposal on a request for a referendum. The question to end would have been if several ministers, including the prime minister, had not been able to cope at that time, had not reacted in this way. And that is why this transfer of responsibility to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is not correct, and that is why we will not be able to carry out any referendum unless the parliamentary majority agrees. This means that there will be referendums only in the case where most, when the authorities in Croatia respond. And then we'll probably get somewhere on Chavez's Venezuelan level, and I don't think that's our way to pursue it. But well, what happened happened. It can happen far more willing, more capable of government than this one. But defending her in these few ways I think it's incorrect. And it's incorrect, so number one. I'll count three. So number one to say that the citizens didn't know what they were signing. Is it possible that somewhere it says that citizens need to know what they're signing, or that someone will question them whether they know exactly what they're going to sign, or whether you need to know why I signed this request for a referendum? Is it because I don't agree with the amendments to the law, whether because I might have met some unionist I know or some unionist recognized me so he said put a signature here, it doesn't cost or because I love or don't love this government. It's completely irrelevant why I or anyone else put my signature on. Well, we're not in Orwell's eighty-fourth so big brother has to know why someone signed something. So is the vote. Have we ever asked a HDZ voter if he is aware of why he voted for the HDZ or someone who voted for the SDP whether he was in good sense when he voted for the SDP or any other voter of any other party, which is the right for citizens to vote or in this case to sign where there is one belief on the referendum as an expression, a more democratic expression of the will of citizens, which is not so. The referendum is one means for citizens to express their will. The referendum can also be politicized and it has always been so and will always be so. And that's why I'm against that excessive downsizing of the required number of signatures, because just as we'd lower to two or three percent of the required electoral body, I think such referendums would totally destroy a rather destabilized party scene in Croatia. Let us take examples of Slovenia in the referendum on this border with Croatia. Well, people there have shown their will whether they're for the current government or against it. How many of them knew what this agreement said. Or when they were brought and accepted, when the Constitution of the European Union was adopted, did anyone ask the citizens if they knew what the Constitution said. So some of the referendums did not pass precisely because the citizens used the referendum to vote against the current government for economic, social and social reasons, that is, the government's policy. And it's perfectly normal and it should be so accepted and probably the opposition majority that the minority would say the opposite because it would be in her interest at the time. It is also incorrect because of the observed irregularities to seek to degrade the entire work of the union. So, of the 813,000 signatures, it's been found to be valid 717000, quite enough. But here we heard a few times 56 dead, then 56 dead, then dead again. Yeah, 56 dead who weren't supposed to be on that list, but they found each other. Or I don't know a few who are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But that's exactly why control is being carried out to determine these irregularities. And here we should also commend the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Administration who did a great job. Now, precisely because they've raised these criteria and shown that good work can be done, of course, is now expected from other ministries and in other cases that such work will be done regardless of whether it's the electoral lists we've heard that are now cleansed and that there are no more dead souls like this. We'll believe it well. Or when it comes to giving incentives in agriculture, in the economy, social benefits and more. We've invested a lot of money in computerization. It is shown that order can be made if desired, but political will is needed. At the same time, it is incorrect, i.e. there is no single position on the publication of personal data. You dragged me here seven years ago for publishing some data about which I had nothing to do with or with that computer in the ministry regarding obtaining apartments and loans where order was sought because it was material goods and money from Croatian taxpayers. But back then, it was an intrusion into the personal, individual administration. Also when we talk about the defense register one of the basic reasons why the registry doesn't publish was that it's about the confidentiality of personal data, and here we have 400 people. Rose, Đurđica, Gordana, Nevenka, Snježana and order, etc. etc. Everything stands, name, signature, address. Only clouded those six numbers of a single parent number. So is that where the secrecy of the data is? Why is it one time worth it and another time it's not worth it? Then let's take a stand. This falls into your water and then opposes the publication of data from the register, although I think better data should not be published unless we know what to do with them or what to do with them. And to conclude, this is not a good way to go, the referendum should be called and such practices should be kept in the future, and the question remains, of course, whether in these circumstances any reform in Croatia is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58413	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58414	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Representative said it was completely irrelevant what they were and why they signed the citizens. Therefore, it is simply not true, because as much as one party to this Assembly has disputed that the procedure is to be implemented in accordance with the law, and that the Constitution and the laws should also be respected in this country, I would warn that the next organisational committee's article to decide to approach the voter's statement on the need to request a referendum, the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article contains a clearly formulated issue requiring the opening of a referendum and that any volume to be signed must have at the beginning a clearly formulated question on which a referendum is requested, precisely in order to prevent abuse and to prevent citizens' signatures signatures under the question required by the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58415	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, State Secretary with an associate. Before us today is the proposal for a conclusion of the Constitutional Court Committee, which we have referred to in the Constitutional Court, to establish the assumptions whether, pursuant to Article 87(1) to (3), the presumptions for calling a referendum on the issue that has been raised and on the basis of the draft law which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure. Before the start of my debate, I would stress that I do not doubt the good intentions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it sent the bill to the Parliament. I believe that the proposal came in view of the economic circumstances and the situation in which we are all a little bit blind today, because what was 10 years ago and today is not the same, and it should be understood both for the economy and for the workers and for the situation and financial and economic situation in which the Republic of Croatia is presently. First of all, it's extremely rude, and I can say rudely that it is thought that we wanted to demean our citizens, that we wanted to underestimate their will, precisely... which the government continued by withdrawing a legal proposal with trade unions, not an agreement reached with the union in state and public services, to show that the problems in which Croatia is located need to be addressed by dialogue, at a working table with the Prime Minister and Government, that at any moment it is positive and desirable to find such a solution. [[You don't understand.]] I said in the Committee on the Constitution that it may be excessive to provide a large amount of money and spend on a referendum, when it may be possible to spend 170 million kuna in today's situation for some purposes and for incentives and employment and for those whose money may be more needed at that time, especially given the circumstances that the bill has been withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure, and that there are no more formal reasons to call a referendum. Another question arises which is the role of the Croatian Parliament if the referendum issue will spread, then we can extend this legal issue to other laws, then it will be that only laws can be maintained or supported by referendums in this country. Then we do not need representative democracy, neither the Croatian Parliament nor the law in this House. First of all, I believe that the government has shown understanding of what the citizens have said to their signatures, signing an initiative in that section that is formally in accordance with the law and that this is why the law was withdrawn. If we respect the laws we have passed here, we must also respect the fact that the Ministry of the Administration, the Ministry of the Interior, has come to some knowledge that in some cases, and there are more than 90,000 of them have not respected the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because it is not possible that someone typed a machine with a computer 20, 30 names on more than 300 thousand signed documents, is not rounded up or not, there is a question of whether it is indeed the true will of citizens. However, even considering that we are not looking at this side, we should look at what happened in the meantime, and this was interpreted by constitutional experts on our committee, who taught us at these law schools, and obviously if four experts say the same thing, because there are no more concrete reasons, because there is no more harm to the concrete law, the law is still a positive law, no one is at risk, the law is, labour rights are still in force as provided for by the existing Labour Act, whether there should be a great amount of effort, a great amount of millions of kuna to call a referendum on the issue that has already been protected, and in such a way that, and under these new political circumstances, we should not spend any time, nor the will of the citizens, because when we ask citizens today we have been asked the law out of the process, we have come back to the table, in dialogue with the social partners, whether we have held this matter in question in question in question, in the present case, in the case, and in question, we would have been held in the country in question in question in question. I think that no one is crazy, that first of all, we should discuss better what we're going to do with the economy, how we're going to save jobs, rather than discuss what would happen if we did, and that we doubt the good intentions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when the law was withdrawn,... In due course, the law will be restored, making fools out of its citizens. [[You don't understand.]] I think the citizens of this country have shown that they trust this government, giving full 17 years of trust to the Croatian Democratic Community and giving our prime minister Mrs Kosor these difficult economic and financial circumstances full support. There should be understanding first and foremost for the government's efforts, but also for our citizens whom I trust, a lot of these discussions. If nothing is hurt anymore, and if there is no further threat to what has been misrepresented to them, I believe that I should give room to the dialogue and certainly welcome the union dialogue and what they have agreed with the Government when, as far as the unions of state and public servants are concerned, and I call on all trade unions to do the same in a dialogue, and in a normal and cultural way to understand the situation, we resolve the rights of collective agreements and rights under those laws that apply today in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58417	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. The first is about the amount of 170 million kuna for the referendum's expenses. I don't think that information is correct, so I'm going to make two facts into an argument. First, if we had recently passed the Census Act so that the entire census would cost 120 million kuna, otherwise it would take a month and people would go home. And the second is, this is what counterpart Maras mentioned today that in Slovakia it seems to me, the costs were about 7 million euros, so about 50 million kuna. Another incorrect allegation is, in the context of giving confidence for 17 years to Croatia's democratic community and Mrs Kosor. So it is incorrect that citizens trusted Eve Sanader, and Mrs Kosor has not won any elections yet, neither in 2005 as president nor as local in Zagreb two thousand and some as she ran, will not be next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58419	Okay. Then we have one replica now. This is distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58420	Thank you. You mentioned the money as an argument because of the cost of conducting a referendum in favour of not conducting a referendum. This really cannot be an argument for constitutional law and for what, therefore, the Supreme Law enables Croatian citizens. In the budget there is a budget stock that is used precisely for funds that cannot be planned because of this is this budget, these are the funds reserves. We can't suspend democracy because we're going to say that it only applies to some amount, the amount of money, and it's over expensive. It'll either be there or it won't be. We are really here as it is said in a people like that cat around the hot oatmeal, this seems to be about different political attitudes. Could the referendum have been prevented in time for the different authorities to behave and not give cause and motive for the motion to call the referendum, and then what happened happened. More than 700 thousand valid signatures when you throw away what you've been calling here all day, this, this, that, etc., where whoever you want, remains over 700 thousand valid. That number warns all of us, especially you in power not to play with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58421	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58422	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Jurjevic, you said this afternoon that some other parts of the body should be considered. I think that at these moments we should think brain and head and common sense tells us that at a time when there is no longer a proposal submitted to the Parliament, when no one's right is threatened and that it is absurd to call a referendum and that it is absurd to spend 170 million kunas for one right that... in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You would like elections, but the elections will be held next year in November 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58423	Your Honor, please answer your word and speak. Don't throw it away. Now it's the honourable representative of Tanja Wrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58424	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. Well, I've got to start with something I didn't see coming, but a colleague of Vice President Shakespeare who's still in the hall, so I'm gonna use it to ask him if I've got his last exposure right. In fact, I realized that you, your position would be that you would be very happy to carry out the referendum, but that would be contrary to the Constitution. Well, I believe you'll still have a final review explaining that position because it was my conclusion of your final presentation. I didn't raise any replicas and incorrect allegations because I'm about to argue right now. This argument of around 170 million kuna is indeed from an intellectual like yourself below my level because it was shot here, here it was lost in this country and 2 billion kuna by improvising and scaring citizens with the introduction of the emergency amendments to the Pensions Act yesterday and early pensions. Thus, we have much higher costs than these 170 million kunas that are done out of nowhere or ignorance or pure improvisation. But let's get back to this very thing. Today we are discussing whether to send the Constitutional Court to determine whether the referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution. The referendum issue would not be in line with the Constitution if it called for violence, racial discrimination, if it demeaned a group of citizens, if it were to equally violate the Constitution. This question, by my judgment, is not in the measure contrary to the Constitution. I would like to say that many times during the debate in this High House of Croatian Democracy, we forget some of the basic principles of our constitutional order. Here I mean the basic principle that we represent here, and, indirectly, the government elected in this House, and the entire state administration and local and regional administrations exist for the sake of the will of the citizens. There are also the will of citizens. Therefore, respect for the will of citizens is a fundamental principle of democracy. That's what we all like to say, but sometimes when we're not comfortable with it, we don't really interpret it that way. Even in this case, when more than 10% of the planned signatures of the electoral body are planned, as many as 16% of the total electoral body's signatures have undoubtedly been expressed the will of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are the source of democracy and the legitimacy of each government to want to call a referendum. On each list where the signatures were put, it was correct and unequivocally asked for their signature. And it didn't refer to any particular law. My question is hypothetical, but given the experience with our government, we have the right to ask it. What would happen if the Constitutional Court rejected this referendum? If in 2 months the Government had proposed a new amendment to the Labour Act, would these signatures be respected, or would they have been re-launched? I don't think citizens rightly have the confidence that the government won't re-propose any such or similar statement. I have said before, and I will now repeat, in this reading Mr. Seks made a request to President Bebić on 14 July by the initial committee on the referendum that, in one part, it is referred to a certain amendment to the Labour Act, however, in the request, at the very core of the request where it is written, where the precise referendum issue in the referendum question is listed is not referred to in that law, and there is no mention of that law in the decision to join the voter's statement of confirmation that the call for a referendum adopted by the initial committee on 4 June. It is clear to me, therefore, that this is a general formula relating to this now withdrawn proposal, but also to any future proposals that will touch those standards. None of my colleagues have noticed before, or I haven't heard that it's interesting that the proposal with the signatures of our Parliament president arrived on July 14th. A beautiful date, a date celebrating the beginning of the French Revolution, and then we can also hope in Croatia that it will be the launch of a whole process that will lead to another revolution, a democratic one. In a democratic world, of course, without some. There's been a lot of people here, and I also want to commend them to the Ministry of the Administration, the Ministry of the Interior who have worked hard to verify every signature. This was expected of them, it is their job and they are obliged to do so under the law and I hope it is indeed true that it was applied to the same list of voters, which many colleagues and colleagues today have expressed doubts about because in the voters' lists there many times it was not disputed that there were both dead and business incapacitated, etc. There have been many in the morning debate by Minister Llakara remarks that the signatures have not been collected at the nearest place that was near the residence of that particular voter, so I hope that they will not deny their right to move freely, because it is quite possible and impossible because they may have been somewhere else, and it is impossible to verify that. I hope that you will not now propose to amend the Law on Referendum which will identify some committee that will monitor citizens in the future where they sign, where these signed lists go, and that there will then not be enough members of the Intelligence Agency to do so, but will also be taken by external co-workers to determine these facts. Now, I believe that we can request the opinion of the Constitutional Court in the metrics of this issue, however, it is unnecessary, because it is quite clear that the Constitution in Article 87(1) requires the law to call a referendum if its question is not contrary to the Constitution and if the prescribed number, i.e. a minimum of 10% of the electoral body, is declared to call for such a referendum. The constitution is still the highest regulation in our country and I believe that it should be respected here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58425	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58426	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Tanja Vrbat, I also respect you as a young intellectual in the Parliament. I think we understand each other very well. I believe that you are not deeply in favour of calling a referendum, because under these circumstances and under the conditions of formal law where the proposal is withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure is absurd to go to the referendum because no one is entitled to a positive law that is no longer in force. And that is that you are for early elections, that you want to cause political chaos, that you want to challenge citizens' mistrust with HDZ and our government, and that there is a referendum on the back of workers, one poll of the popularity of SDP before parliamentary elections, I trust you deeply. But we are also on the Committee on the Constitution when you spoke of the will of the citizens, although we have admitted it, that more than 300 thousand signatories are not rounded up or not, or are you in favour, are you against. More than 90,000 signatures with the same handwriting written request, computer- typed names. Is that the will of citizens, are those citizens who just signed really read the question and understood what it was about? That's what I'm asking you as a young intellectual and as a person I told at first what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58427	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Tanja Vrbas.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58428	Thank you very much. My colleague Salapic absolutely agrees that there were irregularities in the collection of signatures which on such a mass of signatures were inevitable and that the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Justice found irregularities and deleted double signatures and I think. And I am absolutely not for causing chaos, I am for calling a referendum, I am that this referendum succeeds, and how do you think it would not compromise the popularity of our government, then I would be pleased to see these ovations that could be seen throughout Croatia during the conference campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58429	Thank you. And now we're moving on with an individual debate. It's our guest, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here at the end of the whole day's debate may just repeat once again for the clarity of a few things about this proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. In fact, let's not forget what we're discussing here today. We are not discussing or making a decision on the calling or the calling of a referendum. We are today discussing the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system which is proposed to the Croatian Assembly in accordance with Article 95. The constitutional law of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to determine whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been established The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the opening of a referendum on calling, and the issue is now being further cited. Namely, everything in accordance with the Constitution and the law. There is no doubt that the reason for the signing of the referendum was the government's proposal for amendments to the Labour Act. And that's a notorious fact. It is neither forensics nor necessary, as SDP President Milanovic said, but it is a generally known thing that ultimately stands in the request for a referendum submitted by the Elections' Organisational Committee on the need to request a referendum in which the introduction clearly refers to the amendment and addition of the Labour Act. Of course, and it is common sense to think that it would not have occurred to anyone to call out a referendum out of pure peace with a question of eternal remnant in force of a certain norm of some law. At least no one's thought of it so far. As far as unions are concerned, their move is legitimate, the unions are tasked with using all legal means to protect workers' rights, and so they are seeking an institute that is stronger than the will of the legislator than this Croatian Parliament, and this stronger institute is certainly the will of all citizens of the entire electoral body, which is shown by the referendum. But when the union formed the Organizational Committee and the union started to collect signatures, of course, when the government proposed an amendment to the Labour Act, that we do not now elaborate and enter into the content of these amendments and additions. What's the situation today? The law has been withdrawn from the procedure, so what the referendum question required, or what was proposed to call the referendum, is consummated by the withdrawal of the law from the procedure. And now there is a whole new situation where it is proposed that, given this new situation, there remains a question that wants to retain a state, and there is no requirement to amend the act or law, whether it is in accordance with the provisions of the Croatian Constitution. And I would ask you nicely to come back and we all respect the Constitution and the laws that regulate this matter. Unlike SDP MPs, Lesar, an HNS representative, I believe that in democratic countries, in the rule of law that we want to be, the Constitution and the law must be observed. And he says among other things, the constitution says the parliament will call a referendum when it asks 10% of the total number of voters, that the parliament will call a referendum in accordance with the law. So congenital norm, but if it is in line with this constitutional provision, it is in accordance with the law. And what does the law say? The law says, among other things, that the referendum issue must be clear and precise, and the law also says that the decision to call a referendum must be clear and reasoned. But as we heard today, not to repeat, from SDP representatives who claim that it was not a referendum that asked whether citizens to keep the norm and the Labour Act were actually a referendum on the government, so we heard from HNS representatives that it was also a referendum on government in general and on the real position of workers, so I, if we were to decide today, on the calling of a referendum, really don't know how to formulate a decision to call a referendum and how to explain this referendum issue because it is clearly quite different. It is therefore indeed good that, in the light of all these circumstances, the Croatian Parliament draws this conclusion, which would refer to the Constitutional Court, as set out by the Constitutional Court Act, that the Constitutional Court determines whether the issue is also referencing in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. Today we heard here and it has been repeated repeatedly that the government is systematically doing everything possible to avoid a referendum. Conversely, the government is the one and we all end up thinking that the Constitution and the laws should be respected. Following the signing process, after the signatures were collected, the government secured in the state budget funds for the implementation of the referendum. The government is the one who, at the request of the Constitutional Committee and the Rules of Procedure, has done the work in accordance with the law of verification, because let's not forget and repeat, let's not take the Constitution and the Law of Referendum unrelently. This isn't about a petition signed by citizens, and then this petition is some initiative that doesn't commit anyone. It is the property requirement of the conditio son of quantone, a condition without which the referendum does not exist and where it should be determined that there are indeed more than 10% of the total electoral body, that it signed it to then make such signatures and oblige the Parliament. Representative Lesar today says that someone's vague constitution, a vague law, is unclear constitutional laws. I don't know, maybe Agent Lesar is making it all unclear. In objective terms, it is clear here that I do not repeat, the Constitution is determined when a referendum must be called if it is to sign a request for the implementation of a referendum of more than 10% of the total number of voters. The referendum law discusses the constitutional norm, from the provisions on procedures, how to collect signatures, provisions on the referendum issue, provisions on the decision-making of referendums here in the Croatian Parliament. The constitutional law states very clearly in Article 95 that, when requested by the Croatian Parliament, when a referendum was called for by more than 10% of citizens from the total electoral body, the Constitutional Court will determine whether the contents of the referendum issue are in accordance with the Constitution and whether all the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been met. The constitution, and so I don't repeat it. Because here today we are deciding or discussing the proposal for a conclusion of the Constitution Committee, which is proposed to refer this Croatian Parliament to the Constitutional Court and ask the Constitutional Court for this statement whether all assumptions are met in accordance with Article 87. The constitution and since we have one situation that has not occurred so far because it is common for a referendum question to seek to regulate an area or change the way it is arranged, I think for the first time is a referendum question that something that has been arranged in a certain way is actually cementing pro futuro and forever and therefore really necessary for the Constitutional Court to give its opinion on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58431	We've already corrected these allegations, but as fellow Shakespeare insists on them, then we need to correct them again. It is not true, therefore, that fellow Shakespeare has brought together the existence and effectiveness of the proposal for a certain law with the possibility of a referendum on the matter. This question is simply incorrect and it is contrary to the Constitution and contrary to the law. Are you in favour of retaining the applicable legal provisions on the extension of the application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and the cancellation of collective agreements. If it's a legal proposal, it's true, the cause was a legal proposal, but it's irrelevant. So look... Just a minute. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] It is irrelevant whether there is a legal proposal or not. Look, while we didn't know much about it yet, how big referendums and questions were being conducted in the world so you know... A group and one to ban abortions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some country has banned abortion. They answered, so the question has already been settled. There were groups who wanted an abortion allowed. Or the reverse situation, there were situations that resolved differently, that it was banned and vice versa...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58432	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58433	To be allowed. So, the same questions have already been resolved, but the people want, the citizens want to resolve themselves differently...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58434	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58435	There is a question that has already been regulated because there is a constant danger and threat, and of you there is, from HDZ a constant threat already...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58436	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58437	Stimulated legal solutions.../Conversation disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58438	Your Honor! Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations of Vice President Shakespeare who said, referring to the SDP and probably the rest of the opposition, that we're afraid of the referendum. This is such an incorrect assumption that he deserved to enter the annals not only of Croatian parliamentarianism but probably also of the textbooks of logic in future at Croatian universities and beyond because we have been standing up for a referendum all day, and you, because of our fears and great concerns for the opposition, are pushing against it, so that our fears do not appear. Here I am, Mr. Vice President, at your concern for our fears, I sincerely thank you. IVAN KARNAK:
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58440	Thank you. I didn't think we'd fix our fears, but good. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is next, the distinguished representative of Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I waited for hours, I waited, I listened and I studied all this legal equilibrist. I, as some kind of politician, would be glad if I had these very good lawyers, whether they're doctors or I don't know who they are, they could explain why we don't use common, simple, common sense in political action. Because to apply this common sense would probably be one example of prosperity in this part of Europe, not an example of a country torn apart by a political, economic and moral crisis. I am truly concerned as a man, and I believe as all of you whose country is at heart because this country is collapsing. Do you notice that we don't have systems to protect against elemental disasters? The systems don't exist. Do you see that our planes are collapsing, etc., etc. The government has an obligation to manage this country, to manage the crisis, to make good decisions. He can make the wrong decisions, but he needs to persist behind them, try to correct them if he can correct them, not in this way try to bend his obligations. Because the basic responsibility for why we've been here all day is to discuss it in the government. On several occasions, the government could give up this famous amendment to the Labour Law. But she didn't do it. She's more than that, thank her gentlemen from the parliamentary majority for having to defend her indefensibly today. Under ridiculous comments, she simply forced people to go outside and sign this proposal on a request for a referendum. The question to end would have been if several ministers, including the prime minister, had not been able to cope at that time, had not reacted in this way. And that is why this transfer of responsibility to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is not correct, and that is why we will not be able to carry out any referendum unless the parliamentary majority agrees. This means that there will be referendums only in the case where most, when the authorities in Croatia respond. And then we'll probably get somewhere on Chavez's Venezuelan level, and I don't think that's our way to pursue it. But well, what happened happened. It can happen far more willing, more capable of government than this one. But defending her in these few ways I think it's incorrect. And it's incorrect, so number one. I'll count three. So number one to say that the citizens didn't know what they were signing. Is it possible that somewhere it says that citizens need to know what they're signing, or that someone will question them whether they know exactly what they're going to sign, or whether you need to know why I signed this request for a referendum? Is it because I don't agree with the amendments to the law, whether because I might have met some unionist I know or some unionist recognized me so he said put a signature here, it doesn't cost or because I love or don't love this government. It's completely irrelevant why I or anyone else put my signature on. Well, we're not in Orwell's eighty-fourth so big brother has to know why someone signed something. So is the vote. Have we ever asked a HDZ voter if he is aware of why he voted for the HDZ or someone who voted for the SDP whether he was in good sense when he voted for the SDP or any other voter of any other party, which is the right for citizens to vote or in this case to sign where there is one belief on the referendum as an expression, a more democratic expression of the will of citizens, which is not so. The referendum is one means for citizens to express their will. The referendum can also be politicized and it has always been so and will always be so. And that's why I'm against that excessive downsizing of the required number of signatures, because just as we'd lower to two or three percent of the required electoral body, I think such referendums would totally destroy a rather destabilized party scene in Croatia. Let us take examples of Slovenia in the referendum on this border with Croatia. Well, people there have shown their will whether they're for the current government or against it. How many of them knew what this agreement said. Or when they were brought and accepted, when the Constitution of the European Union was adopted, did anyone ask the citizens if they knew what the Constitution said. So some of the referendums did not pass precisely because the citizens used the referendum to vote against the current government for economic, social and social reasons, that is, the government's policy. And it's perfectly normal and it should be so accepted and probably the opposition majority that the minority would say the opposite because it would be in her interest at the time. It is also incorrect because of the observed irregularities to seek to degrade the entire work of the union. So, of the 813,000 signatures, it's been found to be valid 717000, quite enough. But here we heard a few times 56 dead, then 56 dead, then dead again. Yeah, 56 dead who weren't supposed to be on that list, but they found each other. Or I don't know a few who are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But that's exactly why control is being carried out to determine these irregularities. And here we should also commend the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Administration who did a great job. Now, precisely because they've raised these criteria and shown that good work can be done, of course, is now expected from other ministries and in other cases that such work will be done regardless of whether it's the electoral lists we've heard that are now cleansed and that there are no more dead souls like this. We'll believe it well. Or when it comes to giving incentives in agriculture, in the economy, social benefits and more. We've invested a lot of money in computerization. It is shown that order can be made if desired, but political will is needed. At the same time, it is incorrect, i.e. there is no single position on the publication of personal data. You dragged me here seven years ago for publishing some data about which I had nothing to do with or with that computer in the ministry regarding obtaining apartments and loans where order was sought because it was material goods and money from Croatian taxpayers. But back then, it was an intrusion into the personal, individual administration. Also when we talk about the defense register one of the basic reasons why the registry doesn't publish was that it's about the confidentiality of personal data, and here we have 400 people. Rose, Đurđica, Gordana, Nevenka, Snježana and order, etc. etc. Everything stands, name, signature, address. Only clouded those six numbers of a single parent number. So is that where the secrecy of the data is? Why is it one time worth it and another time it's not worth it? Then let's take a stand. This falls into your water and then opposes the publication of data from the register, although I think better data should not be published unless we know what to do with them or what to do with them. And to conclude, this is not a good way to go, the referendum should be called and such practices should be kept in the future, and the question remains, of course, whether in these circumstances any reform in Croatia is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58442	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Representative said it was completely irrelevant what they were and why they signed the citizens. Therefore, it is simply not true, because as much as one party to this Assembly has disputed that the procedure is to be implemented in accordance with the law, and that the Constitution and the laws should also be respected in this country, I would warn that the next organisational committee's article to decide to approach the voter's statement on the need to request a referendum, the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article contains a clearly formulated issue requiring the opening of a referendum and that any volume to be signed must have at the beginning a clearly formulated question on which a referendum is requested, precisely in order to prevent abuse and to prevent citizens' signatures signatures under the question required by the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58444	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58445	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, State Secretary with an associate. Before us today is the proposal for a conclusion of the Constitutional Court Committee, which we have referred to in the Constitutional Court, to establish the assumptions whether, pursuant to Article 87(1) to (3), the presumptions for calling a referendum on the issue that has been raised and on the basis of the draft law which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure. Before the start of my debate, I would stress that I do not doubt the good intentions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it sent the bill to the Parliament. I believe that the proposal came in view of the economic circumstances and the situation in which we are all a little bit blind today, because what was 10 years ago and today is not the same, and it should be understood both for the economy and for the workers and for the situation and financial and economic situation in which the Republic of Croatia is presently. First of all, it's extremely rude, and I can say rudely that it is thought that we wanted to demean our citizens, that we wanted to underestimate their will, precisely... which the government continued by withdrawing a legal proposal with trade unions, not an agreement reached with the union in state and public services, to show that the problems in which Croatia is located need to be addressed by dialogue, at a working table with the Prime Minister and Government, that at any moment it is positive and desirable to find such a solution. [[You don't understand.]] I said in the Committee on the Constitution that it may be excessive to provide a large amount of money and spend on a referendum, when it may be possible to spend 170 million kuna in today's situation for some purposes and for incentives and employment and for those whose money may be more needed at that time, especially given the circumstances that the bill has been withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure, and that there are no more formal reasons to call a referendum. Another question arises which is the role of the Croatian Parliament if the referendum issue will spread, then we can extend this legal issue to other laws, then it will be that only laws can be maintained or supported by referendums in this country. Then we do not need representative democracy, neither the Croatian Parliament nor the law in this House. First of all, I believe that the government has shown understanding of what the citizens have said to their signatures, signing an initiative in that section that is formally in accordance with the law and that this is why the law was withdrawn. If we respect the laws we have passed here, we must also respect the fact that the Ministry of the Administration, the Ministry of the Interior, has come to some knowledge that in some cases, and there are more than 90,000 of them have not respected the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because it is not possible that someone typed a machine with a computer 20, 30 names on more than 300 thousand signed documents, is not rounded up or not, there is a question of whether it is indeed the true will of citizens. However, even considering that we are not looking at this side, we should look at what happened in the meantime, and this was interpreted by constitutional experts on our committee, who taught us at these law schools, and obviously if four experts say the same thing, because there are no more concrete reasons, because there is no more harm to the concrete law, the law is still a positive law, no one is at risk, the law is, labour rights are still in force as provided for by the existing Labour Act, whether there should be a great amount of effort, a great amount of millions of kuna to call a referendum on the issue that has already been protected, and in such a way that, and under these new political circumstances, we should not spend any time, nor the will of the citizens, because when we ask citizens today we have been asked the law out of the process, we have come back to the table, in dialogue with the social partners, whether we have held this matter in question in question in question, in the present case, in the case, and in question, we would have been held in the country in question in question in question. I think that no one is crazy, that first of all, we should discuss better what we're going to do with the economy, how we're going to save jobs, rather than discuss what would happen if we did, and that we doubt the good intentions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when the law was withdrawn,... In due course, the law will be restored, making fools out of its citizens. [[You don't understand.]] I think the citizens of this country have shown that they trust this government, giving full 17 years of trust to the Croatian Democratic Community and giving our prime minister Mrs Kosor these difficult economic and financial circumstances full support. There should be understanding first and foremost for the government's efforts, but also for our citizens whom I trust, a lot of these discussions. If nothing is hurt anymore, and if there is no further threat to what has been misrepresented to them, I believe that I should give room to the dialogue and certainly welcome the union dialogue and what they have agreed with the Government when, as far as the unions of state and public servants are concerned, and I call on all trade unions to do the same in a dialogue, and in a normal and cultural way to understand the situation, we resolve the rights of collective agreements and rights under those laws that apply today in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58446	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58447	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. The first is about the amount of 170 million kuna for the referendum's expenses. I don't think that information is correct, so I'm going to make two facts into an argument. First, if we had recently passed the Census Act so that the entire census would cost 120 million kuna, otherwise it would take a month and people would go home. And the second is, this is what counterpart Maras mentioned today that in Slovakia it seems to me, the costs were about 7 million euros, so about 50 million kuna. Another incorrect allegation is, in the context of giving confidence for 17 years to Croatia's democratic community and Mrs Kosor. So it is incorrect that citizens trusted Eve Sanader, and Mrs Kosor has not won any elections yet, neither in 2005 as president nor as local in Zagreb two thousand and some as she ran, will not be next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58448	Okay. Then we have one replica now. This is distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58449	Thank you. You mentioned the money as an argument because of the cost of conducting a referendum in favour of not conducting a referendum. This really cannot be an argument for constitutional law and for what, therefore, the Supreme Law enables Croatian citizens. In the budget there is a budget stock that is used precisely for funds that cannot be planned because of this is this budget, these are the funds reserves. We can't suspend democracy because we're going to say that it only applies to some amount, the amount of money, and it's over expensive. It'll either be there or it won't be. We are really here as it is said in a people like that cat around the hot oatmeal, this seems to be about different political attitudes. Could the referendum have been prevented in time for the different authorities to behave and not give cause and motive for the motion to call the referendum, and then what happened happened. More than 700 thousand valid signatures when you throw away what you've been calling here all day, this, this, that, etc., where whoever you want, remains over 700 thousand valid. That number warns all of us, especially you in power not to play with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58450	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58451	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Jurjevic, you said this afternoon that some other parts of the body should be considered. I think that at these moments we should think brain and head and common sense tells us that at a time when there is no longer a proposal submitted to the Parliament, when no one's right is threatened and that it is absurd to call a referendum and that it is absurd to spend 170 million kunas for one right that... in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You would like elections, but the elections will be held next year in November 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58452	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58453	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. The first is about the amount of 170 million kuna for the referendum's expenses. I don't think that information is correct, so I'm going to make two facts into an argument. First, if we had recently passed the Census Act so that the entire census would cost 120 million kuna, otherwise it would take a month and people would go home. And the second is, this is what counterpart Maras mentioned today that in Slovakia it seems to me, the costs were about 7 million euros, so about 50 million kuna. Another incorrect allegation is, in the context of giving confidence for 17 years to Croatia's democratic community and Mrs Kosor. So it is incorrect that citizens trusted Eve Sanader, and Mrs Kosor has not won any elections yet, neither in 2005 as president nor as local in Zagreb two thousand and some as she ran, will not be next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58454	Okay. Then we have one replica now. This is distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58455	Thank you. You mentioned the money as an argument because of the cost of conducting a referendum in favour of not conducting a referendum. This really cannot be an argument for constitutional law and for what, therefore, the Supreme Law enables Croatian citizens. In the budget there is a budget stock that is used precisely for funds that cannot be planned because of this is this budget, these are the funds reserves. We can't suspend democracy because we're going to say that it only applies to some amount, the amount of money, and it's over expensive. It'll either be there or it won't be. We are really here as it is said in a people like that cat around the hot oatmeal, this seems to be about different political attitudes. Could the referendum have been prevented in time for the different authorities to behave and not give cause and motive for the motion to call the referendum, and then what happened happened. More than 700 thousand valid signatures when you throw away what you've been calling here all day, this, this, that, etc., where whoever you want, remains over 700 thousand valid. That number warns all of us, especially you in power not to play with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58456	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58457	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Jurjevic, you said this afternoon that some other parts of the body should be considered. I think that at these moments we should think brain and head and common sense tells us that at a time when there is no longer a proposal submitted to the Parliament, when no one's right is threatened and that it is absurd to call a referendum and that it is absurd to spend 170 million kunas for one right that... in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You would like elections, but the elections will be held next year in November 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58458	Your Honor, please answer your word and speak. Don't throw it away. Now it's the honourable representative of Tanja Wrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58459	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. Well, I've got to start with something I didn't see coming, but a colleague of Vice President Shakespeare who's still in the hall, so I'm gonna use it to ask him if I've got his last exposure right. In fact, I realized that you, your position would be that you would be very happy to carry out the referendum, but that would be contrary to the Constitution. Well, I believe you'll still have a final review explaining that position because it was my conclusion of your final presentation. I didn't raise any replicas and incorrect allegations because I'm about to argue right now. This argument of around 170 million kuna is indeed from an intellectual like yourself below my level because it was shot here, here it was lost in this country and 2 billion kuna by improvising and scaring citizens with the introduction of the emergency amendments to the Pensions Act yesterday and early pensions. Thus, we have much higher costs than these 170 million kunas that are done out of nowhere or ignorance or pure improvisation. But let's get back to this very thing. Today we are discussing whether to send the Constitutional Court to determine whether the referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution. The referendum issue would not be in line with the Constitution if it called for violence, racial discrimination, if it demeaned a group of citizens, if it were to equally violate the Constitution. This question, by my judgment, is not in the measure contrary to the Constitution. I would like to say that many times during the debate in this High House of Croatian Democracy, we forget some of the basic principles of our constitutional order. Here I mean the basic principle that we represent here, and, indirectly, the government elected in this House, and the entire state administration and local and regional administrations exist for the sake of the will of the citizens. There are also the will of citizens. Therefore, respect for the will of citizens is a fundamental principle of democracy. That's what we all like to say, but sometimes when we're not comfortable with it, we don't really interpret it that way. Even in this case, when more than 10% of the planned signatures of the electoral body are planned, as many as 16% of the total electoral body's signatures have undoubtedly been expressed the will of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are the source of democracy and the legitimacy of each government to want to call a referendum. On each list where the signatures were put, it was correct and unequivocally asked for their signature. And it didn't refer to any particular law. My question is hypothetical, but given the experience with our government, we have the right to ask it. What would happen if the Constitutional Court rejected this referendum? If in 2 months the Government had proposed a new amendment to the Labour Act, would these signatures be respected, or would they have been re-launched? I don't think citizens rightly have the confidence that the government won't re-propose any such or similar statement. I have said before, and I will now repeat, in this reading Mr. Seks made a request to President Bebić on 14 July by the initial committee on the referendum that, in one part, it is referred to a certain amendment to the Labour Act, however, in the request, at the very core of the request where it is written, where the precise referendum issue in the referendum question is listed is not referred to in that law, and there is no mention of that law in the decision to join the voter's statement of confirmation that the call for a referendum adopted by the initial committee on 4 June. It is clear to me, therefore, that this is a general formula relating to this now withdrawn proposal, but also to any future proposals that will touch those standards. None of my colleagues have noticed before, or I haven't heard that it's interesting that the proposal with the signatures of our Parliament president arrived on July 14th. A beautiful date, a date celebrating the beginning of the French Revolution, and then we can also hope in Croatia that it will be the launch of a whole process that will lead to another revolution, a democratic one. In a democratic world, of course, without some. There's been a lot of people here, and I also want to commend them to the Ministry of the Administration, the Ministry of the Interior who have worked hard to verify every signature. This was expected of them, it is their job and they are obliged to do so under the law and I hope it is indeed true that it was applied to the same list of voters, which many colleagues and colleagues today have expressed doubts about because in the voters' lists there many times it was not disputed that there were both dead and business incapacitated, etc. There have been many in the morning debate by Minister Llakara remarks that the signatures have not been collected at the nearest place that was near the residence of that particular voter, so I hope that they will not deny their right to move freely, because it is quite possible and impossible because they may have been somewhere else, and it is impossible to verify that. I hope that you will not now propose to amend the Law on Referendum which will identify some committee that will monitor citizens in the future where they sign, where these signed lists go, and that there will then not be enough members of the Intelligence Agency to do so, but will also be taken by external co-workers to determine these facts. Now, I believe that we can request the opinion of the Constitutional Court in the metrics of this issue, however, it is unnecessary, because it is quite clear that the Constitution in Article 87(1) requires the law to call a referendum if its question is not contrary to the Constitution and if the prescribed number, i.e. a minimum of 10% of the electoral body, is declared to call for such a referendum. The constitution is still the highest regulation in our country and I believe that it should be respected here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58460	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Tanja Vrbat, I also respect you as a young intellectual in the Parliament. I think we understand each other very well. I believe that you are not deeply in favour of calling a referendum, because under these circumstances and under the conditions of formal law where the proposal is withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure is absurd to go to the referendum because no one is entitled to a positive law that is no longer in force. And that is that you are for early elections, that you want to cause political chaos, that you want to challenge citizens' mistrust with HDZ and our government, and that there is a referendum on the back of workers, one poll of the popularity of SDP before parliamentary elections, I trust you deeply. But we are also on the Committee on the Constitution when you spoke of the will of the citizens, although we have admitted it, that more than 300 thousand signatories are not rounded up or not, or are you in favour, are you against. More than 90,000 signatures with the same handwriting written request, computer- typed names. Is that the will of citizens, are those citizens who just signed really read the question and understood what it was about? That's what I'm asking you as a young intellectual and as a person I told at first what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58462	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Tanja Vrbas.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58463	Thank you very much. My colleague Salapic absolutely agrees that there were irregularities in the collection of signatures which on such a mass of signatures were inevitable and that the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Justice found irregularities and deleted double signatures and I think. And I am absolutely not for causing chaos, I am for calling a referendum, I am that this referendum succeeds, and how do you think it would not compromise the popularity of our government, then I would be pleased to see these ovations that could be seen throughout Croatia during the conference campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58464	Thank you. And now we're moving on with an individual debate. It's our guest, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here at the end of the whole day's debate may just repeat once again for the clarity of a few things about this proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. In fact, let's not forget what we're discussing here today. We are not discussing or making a decision on the calling or the calling of a referendum. We are today discussing the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system which is proposed to the Croatian Assembly in accordance with Article 95. The constitutional law of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to determine whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been established The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the opening of a referendum on calling, and the issue is now being further cited. Namely, everything in accordance with the Constitution and the law. There is no doubt that the reason for the signing of the referendum was the government's proposal for amendments to the Labour Act. And that's a notorious fact. It is neither forensics nor necessary, as SDP President Milanovic said, but it is a generally known thing that ultimately stands in the request for a referendum submitted by the Elections' Organisational Committee on the need to request a referendum in which the introduction clearly refers to the amendment and addition of the Labour Act. Of course, and it is common sense to think that it would not have occurred to anyone to call out a referendum out of pure peace with a question of eternal remnant in force of a certain norm of some law. At least no one's thought of it so far. As far as unions are concerned, their move is legitimate, the unions are tasked with using all legal means to protect workers' rights, and so they are seeking an institute that is stronger than the will of the legislator than this Croatian Parliament, and this stronger institute is certainly the will of all citizens of the entire electoral body, which is shown by the referendum. But when the union formed the Organizational Committee and the union started to collect signatures, of course, when the government proposed an amendment to the Labour Act, that we do not now elaborate and enter into the content of these amendments and additions. What's the situation today? The law has been withdrawn from the procedure, so what the referendum question required, or what was proposed to call the referendum, is consummated by the withdrawal of the law from the procedure. And now there is a whole new situation where it is proposed that, given this new situation, there remains a question that wants to retain a state, and there is no requirement to amend the act or law, whether it is in accordance with the provisions of the Croatian Constitution. And I would ask you nicely to come back and we all respect the Constitution and the laws that regulate this matter. Unlike SDP MPs, Lesar, an HNS representative, I believe that in democratic countries, in the rule of law that we want to be, the Constitution and the law must be observed. And he says among other things, the constitution says the parliament will call a referendum when it asks 10% of the total number of voters, that the parliament will call a referendum in accordance with the law. So congenital norm, but if it is in line with this constitutional provision, it is in accordance with the law. And what does the law say? The law says, among other things, that the referendum issue must be clear and precise, and the law also says that the decision to call a referendum must be clear and reasoned. But as we heard today, not to repeat, from SDP representatives who claim that it was not a referendum that asked whether citizens to keep the norm and the Labour Act were actually a referendum on the government, so we heard from HNS representatives that it was also a referendum on government in general and on the real position of workers, so I, if we were to decide today, on the calling of a referendum, really don't know how to formulate a decision to call a referendum and how to explain this referendum issue because it is clearly quite different. It is therefore indeed good that, in the light of all these circumstances, the Croatian Parliament draws this conclusion, which would refer to the Constitutional Court, as set out by the Constitutional Court Act, that the Constitutional Court determines whether the issue is also referencing in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. Today we heard here and it has been repeated repeatedly that the government is systematically doing everything possible to avoid a referendum. Conversely, the government is the one and we all end up thinking that the Constitution and the laws should be respected. Following the signing process, after the signatures were collected, the government secured in the state budget funds for the implementation of the referendum. The government is the one who, at the request of the Constitutional Committee and the Rules of Procedure, has done the work in accordance with the law of verification, because let's not forget and repeat, let's not take the Constitution and the Law of Referendum unrelently. This isn't about a petition signed by citizens, and then this petition is some initiative that doesn't commit anyone. It is the property requirement of the conditio son of quantone, a condition without which the referendum does not exist and where it should be determined that there are indeed more than 10% of the total electoral body, that it signed it to then make such signatures and oblige the Parliament. Representative Lesar today says that someone's vague constitution, a vague law, is unclear constitutional laws. I don't know, maybe Agent Lesar is making it all unclear. In objective terms, it is clear here that I do not repeat, the Constitution is determined when a referendum must be called if it is to sign a request for the implementation of a referendum of more than 10% of the total number of voters. The referendum law discusses the constitutional norm, from the provisions on procedures, how to collect signatures, provisions on the referendum issue, provisions on the decision-making of referendums here in the Croatian Parliament. The constitutional law states very clearly in Article 95 that, when requested by the Croatian Parliament, when a referendum was called for by more than 10% of citizens from the total electoral body, the Constitutional Court will determine whether the contents of the referendum issue are in accordance with the Constitution and whether all the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been met. The constitution, and so I don't repeat it. Because here today we are deciding or discussing the proposal for a conclusion of the Constitution Committee, which is proposed to refer this Croatian Parliament to the Constitutional Court and ask the Constitutional Court for this statement whether all assumptions are met in accordance with Article 87. The constitution and since we have one situation that has not occurred so far because it is common for a referendum question to seek to regulate an area or change the way it is arranged, I think for the first time is a referendum question that something that has been arranged in a certain way is actually cementing pro futuro and forever and therefore really necessary for the Constitutional Court to give its opinion on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58466	Thank you. For a moment we will interrupt the debate given that I received a report from a member of the Croatian Parliament's Guard and since it was said that union representatives could not enter the Assembly and I would read what they wrote. And that's that in 15.04 hours Mr. Ozren Matijasevic came to entry number 6, asking if the point meant the one that was being discussed ended. A fellow writer said she ended up in ignorance, didn't know she wasn't and Mr. Matijasevic said even better, turned around and left. He also explained it to a colleague who came into his meeting, it's about Mrs. Memorial Adversek. They say we made it out of ignorance. At 16:30, Mr. Matijasevic arrived, apologized and said sorry, it was my fault. Therefore, they were not stopped and prevented from entering the hall, or union representatives, but there was a certain misunderstanding between the guards and the union representatives. They could have come in if they wanted to, that's what they decided. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Is that right? Then we continue the debate now. We have three replicas. First is Honorable Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lauren is here. One replica, i.e. looking for one clarification and interpretation. It is indisputable that thanks to the union is expressed in a certain way the opinion of people and the need to discuss something. Just as the law provides for a certain procedure for the referendum to take place. What confuses and asks me people is the question of what is actually a referendum question about what people say when a referendum is asked. In fact, the question can be asked, are we in favour of the short session of the Parliament? The answer would I think was very simple and would have been known. But if someone were to ask if you'd like or not for the sessions to last shorter then it shouldn't be enough to sign, but we should say something I'm in, I'm against or like this. I believe everyone would say that they last shorter. I mean, I'd like to know the answer I'm wearing to the election base to say so, because you're saying that it's less and less clear here in terms of the referendum, and that's still not clear. I know what question was asked when the referendum was being called, when a referendum was to be made. But now I don't know what the question would be for a future referendum no matter what some would like a referendum with a specific question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58468	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58469	Thank you very much. Well, fellow counsel like this. So I said the law is clear, the law is quite clear. The law says the referendum question must be clear. And when such a referendum question is answered positively, then it must be known how this pro futuru will work. So this issue would work in a way that these provisions of the law that are now in the Labour Act in the event of a positive outcome of the referendum could never change again, nor would the future government, nor would any assembly of the Croatian Parliament, until a new referendum was called on the issue. But the second is whether it was known to the people who signed the referendum. And here we heard today that it's completely irrelevant why people put signatures on and what they were putting signatures on, which, of course, is not true. And had they not known that, we had seen it at the end of the day, there were television videos that dragged people by the sleeve, and it was said to them, "Come to the young people, sign it, because you will be better off when you work one day." So, anyway, if you start at 700 today, and I don't mean no offense to Croatian citizens that they're stupid and they don't understand what they're signing. But the fact is that people do not know how to repeat the referendum issue, nor do any union leaders, nor do some politicians know how to repeat the referendum issue that was proposed for the implementation of the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58470	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58471	My colleague Lovrin, you're saying that since SDP advocates insist today that citizens have signed this request for a referendum beguiled because they've actually expressed something else, one dissatisfaction with the government. I must warn you that not only the SDP's representatives claim it. That's what the vice president of the Parliament, Mr. Shakespeare, says. You probably weren't in the hall when Mr. Shakespeare said that. But in order for you to respond to this replica of mine in quality, I'll be free, so I'll read you literally Mr. Shakespeare's words. So Mr. Shakespeare today said, "It wasn't the signatures for keeping the current rules on the Labour Act, it was the hidden referendum." It's actually a statement on a referendum on government. In this way, many citizens were drugged to seek a statement on the Government or against the Government under the cover of a referendum on the Labour Law. On the side that I agree with Mr. Shakespeare completely. It's a rare opportunity for me to agree with Shakespeare, but this time I agree 100%. I think Mr. Shakespeare has perfectly read the will of the citizens. The citizens have indeed come to this referendum to show their mistrust in this government. Now, if Mr. Shakespeare and I are reading this correctly, firstly it is not only true that it is claimed by SDP representatives but also by the Vice-President of the Parliament, then the answer to this question should not be to send this proposal to the Constitutional Court, but to respect the will of the citizens, even if they are mistakenly signed under the wrong referendum issue. This means that the government wants to respect the will of citizens to resign and call the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58472	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58473	Thank you very much. So, Mr. Track. I heard in this assembly, though, Mr. Shex, I wasn't because I wasn't here, but I heard Mrs. Ingrid Marinovic say it was a referendum on the government. If so, we've heard that there's a referendum on everything. That's exactly what the referendum question is, I guess it's not clear enough. How the law says it has to be clear. And I am now asking you if this is so about the Government, not the Government, so that it would be a consequence in order to be a positive outcome of the referendum he would mean that citizens to retain the applicable laws on the extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and cancel collective agreements or to be simplified to certain provisions of collective agreements unless a new collective contract is concluded forever if the parties to the agreements are not agreed. And now I'm asking you what that would be like for the government and what that would mean for the government. The two provisions of the Labour Act would remain in force if it were a referendum issue. And if we can have a situation in this country to ask one thing, that people don't sign up knowing why they're signing, because it's not clear to them on the notebook written above, if there's a whole media and union campaign that's speaking inaccuracy in relation to the amendment of the Labour Act, so from that we end up with the result that I don't know the referendum against the government, then I don't think it's an orderly state and it's not the implementation of the Constitution and the law in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58474	Thank you. And we have another replica, it is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58475	In my second performance, i.e. the replica, I said it was a referendum not on the government, but a referendum on hunger, but surely the Government has a lot to do with it. I would agree here with you to say that many people don't know the question that was, many don't know, it's true, but everyone knows the answer to that question, which is that they're looking for a referendum. You, Mrs. Lovrin, dear colleagues, say you don't know why they signed, what they thought, but I don't know if there's any motivational research in the Law of Referendum and whether there's a possibility of psychiatric skills against the citizens that you'd throw them out now, because you want to argue here that they weren't even aware of, they weren't responsible for what they're signing, as if they were guilty of something. I'm sure you have a list of those you might want to be with, and those you'd like to count on who signed it, but believe me, there won't be any more opportunities. You're still saying crown proof that the government is not against the referendum. The government is in favour of a referendum. It is a few times, pardon the expression, but indeed nebulise, but which is not your original, it stems from Madam Prime Minister. The government says it is not against the referendum because it has provided funds for the referendum. So please nice, there's a regular election coming up, there's no funding being provided, and the government says no, there's no insurance, there's no choice. That's your logic. However, it is perfectly clear that the Constitution is clear, the congenital norm when the signatures of the referendum are collected must be. The Organisational Committee in Article 8g of the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation of citizens is just talking about when the Organisational Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58476	Bring the end, your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58477	Ask for a referendum, it controls and directs the request, or... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58478	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58479	Thank you very much. So, colleagues of Anticevic, it is clear that the legislator's provision or the intensities of the legislator is precisely because of the fact that the abuses are being prevented from being put under anything, that the referendum question, or the question proposed for the referendum, is made clear to citizens who are being called for to sign, and therefore the provision of the law is that in every place where it is signed at the beginning, a referendum question must be clearly presented and written, I repeat, due to the disabling of possible abuses because remember someone can go into the collection of signatures for some question that you will not like, and then you will very much ask for all possible checks both of these forensics, and psychological and graphological etc. And let's not forget that in a regular check established up to about 100,000 signatures, there was no sign at all, so these citizens had no voter status. This was therefore to be determined by the government. What you said to repeat that the government is not against the referendum. The government has nothing to do with or against the referendum, because the referendum is being called by this Croatian Parliament, and it is the government's job to secure funds for the implementation of the referendum and to do what it did, to check legal assumptions in technical terms. Therefore, this Croatian Parliament will make a decision to call a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58480	Thank you. And now it is up to the proposer's representative, club president and vice president of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58481	The famous French Interior Minister Richelieu once told me to give me a letter from this man, give me his letter, I'll find a way, I'll find the words that will lead him to the gallows. And so, fellow Stazic, I am not comparing you to Minister Richelieu, nor myself to Minister Richelieu, nor to one who might be hanged, but to that that is why you have come to the wrong conclusion on the basis of my debate. On the basis of my debate, you claimed that I made it clear that the citizens were pleading for a referendum, a covert referendum against the government, where I therefore patented it, authorising it as my position. In the context of the determination when I was speaking in this assembly, in the context of why it went to check, why the signatures were being checked, I explained that the government went to check that it had received a warrant from the ministry, through the Committee on the Constitution, that the Ministry of Interior and Administration, therefore which are parts of the government, were to verify the number and credibility of the voters' signatures, and that there were very reasonable reasons for this, because there was already a number of information being made in the public that in the various signed places which were not even approved by the police administration, which were neither by the organisational committee, so I was saying that various abuses and irregularities were committed during the voter's statement, and I specifically said that there was no responsible organisational committee formed by the presidents of the five union branches, therefore it was not the organisational committee, but for these violations of the Law on the referendum were responsible for those activists who had been collected in those 779. You see, the committee for organising a referendum in its letter and request to the Croatian Parliament to request a referendum call stated that the statement was made in places in accordance with the decisions of the representative bodies in which applications were submitted to the competent police administrations, the places where the declaration was carried out were marked and visible, and each place had a list of imported lists and clearly divided horizontal lines marked by regular numbers. Therefore, by relying on the information that came to him from some of those who were in charge of collecting signatures, who gave incorrect information to the organisational committee, the Committee sends to the Croatian Parliament that everything was in perfect order, that the signatures were collected in places which the municipalities and cities of the representative bodies determined where the signatures could be collected and that these signatures were indeed collected there, and they did not. It has been established in a number of cases that the signatures have been collected in places that have not been approved. That's what we have from home affairs and administration reports, that the signatures, that some activists carried those lists to hospitals, schools, places they weren't meant to be at all. So, people are, these activists are and what I'm saying now, these activists are in their eager desire to collect as many signatures as possible, but their idea, their intention wasn't to collect signatures to declare the retention of the applicable legal rules on labour law or on those legal rules relating to the provisions on extended legal application in collective agreements and cancellation. I say to them, colleague Stazic, from what I was saying today it was an intention, it was the intention of these activists who collected these signatures with intent and intended not to be signatures to collect referendums about these legal rules on collective agreements but rather to do so with the intention of it being a referendum against the government. And that's one part of the public's understanding. And that's what my colleague and Richembergh used to say here that these signatures for this referendum were actually for a referendum on the government that was practical to deny government support and the government's fall. That's what I'm saying is that it was, it was a way of putting it under the cover of the referendum, that one part of those censusors, the signatories, in this way, pictured it to the citizens and the signatories and the public, it was actually about bringing down the government, to make the government fall, to resign with all those epithets that were given to the government from that one part. And that was why I say that there was one part of the covert referendum on the current government and when that referendum with that number, that this referendum with that number was supposed to show that the government enjoyed the mistrust of that, the people who signed it, that huge number of people, and certainly perhaps with the assumption of a referendum and an even greater number of people to enjoy mistrust. So it was one structure where it was part of those who organised the signing at each of these signed places and what was presented in public. To interfere, a large part of the voters pleaded that we are for, we know exactly and precisely, we are in order to prevent the adoption of changes to the Labour Act relating to collective agreements, but the good part really probably assumed and thought we want to give red light to the current government by our signature. That's why they keep showing up and nobody claims that the citizens were in no condition, that they didn't know what they were signing or what they were trying to do, but they had mixed feelings. The one who signed and looked exactly at it when it was signed whether or not you wanted to keep it should be taken with certainty that he knew precisely why he wanted the referendum. But what about the ones the others signed? We came here today eating that it's over 90 grand that over 90 grand are different manuscripts, 17 grand and some different manuscripts. It is evident that, at least for each, they are at least five citizens instead of personally signing that someone else wrote at least those printed letters, if not with the signatures. In this context, I was saying that there was a belief and today there is still a belief that it is not a statement of a referendum on the retention of existing legal norms and legal rules relating to collective agreements but that it is about the referendum wanting to show a commitment against the government. And to conclude, thank you for your patience, the Constitutional Committee remains with its proposal that the Croatian Parliament decide to ask the Constitutional Court to determine whether or not the Constitution has established the assumptions for calling this referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58482	Thank you. We have 1 correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58483	It's completely incorrect for me to get you wrong. Your statement is already filling the portals, which means you've been misunderstood by all the journalists who've heard it. But I totally understood you because you just said it again. The signatures were collected with the intention of being signed against the government. Very awkward for you. A huge number of signatures have been collected. If you think it's the signatures that were collected against the government that large number of signatures, so I agree with you, so I'm saying the same thing. A huge number of people sign this request for a referendum because it believes the government is being torn down because it wants to bring down the government. 717 thousand people want you out of power, so I'm telling you, we understand each other perfectly. And now I know why they want it. Because you're saying that insiders have established that some signatures have been collected in places that aren't meant for it, in hospitals or we don't know what. So how come when the signatures are brought in, as an employee of the Home Office... so that you've been stalking these union activists, so you just admitted it. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58484	Your Honor, your time is up. Unfortunately for you, they're still waiting a little longer, but they're waiting, so the way it goes on. You better hope so. Hope, after all, is dying. Let's move on with the debate. It is now up to the honourable representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58485	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, this hall is full of euphemism, mimicry, cynicism, filled from this morning until tonight, and it's clear to everyone it's clear. We're politicians. Don't think that all Croatian brains are concentrated here, God forbid this would be a Croatian mind. A lot of psychoanalyzing here has been called to Froma for sophists, proving, something like Zenon that Achilles is slower than a turtle, and you can't see what a dead end of a grandmother sees what they say, to see tangible clear facts. The facts are firstly that the Croatian Constitution as the highest legal act in this country guarantees the possibility of calling a referendum. On what terms? Under conditions that have been repeated a thousand times since this morning, under the terms of how Article 86(1) and (2) regulates it as an organizer or one who intends to organise a referendum collects at least 10% of signatures, valid signatures, the normal thing of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the law. And the board led by Vice President Shakespeare has determined that it has been fulfilled. And imagine now some strange logic and inversions, we get here i.e. This party is not concerned that 700 thousand are valid signatures, but that 90 thousand or 60 or 72 and 832,000 are not valid. So you reject what's not valid, so you get again the percentage of which your head obviously hurts, but that percentage says that all legal obligations are fulfilled, after all possible checks. And it's an honor to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Mr. Mlakar that they have so zealously, quickly and expensively checked and confirmed that everything is fine, that you have 16% instead of 10% of the votes in force, gentlemen. And you on behalf of those 1 or 2 or 3.5% or one and break percent, which you want to deny these 16%, and that's 10% enough. First of all, the legal preconditions are met. Secondly, you are dealing with an analysis of the impossible, an analysis of the psychological condition of those who came there to support this referendum. Whether they knew, or perhaps not, and perhaps not smart enough, they didn't come along, but decided for themselves, either someone told them or talked them into it at home or someone wronged a message on TV. And now endlessly from morning till tonight you're dealing with it by insulting the implications of all these people whether they were aware of what it was about. Because as Vice President Shakespeare or Mrs. Lovrin or the other said, it's not quite clear what it says there. But not because it's vaguely written, but because they didn't have a mental certificate to decide for themselves and to understand what it says or to be deceived by someone with a wrong message. But you see where that leads us. One impossible situation. You shouldn't call From. We can call on some Croatian psychologists such as Ramiro Bujas who founded a branch of psychology in Croatia but who was engaged in mental hygiene or cerebral hygiene. But where will that lead us? You have facts that say constitutional obligations have been met to organise the referendum. And there's obviously a political will that says he doesn't want to. And you say the arbiter will be the Constitutional Court. I wonder if at this point in the middle of the Croatian Parliament, his position as one of the three forms of government that should be in the same rank is being detached. So, legislative, executive and judicial power. It is not necessary to appeal to the authority of the professor of constitutional law, nor to philosophers, nor to school, to call upon common sense. Well, it's said, well, some people thought it was the government's decision. And worse for you. But also to make it clear, so of course it was not about Chinese but Croatian government, i.e. about her proposal. It is clear to everyone that it can't be clearer, or whiter, what would be said. No, the government of Sri Lanka was determined. About her suggestion of the implication or in conjecture of some logical view, and logic today has been so used here that the term has come out. The normal thing is that that's what it's all about. And here's what I like about a nice and special doctor who lifts this particular plate. He was saying today, he's specific to one thing, which is his stronger side of gesticulation than his articulation, so I have a human feeling... but let's just let it go, I'm not going to do that kind of analysis. But today you, sir, were arguing and you were even calling to see how you connected this to those pensions that were carried out by one authority that wasn't the SDP, made a decision by Mr Valentic, the HDZ prime minister, to take and the Constitutional Court decided to return. And he says you SDPs weren't returning. Come on, please, at least in this House, it's been answered five times in the current hour that nothing is due to the HDZ government, the government, and the Constitutional Court has ruled that it has ruled and normal to return, but it has returned the SDP to what you have taken. She was returning that power to the coalition. 14 billion. You know what, and it's okay to go back and the next government will return what you've been doing. Look, the worst thing that can happen to us, regardless of what we can do here, is outsmart, politicize, ideologies and end up in prehistory, the worst thing that can happen is that you have something in the Constitution, that it's guaranteed to you until the moment you meet the conditions, and then you don't. And why won't you? Because you've met the conditions. It is a paradoxical one, it is a Croatian paradox produced by the Supreme Legislative Body if its majority persists in such an attitude. It's all done, but we won't let you. Why, because you have fulfilled what the Constitution requires, and we thought you never will. And don't play with those amounts and money and that's no reason to talk about things democracy is suspended, although 175 million is too much money, but that's no argument for you, be assured of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58486	Thank you. And now we have five corrections first, and then we have four replicas. So it is the first correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58487	Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague says you may have a headache of 700 thousand signatures, which is not true. But watch your first sentences from a colleague who says you can't see tangible and clear facts. Be careful, there are no tangible and clear facts. And given your head, it seems to me that a colleague of mine is really hurting your head since your argument, I think we could all end up getting a headache. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58488	Thank you. The second is Honorable Representative Vladimir Seks, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58489	Thank you very much. With great sympathy, I have followed your presentation, but with even greater regret, I must argue that your claim that you are imputing to me, my colleague Lovrin and others is incorrect, and that in our discussions, we have declared those voters who pleaded for the opening of the referendum to be left behind, mental cases and so forth. It's a harsh untruth and a stint that you put in your mouth according to your hundred times already known to set one frame, one image, one big lie, and then the other, you prove to them that they're in a lie. You make something up, you make up something, you make up a structure, you make up one, and then you make up this picture that you have inside you, which you designed, then you project it, you impute it to others. You're thinking about those voters who signed. It's already in the sphere of one scientific discipline, psychoanalysis. You those voters who pleaded that they didn't really know what they were about but that they thought they were signing...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58490	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58491	And they actually signed for a change, keeping the rules of law. So what you think of yourself as bad about these voters is that you're trying to impute us to think ill of those people who pleaded...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58492	Thank you very much. Now it is time to correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58493	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm joining these corrections of the predecessors, but I'm sure he stuck one in my ear that says we insult these people. It's not true, we respect these people and we respect the laws, we respect the Constitution. But you've also offended me a little bit, and that's even with Article 214 because you've gotten into the field of diagnosis, and I'm telling you, I'm authorized to make a diagnosis. (Laughter) I'm just gonna stick around here right now. I could tell you that you look like a gunman to me, like bunkers, but I'm glad you resorted to psychoanalysis. Freud himself would envy you for that psychoanalysis, but psychoanalysis also needs honesty, but he also needs that thing you were talking about. (Laughter) Well, if you were honest, if you had that thing then you'd say that in 2003 you cut birth benefits, you reduced a lot of rights and all the possible things that we had to fix, etc. and heal the consequences of your mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58494	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58495	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wanted to correct the incorrect claim and quote exactly in the sense that Mr. Jurjevic was saying that there was a vote here on the mistrust of the government. So you're still persistent and hypocritically misleading both unions and the public. It means that you, as Mr. Maras said, have initiated a colleague of Maras, and I suppose you consider unions your holding company. I don't understand it at all, because the unions know very well what they're asking and what the referendum question is. But you did collect it after five days of what I said yesterday when and how when you decided to join the unions you began to deceive the public. So you called for something else, not what it says on the referendum issue. And please also, please, as per article 214 you have offended me when you are making a diagnosis because I am a doctor of veterinary medicine and I can give you a great diagnosis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58496	Okay. Everyone's going to make a diagnosis, and who's going to give the therapy? Let's move on. And finally Emil Tomljanovic, the correction of the incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58497	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who said, quote: "It is all fulfilled, i.e. all assumptions for calling a referendum have been fulfilled. Everything here is clear by the basis of the Constitution and the law." I say that's not true, and we've argued why it's not true. And for this correction, I've come forward to say the following. I'm surprised by my dear colleague Jurevic, so how can you even say it in your own explanation, he says, "Why do we have to listen to the professor of constitutional law here?" Don't the heads of the constitutional law department of Zagreb University and the head of the constitutional law department in Osijek have anything to say about this issue. And you know very well what they've said about it, and that's why in your explanation you're saying that we should simply ignore what they have in terms of calling a referendum right now, right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58498	Thank you. And now we have four replicas. The first in line is Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58499	You see, colleague Jurjevic, HDZ is trying to diagnose you because you're revealing things. However, the thing is that HDZ citizens have been diagnosed and that is their biggest problem. And they're just surprised and that's really their problem. Because it took a long time. It's been a really long time to admit it. Whatever HDZ was selling to the people worked, it went like an alva, and now suddenly it's not working anymore. It's not working. And whatever it is, whatever and whatever question is raised against HDZ is. Things have changed deeply by 180 degrees, and that's their biggest problem. And then there's logic, so now that they're miraculously affected, and that's the normal consequence of your abnormal condition, which is now your further problem. You, we've also heard here all morning that we've reduced labour rights with those earlier changes, and now you're just asking this question and your proposal that you've withdrawn, this embarrassing proposal that caused this referendum, you want to reduce those rights and you're attacking us ourselves that we've reduced rights. So please tell your colleagues what your state of consciousness is in? What are you talking about? You know what it is, you know what the problem is. Well, my colleague Jurjevic was perfectly elaborated. The problem with HDZ is what counterpart Jurjevic is and potentials in his debate. HDZ now has very limited possibilities. You have to choose between two options – between defeats in the referendum and debacles in the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58500	Dear MPs, I think the atmosphere is well relaxed and not poorly tolerated. But there's got to be a line after all. You have to stick to the subject. You said all that just not what the esteemed representative Marin Jurjevic said and you can't do that. Please! And secondly, pollomize with whoever's replica, not the other side of the MPs. So let's move forward with the reply to the replica, the honourable representative. All right. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative of Đurdjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58501	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Anticevic, here is the injured Rules of Procedure of Article 214. You called all of us here abnormal. You're using the same thing again. I don't know how no one called you out of the blue when you were out of the blue without consulting the unions. You didn't ask them. You said you had nothing to talk to them about. That was normal. I wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58502	Thank you. Let's go to the reply to the replica, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. I don't know what you're answering now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58503	Well, listen! Yeah, I mean, a lot of people around here are trying to do some pedicures, and some of them are working in fusing doctors, so they think that as Parliamentarians, they might be dealing with diagnosis here. This is about politics. Maybe I could be your professor from that, and you probably would be me in some kind of branch of medicine. There's the sub-class. Otherwise, I'd say you're doing less diagnosis and more prognosis. You're very sick, you know. You're very sick. And again here, what would be said in Split is thrown into a waltz, trying in an opera way to approach serious topics on important topics. From neither the deceased nor Freud nor all the branches of medicine will help you. It won't even help you tossing. I really didn't want to offend anyone here. Here's a colleague of mine who said that his only gesture was stronger than his articulation. If that's offensive, I apologize even though I think I'm right. But I didn't say anything ugly to anyone. I don't even think it's ugly in the war to run into bunkers or be in the woods, because only in Croatia some even want to change the results of World War II and imagine the wonders of cheering on those who have been defeated. The same is mentioned today in the context of this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58504	Thank you very much. You're out of time. Please, we'll do it now. Please don't throw it away. This way, we have three more replicas. Please stick to the exact one and replicate the one who spoke at the basic exhibition. Otherwise I'll be forced to interrupt and take away my word. Let's not do that, because this is no longer the right thing to do to replicate it, when it's simply not a replica. It's the honorary representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58505	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll stick to the presentation of my colleagues, Jurjevic. So two things. First, he mentioned that the signatures in his implicit part, so in his implicit role were also signatures against the Croatian government. In many cases, this is true, one part of the citizens is indeed from solidarity with the unions, but from disagreement with the government's policy signed the proposal for a referendum. It is very clear that HDZ is aware of the strength and dissatisfaction it is. In addition, 40% of Croatian citizens opposed the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO, so they managed to collect only 150 thousand signatures. You can imagine how against the current policy and this proposal is when they managed to collect 717 thousand signatures. In addition, the former coalition government proposed a reduction in income tax in 2003, and it had so low support among citizens that they were even against this proposal to cut income tax. At such a stage is now the HDZ government. And the fact that the amount of 175 million kuna is mentioned as the cost of the referendum should be as many times as mentioned, so many times it needs to be denied. So the election costs about 70 million kunas, a census of 100 and something, and a referendum could not cost 175 million kuna even if FIMA Media was doing marketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58506	Replica reply, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58507	As for the number of signatures collected, he is truly respectable, and the only thing I appeal for with great seriousness to approach that figure. I think that the unions as organizers have also offered some reasonable suggestions that might come along,... from this situation that turns into a political outsmart that no longer has anything to do with the very intention of signing a referendum. [[You don't understand.]] Unfortunately, as most of you have failed to follow these suggestions that have come to foreign unions, or insurances that will not be deceived in the future, and that is your decision, that is your political assessment. I said today, you know what you're thinking if you have that device in your head, but... Some other thing I'm saying again, in a figurative sense, how it's said in our people, to make it clear. [[You don't understand.]] And I think that your voters would accept it, this one to say it, that's what you'd like to say clearly, clearly that we're not for that referendum because our political assessment is of that kind and that kind, we are for it, but don't convince me that I'm against what I am. That's a little too much for the biggest logicists.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58508	Thank you very much. Replication away. Please interrupt the debate in the benches. It's next, the distinguished representative, Anna Lovrin, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58509	Thank you very much. Well, Agent Jurjevic, I see you've been watching a lot of fellow Milinkovic today, and I would say that both your gesticulation and voice articulation are quite impressive, but the argument seems somewhat less to me. You said with all that Vice President Shakespeare has already said in my defense of imputation, but you said here today that this is so clear that this is not about Sri Lanka and her government, so it is clear that it has been decided on the Croatian government and its proposal to amend the Labour Act. And here's the whole morning you've been telling us how we're manipulating something, we're making something up, because actually that referendum question has nothing to do with the amendments to the Labour Act. Then decide whether there is or not. And we are merely proposing today that the Parliament accept the Constitution proposal and to refer to the Constitutional Court's assessment whether the conditions have been met precisely because there have been changed circumstances and precisely because it has disappeared to call for citizens to collect signatures for the implementation of the referendum, as it says in the explanation of the request for a referendum, where it says nicely after voters have assessed that there is a need to call a referendum on amending certain provisions of the Labour Act. Well, then it would be good to finally decide if it's about the changes or if it's not about the changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58510	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58511	Dear colleagues are as clear to you as I am, people have been pleading on the Labour Act, on the proposed amendments, but I say once again that logic is telling you, your government has suggested this by giving you a negative assessment of this proposal that you, with so much enthusiasm, have imposed on citizens, who have rejected it, and so have you, they have given you implications and a negative assessment. The thing is, we don't need to lose ourselves in the mazes of great wisdom, about a very simple thing, which you know as well as I do, absolutely. So you got the unit, you fell. And now you're trying to get away with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58512	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58513	My colleague Jurjevic, it is in vain to prove to you the simple facts. First of all, it's a condition for citizens to collect 10% of signatures. Second, if citizens had met that condition, they had collected more than 10% of the signatures. Third, their request will not be respected because they have collected 10% of signatures and have met the requirement. As you explain it, I'm looking at the assembly, HDZ's laughing, getting to you, with them, it's causing a joyous mood, the fact that they're not doing the will of the citizens. Do not be surprised by your colleague Jurjevic, this is the continuation of the same policy for many years. '95, '96. The year of the citizens of Zagreb through the assembly, the representative body, elected four mayors, President Tudjman refused 4 mayors because he refused to allow the opposition situation. HDZ today does not want to allow a union situation in Croatia. He does not want to allow a people situation, he does not want to allow anything that is not in their HDZ will and in their HDZ interest. So if the citizens are looking for something, which the HDZ doesn't like, then it's not about the Constitution, the constitutional law, the 10% of the signatures, the citizens, and the arguments they simply won't. As long as they are in power, they will not respect the citizens. That's how it was in '96. That's how it is today. Don't try harder to prove to them what they can't figure out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58514	Here's Mr. Jurjevic, after all, decided to answer you. Here you are, dear representative Jurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58515	I think it's a fair position when you know who's standing in political views on this issue, and here we are different political options and why not. And we don't need plantings. Neither side. But let's be clear, let's not say one thing to each other, don't tell me what I think, say one thing, and you assure me not to say what I'm saying but think something third, etc. It's old-fashioned. It has nothing to do with anything anymore. My only regret is that my colleague Stazic is all of these examples that he has said that they are founded in some of our political past paintings in recent times. And a bad student is the one who repeats old mistakes. It's human and it's wrong, it's human and it's admitted, but it's something else. This is about me it seems like a simple attempt to make it impossible, to convince those of us who claim that all the conditions are fulfilled and to convince us that we are actually against the referendum, and we are in favour of the referendum. And I didn't insult any professor of constitutional law here but I said you weren't hiding behind them. And I sign 99% of what... Speak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58516	It's not said. Thank you. And now we have the last in an individual debate, the esteemed representative of Damir Sesvečan. Damir, you've waited. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58517	I did, really. Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here it is, since I am last in line for the debate, I will try to minimise it as much as possible because, first of all, this proposal is the conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of many things, but not only these conclusions but also things and topics that have nothing to do with this item of the agenda that we are discussing. But that is how our debates are going in Parliament, but I certainly want to repeat in my debate the argument that goes in favour of the adoption of the proposed conclusions of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system because I think it is important, given that each party in these discussions, therefore in the Assembly is making its arguments. So, I'm going to say that, and I repeat, the Organisational Committee for Voter Statement has determined that 813 thousand votes have been raised. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, on the basis of the report by the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of the Interior, has identified a number of 717 thousand 149 voters. Therefore, this is also the first conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system that was eventually agreed on by the Committee. As regards the second proposal for a conclusion thereof, it is therefore proposed that the Croatian Assembly, in accordance with Article 95 of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, ask the Constitutional Court to determine whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been fulfilled. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the opening of the referendum, given that there has been a new circumstance. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia withdrew on 3 September 2010 from the procedure a proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act with the final proposal for a law. It is therefore important to emphasise, regardless of how many times it is today, and it has been established and said exactly that circumstance that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has withdrawn the proposed law. Therefore, as many colleagues who have talked about this today, since the law is no longer in the procedure, so it is not current and as such does not legally exercise a referendum issue is undoubtedly related to Article 4 of that proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Labour Act. Therefore, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has just been proposed to suspend the extended application of the legal rules of collective agreements. Therefore, I believe that the right view is that the referendum issue must refer to a specific act or to a specific norm that is proposed to be amended or abolished. That it cannot refer to an abstract question or to a decision on the time-free validity of the law or some legal norm because it would actually mean that any law or legal norm could not change at all. I think that such an attitude and such an interpretation could neither be possible nor would be good because of some other situations that might arise in the future. As regards some of the views and interpretations expressed above and above all at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution as well as today in discussions on the need to apply the exclusive provision of the Article. Article 87(3) The Constitution and the provisions of Article 95 of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court which gives power to the Constitutional Court to establish, at the request of the Croatian Parliament, whether the assumptions set out in Article 86(1) to (3) have been fulfilled The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the opening of the referendum. I don't think those interpretations stand. In this context, the profession confirmed this, so it was said here that respected professors of constitutional law on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system spoke of it. So that the Constitution and constitutional law have equal power. Therefore, no doubt that the constitutional law is not lower-ranked or some technical regulation, that the constitutional law is not constitutionally in the same way or that it wants to be interpreted amongst other things and because it is adopted in the same way as the two-thirds majority as the Constitution. It is also not possible to challenge the Croatian Parliament's ability to address the Constitutional Court on this issue, so the question of meeting the assumptions for calling a referendum as cannot be denied the right, but also the constitutional court's duty to decide on the matter. Therefore, the conclusions of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to require the Croatian Parliament from the Constitutional Court to determine the fulfilment of the assumptions in relation to the opening of the referendum I consider constitutional, legal and justifiable and for this reason I will also support the proposals for the conclusions of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58518	Thank you. First, we have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58519	It's simply not exactly what you've claimed here that there must be a constitutional law on the Constitutional Court, so you've elaborated that they are the same rank that is not at all a question at this time, but it is a question and it is incorrect that you claim that in a specific case this intervention must take place. This is simply not true, and I will warn you why, because this question which the citizens have almost declared by plebiscite is persistently seeking to deny or degrade in one way or another, goes exactly in that direction to preserve the right of workers who are constantly at risk, whether to submit a legal proposal or to threaten and wait for an ambush, behind the bus when the unions or the whole thing is slightly divorced. So when does application and intervention and application of the Constitutional Court occur?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58520	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58521	When it is absolutely evident that this endangers the greater human rights guaranteed by our Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58522	And a replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58523	Comrade Sesvečan, you are in vain trying to explain to the SDPs that there is basically nothing to vote on, there is no referendum question and there is nothing they would carry out the referendum on. But it's not that they don't realize it, they realize it, but they still want to deceive the citizens. And they accept it further by way of tricking the citizens. So they just took advantage of this union initiative that they themselves admitted to trying in principle to impose some of their political desires and perhaps to get to power faster. That's why we shouldn't fall for these provocations of theirs, because as the citizens have been deceived, they're trying to deceive us here, too, but we understand that it's not going to work. I think the citizens have already read them. I think the unions should also understand that they used their social character initiative and today they admit that they are not interested in the referendum issue at all, but in principle it was a referendum against the authorities, so you simply can't trust people like that anymore. And you can't trust them anymore than they showed their true face when they were in power. Well, they were the first to introduce a practice in this country not to respect collective agreements, to ignore trade unions, to ignore and behave arrogantly towards conversation, partnership dialogue. And now they're giving lessons what should be and how it should be. Well, I don't think there's much more hypocrisy in Croatia than we've heard today than the SDPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58524	Thank you. And another replica of the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58525	You claim to be a colleague that the referendum question cannot be whether to uphold a law or some legal norm, because to be possible then you say that some legal norms could never change at all. But that's where you're wrong. Because imagine we have the Penal Code and there is a norm in it, who abuses authority and the position will be punished. And now imagine that the bill promoter of the government, proposes to amend that law and says, the norm is changing and it is said, who abuses the position and authority, if he is not a member of the HDZ will be punished, imagine. And, of course, citizens are starting a referendum and they want to remain an old norm because they don't want a new norm. And you claim that would be impossible and such a referendum would not be normal, would not be valid, would not be constitutional. So, getting a coworker is completely wrong. We have here one legal norm of the Labour Act that workers want to keep, the government wants to change. To whose harm? Well, to the detriment of those same workers. And the workers defend themselves through their union associations, organise a referendum and don't let you change it, because they don't let you step on them and go against them, because there's already plenty of what you've done to them in seven years. And that's their right to defend themselves in a referendum, at least until the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58526	Thank you very much. I can get to the word now. Your Honor, we've created a more peaceful atmosphere. You've been trying for centuries. But it won't work. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58527	So let me say something in response to the replica rather than that this is again known manipulation, namely in the style that Mr. Stazic manipulates otherwise in his performances, and this time he wants to cast out the real truth. And I'll just remind you that we all the time and he forgets what it was, in fact, a referendum issue, and here we're talking about the government's trust, and the referendum question is actually, "Are you in favour of keeping the applicable legal provisions on extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and cancelling collective agreements?" Therefore, this was just the case in its debate on Article 4 of the proposed Law amending the Labour Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, which was withdrawn by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, this proposal no longer exists, it is legally nonexistent, and therefore, in my opinion, it is impossible to call a referendum on something that does not exist. We would de facto call a referendum on a question that no longer has anything to refer to. So that's all I said, and I think from the constitutional and legal point of view, that's what it stands for.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58528	Thank you. And now for the final 5 minutes on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58529	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I think we've exhausted not only the time but the patience of our citizens, that they are more determined after this debate. That's why very briefly. Therefore, the time has come to apply the provision of Article 86 which we cannot discuss here whether to apply it or not, since the legal and constitutional reasons are met, those contained in Article 86. Here's maybe a very short observation, one more time. Therefore, the sustainability of the referendum, i.e. at all, of the initiative and the collection of signatures, let alone to be called because HDZ considers that there is no basis because there is no legislative proposal. A legal proposal could have been one of these types, but none of us would have dared to joke at all, such a legal proposal as a parliamentary representative. Was it then a very valid condition, or would you then insist on your argument against the referendum? No, that's not a good reason. If he even finds it formally necessary to exist one because I think it's a completely wrong interpretation, it's a layku not by some constitutional acquaintance clearly, then what about this norm is therefore in all those issues that the Parliament can discuss. The Parliament brings norms to the existing laws and to those we have and which we will have tomorrow and that we will change, that something may happen or that something may not happen. Such are norms and content that something changes or doesn't change. After all, we also have a ban in the Constitution, we have a prohibition in the Constitution of Croatia's integration into some Balkan and Yugoslav integration. Perfectly clear. Keep going. Therefore, the fact that the Law on the Referendum and other forms of personal participation of citizens in Article 8g speaks about the fact that the organisational committee determines that a 10% voter of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia is to be declared on the need for a referendum to be called, it will refer the request to the President of the Croatian Parliament for a referendum. The organizer was still so benevolent, and even if we had allowed this to happen to the government itself through the ministries, that this one controls what the Organisational Committee has already done and referred as relevant documentation because it is the only one who is authorized to do so. We disagreed because there was no fear of such a number. The government wanted to use two of its ministries, both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Administration. That's where they've been trying, obviously, and the HDZ isn't grateful to them or they'll be grateful to them, but here's the thing people have done their best. Now the HDZ isn't enough either, and it wants to put this whole thing past the Constitution, transfer the ball to the Constitutional Court. Gentlemen of the HDZ, when you are so convinced of these views you have tried in all possible ways, beyond every logic and logical conclusion, in all four basic forms of logical conclusion from certain thesis to draw such conclusions, then the question arises why you seek the intervention of the Constitutional Court. If you are so brave and so convinced of what you are saying today, that with great will, with the means provided, you so much want a referendum, but here you are so many legalists, so many respecters and fans of the Constitution that here the Constitution does not allow you to do so. And you'd be so happy to call the Constitution. Do you also need the Constitutional Court to intervene again for such a purpose? Has the Constitutional Court not already celebrated several decisions? Do you need another glory and a Gaudu to contribute to it? I think these are serious things and leave the Constitutional Court alone from your affairs. Be brave, here we encourage you to do so, set a date for the vote on this issue, and the area is the protection of human rights. We have been accused here today of reducing labour rights during this period, and now it's defending itself with a referendum, and you're attacking a certain standard. So where's the logic? So when there's no truth, gentlemen, there's no logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58530	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58531	Please specify the date of the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58532	We have one correction to an incorrect quote, but I'd just like to say that it must have been a mistake for the record, because you said first you set the date of the election, and then the date of the referendum, so you would look at it both ways. ... Correction of incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. One, I'm just correcting an incorrect quote, and I think it's the essence of everything. After this debate, the citizens are all clear, according to counterpart Anticevic. I think that after this debate, there is nothing clear to the citizens, and if they understand something and what should be made clear to them that they are extremely manipulated and abused by the SDP which is only interested in power and nothing else. Why are you fellow Members so afraid of the Constitutional Court? I don't get it. You're saying we're afraid of what? We ask why you fear the Constitutional Court and the decisions of our Constitutional Court. So let's trust our institutions. And finally, no matter how much you call a cow's tail a leg, the cow only has four legs. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58534	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the Proposer... Please, I can't talk any more than you do. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Finally, on behalf of the applicant, the esteemed representative Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58535	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the end of this marathon debate, I'd say the following first. This debate showed one diapazon of different views and positions and opposition, each with its argument, its reasons and political and constitutional, legal and it is fully, clear and transparently expressed in the assembly. I would also give recognition to the Organising Committee of five union centres that have accepted that the ultimate democratic means and democratic constitutional instrument, the referendum seeks to protect the workers' rights, the interests of its members, fighting for collective agreements for the best in collective agreements. Fighting that collective agreements are not changed has chosen a way for the Organisational Committee to go with the referendum, to demand a public statement, to make a statement in the referendum and to prevent the adoption of changes to the law to be intervened in the system of collective agreements in the Labour Act. It is a democratic gain in our country that in one of the most democratic ways is the referendum expressed the will of citizens and in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Law on referendums, it has also begun to declare citizens to call a referendum with a goal, a fundamental goal of preventing legislation to be intervened in part of the labour legislation relating to collective agreements. And that statement was made. The number of signatures required after all checks was collected. And now we have found ourselves in a situation where one side of the assembly says there is nothing more, no less than a referendum should be called immediately and gives legal reasons which should be reflected by the argumentation of the political argument, especially why a referendum should be called immediately. The other side of the assembly, the ruling coalition has a different view. He believes that the voter's will should also be respected, and here I also express that the Committee on the Constitution, its majority in the Committee on the Constitution, is that it wants to reflect the will of Croatian citizens, the will of the voters who were to call the referendum. But they were for him with that goal and to that end, to that extent, until the time when they apparently wanted to prevent the adoption of the Law amending the Labour Act relating to collective agreements, their termination, their validity. When the withdrawal of the Labour Act was clearly a changed situation, that the legal framework was maintained, the legal rules of all the provisions of the Labour Act relating to collective agreements, in general, the existing legislation of the Labour Act, then we asked one question whether the basic objective and purpose of the government withdrawing the amendments to the Labour Act and that it was the Union's aspirations and those who also the citizens who signed were pleading for a referendum to preserve the existing positive Labour Act. Is this desire fulfilled and whether their political will has been done by withdrawing the Labour Law? That's why we said in that dilemma, given that the Constitutional Court under Article 129. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia oversees the constitutionality and legality of the state referendum, and is also to follow Article 95 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court may require the Constitutional Court to assess whether the assumptions provided for in Article 97(1) to (3) are met. It's the constitution to call a referendum. Therefore, in the control of constitutionality and legality, the Constitutional Court under Article 129. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court determines whether or not they have met the assumptions for the opening of the referendum. The will of the ruling coalition, the majority of the ruling coalition, towards an assessment that the Constitutional Court, with that argument that we are dealing with here, is that under Article 81. The constitution is taxing are the numbered part of the Croatian Parliament. And in the part of the Croatian Parliament as far as the law is concerned, the law is passed. In the part-round of the Croatian Parliament, it would be possible to call a referendum on any issue from the Croatian Parliament's section. But in the part of the Croatian Parliament, it is not a question that needs to be answered whether you are to maintain the existing positive legal norms, regulations, laws, parts or the whole of a single law. It is not a question that is in the part of the Croatian Parliament. There are a large number of those who represent the legal position of experts in constitutional law, numerous politicians. There's a very strong foothold for that. Therefore, the Committee on the Constitution and its majority remain with its proposal and proposes that the Croatian Parliament draw two conclusions. The first conclusion is that the condition set out in Article 97(3) has been met. The constitution, that there are 10% electoral bodies, voters who support the referendum. And second, that the Croatian Parliament requires the Constitutional Court to determine within 30 days whether the assumptions for calling the referendum have been met. If the Constitutional Court, if the Croatian Parliament is likely to take a decision at the vote tomorrow to ask the Constitutional Court to determine whether a referendum has been called, whether the assumptions for the opening of the referendum have been met. Then the Constitutional Court will need to answer that question within 30 days. If the Constitutional Court says that the assumptions have been fulfilled, as do any decision by the Constitutional Court, they should respect and respect, and the Croatian Parliament after that is the only thing left for it to call a referendum. And if the Constitutional Court says no assumptions are met, then the referendum will not be called by the Croatian Parliament. So I would like to conclude that, on the basis of truly democratic debates and respecting both the will and the assumed will of those who signed a referendum from the union centres, the Committee on the Constitution sought to, by sticking to the Constitution and the law, propose one proposal which was disputed on the one hand, criticised, on the other hand accepted, accepted by the Government and voted on the fate of these two proposals. One is the proposal for opposition, the proposal for a conclusion that the Croatian Parliament will call a referendum. And the second is the proposal that the Croatian Parliament asks the Constitutional Court to determine whether the assumptions for calling the referendum have been met. The withdrawal of the Labour Act, in this new situation both the Government and the trade unions have found themselves in a position to look together for a way out of this social conflict, in a dialogue, and the withdrawal of the Labour Act has opened that possibility of dialogue between the government and the union, and good initial steps have already been made in that dialogue. Good initial steps in the dialogue between the government and trade unions, certain trade unions, have been made to encourage moves and steps. And we would really all be the most expensive thing to continue this dialogue, and that dialogue would bear one fruit, one social dialogue, and it was those ideas to come to a consensus, to a social dialogue that would take place in the assembly, and it's not to be excluded. But let us not easily disqualify that the parliamentary majority's proposal to establish the Constitutional Court is in line with what is stated in the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, and in the Constitution, that it determines whether the assumptions are met. To qualify it with such, such a pseudogumentation that leads to irreconcilable conflict situations being transferred from this assembly to the entire Croatian public. The way of dialogue that both the government and the unions have gone is a good way, and we need to open up the door to that path in the dialogue, the social consensus, to come up with a solution that will satisfy all the social partners. And let's not disqualify either the argument, nor the reasons given by the opposition and their reasons have a basis, but also at least the same value, validity has both arguments and political, both legal and constitutional, as is the ruling position. I therefore declare that this debate is to be concluded and that the Parliament will tomorrow make a final decision on whether to accept the proposal for an opposition to call an immediate referendum, or whether it will accept the proposal for a majority of the Constitutional Committee's conclusion to request the Sui Genis intervention of the Constitutional Court. I, clearly on behalf of the parliamentary majority, propose on behalf of the committee that the Parliament accept tomorrow's vote by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58536	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58537	He literally says: "It is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament to decide whether you are in favour of retaining any existing legal norms." And that's incorrect. That is, in the activities of the Croatian Parliament, and this is what the Croatian Parliament does all the time, with each amendment and addition of the law, the Croatian Parliament answers the question of whether it is to maintain or to amend the current norm. And in the case of amendments and the addition of laws, all those who vote against amendments and the addition of laws decide that the existing legal norm remains. So this is just one sophism that seeks to avoid responsibility and disrespect the will of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58538	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and tomorrow we'll vote. It's not over yet. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions. Start tomorrow is at 9.30. I'm still warning you tomorrow that it's 12 o'clock and the vote and I'm asking you all to be here in the morning at 10 and 12. We begin with the 3rd item of the agenda, and this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment, first reading, P.Z. No. 598. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-23-0.u58539	2. Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, a political system relating to the calling of a referendum on the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act with the Final Proposal for a Law. The debate is the conclusion. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system proposed two conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on the first proposal for a conclusion that reads: 1. "The Organisational Committee for Voter Statement on the need to request the opening of the referendum has submitted a request to the Croatian Assembly for a referendum on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Labour Act with the Final Proposal for a Law for which at least 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia have been found to be supported by the Ministry of the Administration and the Ministry of Interior in accordance with Article 87(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia." Please include and vote on the proposed conclusion proposal. The result? The proposal for this conclusion was accepted by the majority of votes 124 votes for, one abstention and 6 against. I am voting on the second draft conclusion, which reads: "The Croatian Parliament will in accordance with Article 95. The constitutional law of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia shall request the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to determine whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been fulfilled. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for its opening with a referendum question, therefore, quotes the question: "Are you in favour of retaining the applicable legal provisions on extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and cancelling collective agreements? Since it's September 3rd, 2010. The Government of the Republic of Croatia withdrew from the procedure of the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act with the Final Proposal of the Law." Please engage and vote on the proposed conclusion. Please, have we voted? Yeah. Conclusion? The proposal was adopted by 77 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 55 against.
