ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54326	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. I warmly welcome you all. We're going back to work. At 10 o'clock, we'd vote, so I'd like the representatives of the clubs to make sure that we have the quorum and not just the quorum, but something more. Until then, we will move on to the agenda point - Report on the work of the 2009 Public Advocates' Attorney-General: The Ombudsman delivered the report on the basis of Article 8. The U.S. Attorney General Act. The government delivered an opinion. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Attorney General Jurica Malcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54327	Thank you very much. Mr. President, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. This is the fourth report I file in this session. The report, as usual, is quite extensive and prepared according to the standard and in the Assembly already known methodology, so it does not need to be overexplained, and any clarifications can be made during or at the end of the debate. Just two introductory notes. First, the changes in the scope of the Ombudsman and the way in which the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination took place, and according to which the Ombudsman became the central authority for the implementation of the law, did not significantly affect this report, since it will be submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Ombudsman on the implementation of the law before the summer leave. However, given that this particular report on the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination on Problems of National Minority Members in this Report has only been processed in relation to administrative treatment in areas where a significant number of their complaints have been recorded. Secondly, the note that should always be given is that although the report is based on other sources of knowledge, however, the main and primary source of complaints is citizens on the illegal and irregular work of administrative bodies. It is therefore also necessary to say again that the report cannot be considered as a complete picture of the human rights situation or the overall functioning of administrative bodies and services. It is by nature critical because according to the law it is necessary to point out and warn about the occurrences of violations of rights and some critical points in the functioning of the system, and to improve and improve the situation. In this year's report, we also pointed to some trends that are referred to by an analysis of the citizens' complaints. First, the number of complaints is slightly higher by about 100ths than in 2008, but continues to be reduced by the number and share of complaints related to the cases resulting from the war and the disintegration of the former state, according to expectations already announced last year. As you know, it is mainly about the cases of the restoration of housing care for the return of temporary property, then part of the pension, the conqualification of status rights, etc. According to our assessment this year, about 25% of such complaints are in a much smaller proportion than they have been in recent years. For example, in 2007, there were more than 50% of such complaints, and earlier years it went to 75%, respectively. Of course, it should be said that such a reduction is expected and normal, given the course of time since war and integration. But because of this passing of time, there is still a number of pending cases, especially the difficult cases that we have provided in the report, especially where it is not just a matter of financial resources, but of failures and weaknesses in the work of the service. Since it is mainly refugees and returnees among which it is most members of Serbian nationality, the problem is also relevant from the point of view of the negotiations on the accession of the European Union, Chapter 23, which we have warned in the final evaluations and, of course, that it would not be good for the overall efforts and financial resources and the political will that Croatia has shown to address these issues, to question individual weaknesses. And as the second trend that we think is significant, it is a reduction in the number or share of those complaints that we have assessed, both in relation to the complaint and in relation to the judiciary. According to our assessment, this is primarily due to a reduction in the number of complaints about the length of administrative and judicial proceedings. I note that as a rule, when overstepping is not only legal but also reasonable deadlines, such complaints are considered to be based. In the report, we stressed that this is, to some extent, the result of improved awareness, but in the administration, this is the result of better communication of the administration with citizens. A long-standing warning that communication with citizens should be better achieved, so in terms of the General Administrative Procedure Act, the majority of the central authorities of the state administration have finally produced results. And now there's a smaller number of those who talk to us because they can't get any information about their cases in front of the authorities. I note that, by the end of the application of the Administrative Procedure Act, this article ceased to apply. He's not in the new law. However, I hope that the administrative bodies will continue to communicate better with citizens. In the courts, this is the result of a reduced number of complaints about the length of proceedings and measures to improve the urgency and resolution of old cases conducted by the Supreme Court, as well as the increasing use of citizens, so I would also say to the lawyer of the formal remedy, i.e. requirements for the right to trial within a reasonable period within which citizens may also make compensation, but also the setting of a time limit for making a decision. Despite this improvement, even an unreasonablely long duration of proceedings remains a major problem in traditional areas where we have been pointing to this for years. I'll do it again. That's what we said in the report. These are property-legal special denationalisations where a number of items of course have been going on since '97. A year. Then, it is a renewal especially in the second-degree procedure, partly in the area of construction, then pension insurance when it comes to rights under interstate contracts. So, areas where the situation has been critical for years. I would also point out that the complexity of the procedure, the shortcomings in regulations, human and material deficits can be and are objective reasons but they can justify certain services. However, the state, which is repeatedly highlighted in the European Court of Human Rights rulings, is nevertheless responsible for the excessive duration of the proceedings. We also warned in the report that the new regulations, primarily the new General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Administrative Disputes, will not, of course, solve these inefficiencies and impunity in itself. Without significant changes regarding personnel, organisations, and methods of work, the problem of urgency can become even greater in view of the new tasks that these laws impose. You who are more concerned with this, you know that citizens will now be able to address protection under the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Administrative Disputes not only when it comes to administrative acts, but also when it comes to the conduct of public-law bodies, in a sense and in a sense, to the protection of their rights against public services, and that means communal and others. This will greatly increase the number of cases and should be taken into account. In this regard, we also highlighted some of the recommendations that are still current today, if not more than before, and this is the need for up-to-date treatment in so-called. triage. This means in the first phase of the procedure in order to determine the regularity of the request as soon as possible because not only this year but also all years have noticed that we have a phenomenon that requests for incompleteness are rejected after five, six or more years, not to mention the months that pass. This is a necessary condition for any order to be achieved properly. Secondly, measures and responsibilities needed to be strengthened in the silence of the administration, and what we stress each year is a solution to the measure of appeal whenever possible. So in order to prevent the recurrence, returning to, repeated return to the re-trial, which is still of the largest number of long-term cases the biggest problem. There is one more note, and that is that the Law on General Administrative Procedure is more summary than was the current law and it contains really the most important provisions. In some ways, many countries also compensate for the codes of work of state and administrative officials. We have a code like that. However, it seems to me that a good recommendation would be if it were also revised in accordance with a new law that was more summary than it was before and the code allows many of these things to be resolved, which should not be in the legal text. As for the length of court proceedings and despite the assessment of some improvement, there is still an excessively long duration of proceedings still the main problem in civil matters, so in the litigation procedure, especially in large courts where the issue of Zagreb is exceptional, but also in front of the Administrative Court, which is only before the reform and where cases last three years, I would say even on average which, of course, is not in line with the administrative resolution in which the administrative bodies have to resolve things within two months, and then these things last for three years at the Administrative Court. In this respect, the data on the number of requests established as a sum of financial compensations charged in this respect by the state budget, but even more than the fact that only post-festum acts on a reasonable basis, so when rights are already injured, it speaks convincingly in its contribution to earlier proposals and recommendations on the need for significant strengthening of the judicial administration, in particular the Supreme Court and staff and material investment for that purpose. In this part, I would also add that it is not in this introduction, nor in the report, that it is difficult to see that we are still dealing with, unfortunately, the fundamental issues of the functioning of the administration and the judiciary and their direct relationship with citizens, and still not enough or at least less of the key issues that are also important for reforming and improving overall efficiency. First of all, I think of the quality of work and decisions both administrative and judicial bodies, in which sense it should constantly improve the system of monitoring analysis and evaluation, i.e. valorisation. So, for both the administration and the judiciary, that goes for it. Of course, this refers especially to the administration where many execution deficits and other administrative functions are visible. Therefore, monitoring the situation, proposing measures and legal solutions, administrative inspection, functions in which the reform should lead to significant improvements. We have, of course, also stated that, for successful reform, it is necessary and some general conditions in both the system and the environment, but of course both the consciousness and the political will and the systematic action. The key to management is never enough to point out that expertise, ability and professionalism, and then impartiality becomes at least too heavy, if not the exclusive criteria for reception and advancement in the service. Liaison with this and in practice needs to be consistently conducted at all levels, of course there are state and local authorities, but including top administrative officials. Therefore, political similarities and personal loyalty must not be determined, take precedence over the criteria of continuity and professionality. Secondly, it is necessary to complete and complete the service system, not only by adopting the Law on Salaries, but also by other accompanying regulations and, of course, by establishing a stimulating system of rewards and promotions. This year too, we point out that strengthening the central body is important, so the Ministry of Administration, which is also still quite deficiting. And of course, but that's not the time right now, because the obstacles are a large number of local units need decentralisation that you don't need to talk about again because you all know what this is about. As far as the judiciary is concerned, the report has been reported promising shifts, unfortunately after a lot of lost time. Positive shifts are reflected mainly in better legislative but also institutional frameworks to not only talk about jumping institutions, we welcome all the solutions we have stood up for years and made recommendations to this Parliament. Finally, in our amendments to the law, it has found its place, which is to strengthen the judicial administration, strengthen the Supreme Court and its president, change in relation to the VSV and objective criteria for the appointment and promotion of judges. We believe and hope that this will also reflect on the timely sum and quality of the necessary judgments within the appropriate deadline, which will be a key criterion for the success of the reform, of course and not only for opening which, chapters that are likely to be very convenient, but also for closing Chapter 23. This occasion should also draw attention to restrictions and obstacles that, in a sense, make it difficult to implement reforms more fully. A certain restriction is objectively an inherited personnel structure, from the time that individuals entered the system, not only according to the criteria of expertise and ability, but also political loyalty and belongings, and in this sense the system is in a way that controls, monitoring and elimination should be carried out continuously. In particular, it should be stressed that continuity and judicial functions is a significant liquid, it means that there is no re-election, that political bodies do not decide on it, but that does not mean untouchability until the end of the 70s, therefore the system of elimination and those who cannot meet quality standards and minimum standards of impartiality must be introduced. In addition to these assessments relating to administration and justice, which are the contents of Chapter 23 of the report, we discussed in more detail some other areas, in which the complaints of citizens were numerous, or pointed to some issues of general importance. Some of these parts of the report, according to our assessment, would deserve apart from a general debate at the tide, where it is necessarily limited, and special discussions on some parliamentary working bodies. So the report is more detailed, and I am not going to talk about them, but only in a brief indication, problems in the prison system, then the need to strengthen internal control in the Ministry of the Interior, so to strengthen and standardise the powers and independence of internal control and standardisation of procedures in the complaints of citizens and in the case of abuse of power, the problem of Roma status rights and the acquisition of citizenship, then problems in applying official legislation, so this year and a little bit on issues of social and legal security of the poor and the weak, so socially excluded. We have also touched on the issue of the conduct of the Croatian Bar Association, and the need for supervision of its entrusted public powers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the end of the day, only two sentences on the terms of the institution's work. We all know that this year, or 2009 there was no increase in budgets. Our work was difficult by getting new tasks as a central body for the prevention of discrimination, but we did not get the means to do so, and this had to be done with existing personnel and under existing material conditions. As far as our space is concerned, I would say that we finally solved at least a temporary solution, because we've got space on Petriæ's street, so we're in two places right now, but those two spaces meet the needs of the Attorney General, and I have to say that the government has jumped those funds from the current reserve. As for the conclusion of the institution's further development and the need to pass a new law, I will not mention anything special about it. You also heard yesterday, following the constitutional changes which, of course, we welcome with regard to the role of the Ombudsman, will be approached by the power of the Constitution, the change, or the adoption of a new Law on the Ombudsman. Our proposal is only to include a stronger Committee on Human Rights in this job of passing a new law and to take into account the documents prepared in cooperation with UNDP and NGOs, which is one project to strengthen the institution of the Ombudsman and analyse the rationalisation of the human rights system. Here, like I said, thank you for your attention. Me, we'll be obvious if it's necessary during or after the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54328	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54329	Mr. President, Mr. Attorney General with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. For every government that holds on to its citizens, who cares about them whether they voted for it or not, a report by the Ombudsman is a very important document that is not easily bypassed and not to be ignored. It is important for this very reason because it speaks of the state of human rights in the country, the protection of the rights of citizens and citizens and their ability to make everyone feel equal to the law. It also speaks of system failures and indicates what should be changed. Anyone well-intentioned and one who cares about Croatia being a country for him is a valuable report. The 2009 Ombudsman's report, as well as his reports from earlier years, set an example of the Parliament's quality reporting. It is based primarily on complaints from citizens, with the application of the reporting methodology, comprehensiveness, justification for the facts which the Ombudsman has come to during the civil proceedings, this report represents a significant indication of the state of human rights, but also of the behaviour of the competent state authorities. And that must all be better and in the interest of the citizens. If citizens cannot exercise their rights and legal interests within a reasonable period of time regardless of any other circumstances, and the fact is that they cannot, then it is a violation of human rights. This is what the State is responsible for. Indirect non-functioning of the state administration unnecessarily burdens such a burdened judiciary because citizens in the last instance address their problems to one of the courts. Many of these disputes ended with a ruling on financial compensation due to the system's slowness, which means that the system's ineffectiveness is again paid by citizens out of their pockets. It is high time to start reforming the state administration and make it cheaper, more efficient and in the service of citizens, which is not a priority for which we get confirmation daily. Instead of a clear reform of the state administration, it is going to take the acquired rights of those employed in that same state administration. Continuingly in his reports, the Ombudsman is very systematic and seriously alerted to the unsatisfactory functioning of the state administration, etc. the silence of the administration, i.e. the infinite annulment and recurrence of proceedings, even when the resolution is not only justified but also laid down by law as a rule. That is why we consider it extremely important to study and to really begin to apply the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in both the previous and the report, and to ensure the conditions for administrative matters and the needs of citizens who seek to exercise their rights to the state bodies within a reasonable period of time. As difficult as it is for the government to accept criticism and move to solve the problem, not to push your head into the sand the consequences are different. With a very important warning, I consider part of the report in part of the administration and citizens important for the credibility of the government and its willingness to deal with corruption. I quote: "The politicisation of the management layer is one of the causes of clientism and political corruption, and thus riots, impunity, arbitration and irresponsibility towards citizens. As long as the necessary depoliticalisation of the administration is not consistently carried out and the only criteria for the appointment of key management posts are not the ability, expertise, professionalism and ethics to expect a more important quality management and a different relationship as well as the responsibility of the administration towards the citizens." With these two sentences, the Ombudsman pointed out the key problem of the state administration, which is politically similar, excessive, inefficient and corruption of the state administration's proclivities. The task and obligation of the Ombudsman is to base its assessments and proposals on facts without bias equal to any political option because its main concerns are Croatian citizens and citizens, their rights and their security, their trust in institutions and faith that they will exercise their rights. But what is the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia when the prime minister in the current hour says there will be no amendment to the Labour and Elimination Law, and within five days she sends the law to a procedure where she speaks completely different, or abolishs collective agreements. Where, then, is the safety of the citizens when the head and most responsible person of the executive authority functioned according to the principle of saying so of origin? A country where labour rights and their protection are at an unacceptablely low level in which labour disputes last longer than working days is a country that does not lay down enough to protect workers' rights. A new blow to workers' rights is a blow to the human rights of Croatian citizens. I'm going to go back to the judiciary I mentioned, and I'm going to think of it as a load of lawsuits because someone in the state administration doesn't do their job for which they've been paid. And so the burdened judiciary is the subject of a large number of complaints from citizens because the impunity of courts and the longevity of judicial proceedings is a major problem for citizens. Such slowness in solving cases through every reasonable measure is a difficult violation of the right of citizens and damages society as a whole. The long-term nature of the proceedings, the circumvention of the order of cases, the uncertainty as to where the verdict could be resolved regardless of the outcome leads to doubt about the fairness of the proceedings and opens up a space for corruption. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the key problem of this country is that the ruling political elite supports a system in which the socially threatened, the poor are hardly or very hard to fight for their constitution and the law guaranteed rights while others, rich and socially powerful, easily achieve their interests at times, and often at the expense of the weaker ones. And I fully agree with the evaluator's assessment that this is not in Croatia's inevitability and that it is inadmissible for the rule of law state to divide into poor and weak and rich and powerful in front of state bodies. As president of the Assembly Committee on Presentations and Appeals, I daily face such problems of Croatian citizens who are desperately seeking help from us to protect them in the exercise of their rights where they do not see a way out of the situation, where the longevity of the proceedings challenges their existence. The question of the weaker ones and those who are rich and powerful and their relationship from one last example, which is a question of one building POS in Split, in which nearly 3 years does not solve a key problem from one side of the tenants who bought apartments and on the other side of a very powerful entrepreneur who is on their building with allegedly all valid permits inaccessible boiler room above the head, bedrooms where children sleep. That's what the Attorney General is talking about, that's what we need to talk to each other about, that's what we can't allow. In his report, the occupier warns of an increasing number of complaints against police behaviour and has been doing so continuously through its previous reports for the past 5 years. Also, the attorney general simply does not receive quality answers from the Ministry of the Interior on the resolution of the public's representations of over-authority, the violation of police law, that things have come to this point to address the Committee on National Policy and Internal Security with the desire to regulate new amendments and additions to the Police Act the system of control of over-response in the police, or the Ministry of Interior. Because the examples and answers he's been getting from the interior control of the Home Office for years are that they're not tragic would be ridiculous. You all remember very well the recent example of police brutality in which a 20-year-old young man was beaten up at a gas station in which three police officers were brutally beaten him, and the reason for the police was that he tripped and hit a coffin. Such examples are too much. What the Ombudsman warns is that it is necessary to restore citizens' confidence in the institution of the police and the Ministry of the Interior, definitely to stand alone, improve and rules to set up a way of resolving complaints within the Ministry of the Interior system where the Department of Internal Control, other than having to be independent, must open up the possibility that supervision of police officers can also be done by citizens. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this report is very important, because it opens our eyes to all and points to very serious violations of our fellow citizens' rights, and I do not know how many times it suggests measures that would quickly and effectively correct many wrongs that are not small, that we face daily and that we meet other citizens feel on their backs. The SDP will support this report and insist that it not only remains a letter on paper, because the government does nothing to accept suggestions and suggestions and to do something actively to protect human rights that are being violated by the failure of the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54330	Thank you. We have two corrections. First correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54331	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague, Dragovan, incorrectly said that the government was abolishing collective agreements. The thesis has been heard a lot lately in public, especially by the SDP because it is just trying to deceive the public and workers that the government is abolishing collective agreements and all the rights entered into in those collective agreements. It does not say anywhere in the law that the Government has the right to change because it is in its domain, and it does not enter into the content of a collective contract or touch the content of a collective contract, as you touched when you were in power because you did not respect what was agreed by collective agreement. That's a big difference. The government simply encourages collective negotiations on those contracts that have been frozen for years and which apply and to which extended application applies. We should know that, not deceive the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54332	Thank you. Correction next, in the meantime, I was discovered that there were two others who applied. Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54333	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Dragovan incorrectly stated that this government supports a system where the socially endangered cannot exercise their rights. This is absolutely incorrect, because it is very well known that in the position of health care and social care are not reduced funds but remain the same and there are significant opportunities. But it's important what you said at the same time that they invite you to protect them. And as you've protected them very well remember our citizens, so let's start with the Croatian Military Disabilities where 4000 280 have reduced various rights, etc. and where it had to be smoothed the debt of 21 million kuna. They remember, of course, the births that you also gave birth to. Furthermore, they also remember educational workers to whom this same government had to return certain moments, and of course mention the debt to the pensioners that we returned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54334	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54335	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's incorrect that the government doesn't do anything to protect human rights. In fact, the government is doing everything in its power to respect everything that is related to human rights. Of course, first of all, it has strengthened all human rights institutions that monitor the state of human rights and the absolutely government sector is strengthened and, of course, all of these institutions whose reports we receive in the Croatian Parliament are supported by the Croatian Government. So it absolutely does not stand and it is an incorrect statement that the government is doing nothing in this area. Croatia can be proud of some other countries and members of the European Union even.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54336	Thank you. And Mrs. Susana Bilic-Vardic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54337	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm also correcting this incorrect assumption that the government is doing nothing to improve the situation. Col. Dragovan did not do so because even the occupier found improvements in the situation in certain areas. If you hadn't read the report just what suits you otherwise, this address here in the Croatian Parliament would have been. And that the government spell also showed in an opinion in which on page 26 it explained what in this report until it was clear somewhere incorrect, somewhere incomplete.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54338	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the vote on the Constitution has been announced. However, the board is still sitting, so please don't part ways, because tomorrow we won't have a vote. Let's at least stick to this number like we do now. I will now ask Vice President Jarnjak to continue the session. I'm sorry I won't be here with you, but there's been an earlier scheduled visit by the Vice President of India, and then I have to go later, and there's another. Here I am asking Vice President Jarnjak to speak less with Vice President Fristic and to take over the presidency here. Now it's on behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go. Damir Cain, I doubt he's here. [[Intruder: He's gone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54339	I'm not in Sutjeski, but okay. Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's a review of this report that we've been given de facto, which I printed myself, on this page 12. So here we're talking about a comparative display of complaints on topics, legal areas from 2006 to 2009. So it is said that the judiciary last year received 334 performances, so pension insurance 123, and the right to rebuild 84, persons deprived of freedom 213, construction, housing, status rights, property-legal relations, access to information, denationalisation, refugees, exiles, returnees, etc. However, why I took this very comparative display of complaints on topics from 2006 to 2009, because it is seen here that in the area of persons deprived of liberty there are the most complaints. Well, that's 2007. 131, 2008. 177 complaints, 2009. 213. In one word, it has the biggest increase in labour and service relations, which will say that the situation in prisons is difficult, but what time it is and it is extremely important for us ourselves because no one knows who can be found there tomorrow and from us, so maybe you should really invest a little more money in that, let's call it that, prison system. Because you never know, there are former Deputy Prime Ministers, former managers, former directors who have had billions of kunas there. There are state secretaries there, still no tycoons who have received everything from the state, interesting. There's a football player, a small team, a doctor, a professor, a representative, a general if they don't get out of Bosnia. Well, we can see that the odds are difficult and that if I were to be cynical, maybe there really should be something you should do. But let's put the joke aside now. It's even interesting because most of this report's pages are dedicated to exactly the opportunities in prison. So 17 pages from some 168, from 31 to 48. However, I want to put an emphasis on this other area at this time, these are refugees, exiles, or returnees, as well as on temporary busy property. Recently, Mr. Josipovic was in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and he placed an emphasis on returning to Republika Srpska. It is undeniable that Croatia was a victim of aggression, it should be pointed out all the time, but it should also be mentioned the crashes that took place, for example. After the storm. It's clearly not positive. What is positive, today these buildings are being restored, but what is the nonsensical collapsed building of the Croatian authorities in '91. Until '92. outside the war of the damaged area due to amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, the famous article 180 of 1996 is not being renewed. And that's inadmissible, gentlemen, it's discrimination, it's a continuation I'd say a political reckoning with different means. Well, only around Bjelovar, about 800 such buildings, not only Serbs, but also Croats, and I suggest that we look ourselves in the face, first of all here or in the executive government, and that the famous '96 article, Article 180. The law on mandatory relations as such changes because we want to figure out the outside as a legal state, as a democratic state. It's a residential question. How many citizens were thrown into the street from the so-called. The military flats your report speaks of, say, in the early '90s. Someone even mentions 50 and 60 grand. The peace of certain categories of people, people who didn't compromise, but whose misfortune was that they were in the former army, so what happened to them happened to them, that they simply lost their income. Or the return of gentlemen of temporary possessions where people can't return to their homes, so I quote this report from the public defender's 2009 page, so it's said that the particular problem is to act precisely in cases where the former temporary user is asking the owner for a cash compensation to invest in real estate and the problem of devastation of the facility in the case of the eviction of these persons. The Croatian government has solved the problem of unauthorized investment in busy assets by taking over the obligation to pay compensation instead of the owners for all cases where the court proceedings are under way through an extrajudicial settlement, etc. What kind of practice it is we know. As a rule, it's not worth it to these people. Just to say, at the end of 2009, there were 13 pages, 7200 pending complaints. During 2009, the administrative court resolved nearly 200 lawsuits against second-degree solutions of the ministry in a way that confirmed all disputed solutions except in two cases, etc., so that I do not now quote these applications. It is clear that all those who have had useful and necessary costs have the right to compensation, it cannot be disputed. Anyone who invested means someone else's property has the right to compensation, but it can't be a reason why buildings don't come back as well as apartments and the like. Today, a text appeared in the "New List": "Jovan Beric was hoping for justice, he received a payment card of 54 thousand kuna" namely, which is what it is. It's about that crime that took place 2 months after "Storm" if I'm wrong in the Varivods instead of protecting these people, we see justice being shared in Croatia in a way that those who sued the state for this case simply delivers payments due to court costs of 54000 kuna. I quote, "There's no responsibility." So, although the crime took place almost two full months after "Storm" when Croatian parties controlled that space and were obliged to protect lives and the property of civilians had no responsibility, although it is known that the crimes were committed by members of the HV whose bloody pirate police would cover up only if their plan had not been corrupted by the activists of the Croatian Helsinki Committee, etc. etc. Why would I bring that up? Because we have a good example of how the Rabbit case got solved when they got through the court settlement of their heirs, a family somewhere amounting to a million and a half kuna, and I think that if we really want to say to ourselves that we respect the rule of law and this is one example of how we should, that we should do it in a similar way and in this example. And gentlemen, those who keep winning, those who tell the truth don't hate it, they don't share Croatia. However, the one who is telling the truth thinks that at this moment the most can help Croatia. We like to say to ourselves that we are the leader of the region. Okay. I guess that's true, but sometimes the leader has to be willing to at least admit that some legal solutions knowingly discriminate against certain categories of citizens in this country confirm injustice, and this House certainly must fight against it. I will repeat once again that Croatia was a victim of aggression. You can't forget that. That can't be stopped. But that's not why anyone else is wronged just because it's not my nationality or my political opinion. It's a similar thing that I know about, say, the Slovenian government who thinks it's 100 years ahead of us, and who, say, doesn't want to pay our savings back at the Ljubljanska Banka. What we did, for example, with the '96 amendment. the year of that Article 180. The Law on Mandatory Relations, which made it impossible to rebuild buildings outside the war by war on the affected areas. For example, they did so with that law on the new Ljubljanska banka and thus knowingly stole about 130 or 140000 Croatian savings for some today, 300 maybe 400000, 400 million euros. I think it is simply necessary to change those standards and to change that practice as well. What's interesting on page 63. - Defendants - right to housing. This describes a case where individuals invested considerable funds in construction facilities, where the state makes it impossible for them to buy these apartments. That's what I'm going to want to believe soon, because there's gotta be such an initiative. Absolutely these people should be allowed to buy an apartment. 400,000 apartments in this country have been sold in a similar way to the users of the residential area or the homeowners, according to the contract, and I see no reason why, for example, our defenders would not be that, either. However, I also believe that all those craftsmen, craftsmen, merchants, etc. who work in a state space or a local self-government area must also be in a position to buy out their business space clearly at some real price. In this country, everyone, in some ways, settled down under quotes. The tycoons got factories, hotels, foreigners got our banks, telecommunications. The workers came to buy these apartments. Only small craftsmen can't solve this particular business space issue. As far as that nationalization is concerned, she's going slow. Some questions can't be solved. What is extremely interesting for Istria, interesting is one category of people we call persons who have been released from Yugoslav citizenship, whose property is nationalized. They're somewhere around 5236, about 3,000 of them had some property. To this day, they have not resolved that question. They're not optants. Clearly, the optanists have no right to return any property, no compensation because the states have agreed in due time that war damage is another matter how humane it is that Italy has done at the premises of ex Yugoslavia compensates so-called. the property left in the space of the then state. However, in a series of problems as well as those I spoke about before and when it comes to denationalisation, we simply don't want to solve it and leave it all to whom to express death so that it simply reacts where the rule of law does not want or does not get there. On page 158, the ninth pardon in this 2009 report on the work of the Ombudsman speaks of social rights, so I will quote one chapter that already in the report we have observed Mr Malcic, for 2004, we have warned that with all divisions resulting from war and related political events, ethnic, ideological, world-political origins, or a new large division of Croatian societies has already been created that will soon overcome all other divisions, which is divided into poor and weak and rich and powerful. Maybe that's the nicest line but to the pain of the truth of this 2009 report. It is good that the unions, that their leaders, well their leaders are some other story that is often and in a better position materially than the minister or Prime Minister are collecting petitions. They should certainly be supported in this, but it should also be said that it is also in some way a struggle for the position of that public administration. And speaking of public administration, let me just mention that 387000 people work in this sector in the Republic of Croatia, which is 8.7% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. You know how many of them work in the public administration in Austria 4.4% or 370 thousand, and as far as we know, Austria has a brother twice as many inhabitants as the Republic of Croatia and it is certainly at least 5 or 10 times better material position than the Republic of Croatia. Let me just say that the employees of the state services in Croatia pay in local self-government receive 67,000, in public enterprises they are HEP, Croatian waters, forests etc. 71 thousand, and in the state administration and public services, 249 thousand people. A total of 387 thousand people, it is a huge problem, but surely trade unions should support that Croatia loses its union movement, and what I resent is that they mainly operate in the public sector, not in the economic or real sector. On page 161 of this report, it even deals with our watch, so to speak the final page, so we read it anyway, and then here it is said that moving part of the office to a new space will free up space in the building of the Croatian Parliament, where employees of the office are also temporarily located, etc. I don't want to read everything. The guys are 100% right, we're solidarity with them, but I'd tell them guys to keep a job, because that job in the public sector is a privilege today. 94 thousand people lost their jobs in the Republic of Croatia in 2009, and this trend continues in 2010, so let's keep the job we have for these people. All in all, the IDS Club welcomes this report, normally that we'll vote for, we accept it, it's brave, in some findings extremely boldly and I want to believe that in the future, but I know that time will deny me, I would like the Public Attorney to have less to do, but unfortunately such are economic and social opportunities, he and his associates will be increasingly and more frequently invited and normally in certain cases engaged. Once again, the IDS accepts this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54340	Thank you. We're moving on with. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations, sorry. First is the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54341	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In his debate, counterpart Cain said, quote: "Building buildings from the Croatian government in 1991 to '92. Or '93.", if I understood him correctly. My colleague Cain, that's incorrect. You have the right to your opinion and it is your right that no one disputes you, you have the right to interpret certain events, but as a state official and parliamentary representative, it is not like you as prosecutors to label the Croatian state. It is true that at the time Croatia had a defensive war, that they were suffering, that people and houses were suffering, but what you said accused the Croatian government of tearing down houses, that's on your picture. One more thing, you said they're telling the truth to those who love Croatia. Comrade Cain, your truth is a little selective and deficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54342	The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect allegations of fellow Caine who said that no apartments and buildings are returning to Croatia. I would like to remind you that 33,000 applications have been made in the Ministry of Regional Development, positive and issued solutions on housing, and if he does not believe, let him walk around Pakrac and the surrounding area and let him see that three thousand houses have been built there and dedicated to people where people can't even tell you, and some have not even opened the door of the renovated house to flatten it or air it, and out of that 350 houses have already been sold. Please take a walk on Pacraca.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54344	Thank you. And the correction of the false quote, the esteemed representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54345	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Cain said the apartments aren't coming back. I am speaking an example from Vukovar where 4000 and 200 apartments were restored and the largest number of former tenants and most of them are Serbian nationalities. They all got apartments and in Republika Srpska compared they returned 2% around Banja Luka, and nobody says never Mr. Cain said why these people didn't come back, and the other day Mr. Dodik cynically called for the Croats to come back and our president Josipovic to say we should come back. And what we waited for 20 years for the Croats to return, and in Croatia they all returned and still today the Croatian Government calls and those who did not live in Croatia are returning today and receiving apartments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54346	We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54347	Mr. Vice President, Mr. People's Attorney General. Until the one who has, this Parliament has a duty to deal with and these are the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or the people of this country we will call the people of this country, they will probably pass as they go through in this report. But aside from this inherited practice of appointments that I am not sure is the happiest, I would like to say that this Assembly in the Office of the Police Attorney, the General Prosecutor and his assistants and all those working in that office has a strong, important, significant instrument in the protection of the fundamental constitutional rights that this Assembly needs to protect amongst the first ones and should speak of them and seek to ensure that the instruments of the authorities and instruments of the judiciary are in the function of fundamental human rights, therefore justice and the rule of law. In the opinion of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, but also according to the members of the Human Rights Committee, therefore also others, it is extremely high quality prepared, extremely reliable with the data and assessments that are presented here and represents an example of institutional professionalism among Croatian institutions, which is unfortunately not available in some segments of the government in particular in some segments of judicial institutions. And for this reason, it seems to me that this Assembly may be proud of the work of its attorney-general, and that we MPs here point out some of the things that the Ombudsman points out in his report, of course, is our representative's obligation, and our constitutional oath obliges us to because as much as anyone here calls for other criteria, there are no criteria for us here above that oath or for what it says in the book that we have sworn to. The first thing I'd like to say is a question of renewal. The state has really invested a lot in rebuilding. For different generations of refugees, for different generations of exiles, for different generations of returnees. And in this sense, Croatia really represents a country that, with its experience, can be a good example. However, for the last category of those involved in the reconstruction programme, which are returnees of Serbian nationality, the process takes a long time. 7,200 or 7,500 still unsolved cases in the secondary procedure lasts very long. And despite improvements within the Ministry of Regional Development, better personnel teaming and better criteria that would lead to a reduction of such a large number and a greater number of positive solutions in the secondary process, this is still, unfortunately, taking too long. They are not, according to our knowledge, even in terms of money, but because of the efficiency of the administration and the clear criteria in this regard. And I think that the ministry and the minister are obliged together with their secretary of state to find an even more efficient and even faster way to complete this process because then our assessment that we say can be positive and finally positive. Another thing I'd like to mention here were the different figures presented for my predecessor Caine's speech. In the case of housing care for former tenants, the applications lodged were totaled outside the PPDS area and within the PPDS area of about 14 thousand. Some of these requests have not been accepted, i.e. they are not positively valorised either in the category within the PPDS or outside the PPDS area. What represented the problem in this process is the long wait for this process to open and that people can finally start getting these apartments. And this process is open, this process is currently weakened because the state has not provided adequate funds for its continuation and this process has been weakened because the contracts that were to be signed with the tenant status holders in the housing category have not been, they have waited more than a year or two days to be able to obtain these contracts. What it represents for all people, therefore for all users of the right to housing, and regardless of whether it is for members of Croatian or Serbian nationality, whether it is for people in Vukovar talked about by a colleague of Mlinaric, Croatian or Serbian nationality, it is indeed a large figure. However, this figure is large because a large number of people who were not supposed to be taken care of in their apartments were simply implemented from the category of former tenant rights holders in the category of those who received housing. The problem is that none of the other categories, and the people of Vukovar know best, have yet to get the right to buy those apartments. And that kind of discrimination against former tenant rights holders, regardless of who we're talking about, is something that needs to be solved. And on the other hand, it represents, from this place I am obliged to say, the extreme irrationality of the state. There are a large number of dwellings and housing units where both members of the Croatian people and Serbian people and exiles and settlers and returnees, therefore all 3 categories, expect the state to allow them to buy these housing units. For some reason, the state is stalling with this solution, and this is extremely irrational because this money, as we have repeatedly tried to agree, can be used to continue the housing programme in these areas, to continue the restoration of infrastructure based on the initiative of local self-government units, and can of course be used, and it is estimated that several billion kunas would actually be revenue based on a programme of selling these housing units. Whether it's the apartments or the houses people were getting in these areas. Visiting those areas, Sisak-Moslavina County, for example, and one and another category of people, not to mention the municipalities now, approach and demand that the issue be resolved. I would like to call on the attorney general, although the number of demands of this kind referred to him may not be so great, but I would like first of all to invite you colleagues and colleagues to convince the government, regardless of whether it is the representatives of the coalition, but above all, to the representatives of the coalition in power, therefore to my colleagues and colleagues from the coalition or representatives of the opposition, to convince the government and to create the mood to make such decisions and that people under the circumstances that are favourable can start buying out those apartments and houses. And let's not argue about how many they are and how much they got when they're all in the same trouble right now and in the same difficulty and in the same trouble. The third thing I'd like to say is the performances that my colleague Cain was already talking about here. People who have filed lawsuits based on unknown perpetrators who have torn down houses outside the area of wartime actions of people who have filed lawsuits because someone has been killed outside the field of war or after war actions such as this case Beric in Varivoda, from all justice today they get bills for judicial costs because they believe that justice can be granted. So, when it wasn't those who destroyed those houses, when it was those who dared to kill innocent unprotected people, perhaps at that moment it couldn't have done it, protected them, but at least it could have prosecuted those who at that time used the weakness of the presence of the state and sanctioned those people and punished them later if they couldn't at that time. But what certainly should not be done by the state if not for the sake of justice and justice, then it should not be for the sake of morality to do, which is that these people display accounts of 50, 100, 120 thousand kuna and that they are sitting on pensions that are not themselves enough to live. As for citizenship, we still colleagues and colleagues have several thousand people who have been in the status of permanent foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, and makes civil status not yet regulated. We have even a number of people who in the past few months have been issued from Croatian citizenship because they were not born in the Republic of Croatia. Some were even born, but their parents weren't born. And regardless of the fact that their spouses, like the case of a young man from Vukovar who served the Croatian Army, who has a wife who is a Croatian citizen, who has children who are Croatian citizens, and he was a Croatian citizen until yesterday, but he was deleted from Croatian citizenship because his parents were in '47. They were not enrolled in Croatian citizenship for years. It's a paradox we can't overlook and we can't let that kind of thing happen. We have a population shortage, and if someone thinks that some categories of people are excess, they don't think well of this country, and they don't think fairly and justly of the people who live here for 30, 40 years, and they don't have anything anywhere else but here. And for this reason, I think it is high time that the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Administration resolved the issue by amending the Foreigners' Law and amending the Law on Citizenship in those provisions that prevent these people from finally regulating their civic status. As far as courts and justice are concerned. Two are the main problems that exist today. If there was once a major problem with the number of pending court cases, today, in our opinion, what can be read in a report by the attorney general is a matter of trial within a reasonable period of time. In many cases, the principle of a reasonable trial has been violated. I'm going to give you an example of the Benkovec case, and no one here will mind if I state the case of Ljubomira Kasum, who has been arguing for 12 years because the local self-government unit sold his property, his house, his country, and sold it to a natural person. So she didn't use it for the state or the local self-government unit. So thanks to the wrong action of the County State Attorney's Office, thanks to the misaction of the judiciary, Ljubomir Kasum can't get his property so far, he can't even make a deal with the state two years ago. For what? Which is why Djuro Kresojevic, who is in a southern municipality in the area cannot get his property back, can't get his only plot because the houses are no more. Why? Because in the meantime, he believed he could build another house on that plot. So aside from having someone tear down his house, as counterpart Cain said, aside from someone trying to build a house, can't the judiciary and the state allow that man to get what one through one of his own? There may be colleagues and colleagues, in total, if you allow me just one more second of the vice president, so in the total number of difficulties we have in the society of this matter we may not be able to see, but the attorney general and we are here to warn the public, to warn the authorities, the authorities that they need to see them and to pay adequate attention to them. The SDSS representative club will, of course, support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54348	Thank you. I just want to say it was mentioned here and the Varivo case in '95. The year of the ugliness of the crime was investigated, discovered and arrested by the perpetrators and convicted by law. So, I don't know what other case this is, but Varivod is the case that was '95. I think the perpetrators have even endured the punishment. Second. There are committees called in 11 hours. We don't know how long the Constitutional Committee and the Rules of Procedure will last, so I suggest that the committees begin work at 11 o'clock. However, at the moment when the conditions are obtained that we can vote, then we invite you to interrupt the board, come, vote and come back. Okay? Thank you very much. I'm moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Then we'll skip, and we'll ask the Honorable representative of Danica Hurs on behalf of the HNS Club, and Anna Lovrin when she gets back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54349	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, on behalf of HNS and HSU. Dear Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report by the Ombudsman for 2009 and for us all this is a document that speaks of the state of human rights in our country. A few words about the lawyer's work. Therefore, he has affirmed the institution of the Ombudsman in international frameworks, has been accredited with the highest status A, as a national human rights institution, a full member of the acquis. It systematically promotes independence and independence in the work, finding the right measure of criticism and cooperation against the institution of the system, shows the tenacity and endurance of serving citizens by combating slowness and negligence in the administration and bodies with public powers, dedicated to all aspects of the problem of human rights, which can be read from the scope and breadth of topics and issues which deal with everything visible from the content of the report. It originates authorities of the state administration and bodies with public authority but also treats employees in those bodies and bodies. It initiates the adoption of laws, necessary regulations, regulations, standardising procedures, seeking disciplinary measures towards officials, etc. The report further says that 75% of the complaints from last year were resolved, with about 55% being established which is a much smaller percentage of the foundation than in previous years. We are talking about 75% of the previous year, but this is still much more than in the countries of developed democracy. We're talking about 10 percent of legitimate objections and demands. I would refer with a few words to the government's position and to the message of our parliamentary committees. In the past two years, the government has taken note of a report by the attorney general. Last year, the parliamentary committees split up, one of them accepted the report, the other one took note of it, and the third one was familiar with the report. Ignoring the government's public defender's institution as well as the division of parliamentary committees after last year's report and the Assembly's conclusion on the two previous year's reports are in fact indicators of the problem of human rights respect. By discrediting the institution of the Ombudsman, the government and the parliamentary majority encouraged administrative bodies and bodies with public authority to act as a violation of human rights. This year...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54350	Excuse me for a moment. I ask the MPs and the MPs, as soon as this debate is over, we will proceed with the vote, so I ask you to have patience until then and to allow the MPs of Hurs to complete the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54351	Thank you very much. This year, with due attention to page 26, the government sent a report to the occupier and was manifested by all segments of the report, which we would like to highlight and praise in particular. However, it is clear from the tone of the government's opinion presented that the government still does not see the Ombudsman as a partner and co-worker in the joint work, but its first goal is to justify any failures in the work of the public authority. Therefore, the next step in relation to the Government's work and the report on the work of the Ombudsman would be to establish a systematic mechanism of monitoring the problems identified by the Ombudsman in its reports and to adopt concrete measures to improve the system that would prevent the continued repetition of the same failures and the same problems. In previous years, the government seriously violated its credibility in the fight for human rights through its relationship with the reports. Through the parliamentary majority, she questioned the responsibilities of the occupier, in particular the evaluations, recommendations and suggestions presented by the Ombudsman. On the other hand, according to the Ombudsman in his report, these assessments have become part of the official rhetoric and policy of the government's majority, but also of the subject of legal and constitutional changes. We have a similar situation this year on the warning that the attorney general makes about the depolitisation of administrative services. Advocating expertise, ability, professionalism and ethics in the work of administrative bodies is in fact an effort to achieve the constitutional principle of equality of citizens before the law. It would therefore be much better for the government to consider instead of the most decisive rejection of part of the report on the politicisation of the state administration's management layer as one of the causes of customerism and political corruption, measures and mechanisms to address the problem that exists. A few more words about the relationship between the authorities of the State of Administration, or bodies with public authority according to the work of the Advocates, which is expressed through. The indicator is in fact an indicator of the level of development of institutions and public administrations, as well as the rule of law and legal certainty of citizens. From these relations, we read a very unequal practice of respecting the Law on the Ombudsman. I remind you of Article 7 which speaks of the obligation of the Authority of the State Administration to notify the Advocates of the measures taken to address it no later than 30 days. This year the situation is really better and there are no equident examples of violations or non-compliance with legal obligations. And in the end, as further and as still can be done. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pension Party will certainly support the initiative to pass a new Law on the Ombudsman. In addition to the necessary changes to the powers of the Ombudsman, we believe that in the preparation of the legislative initiative, we should consider and find the best solution in at least two aspects. First, the issue of regional outposts and the tour of the terrain, or the establishment of the Office of the Public Prosecutor. Can a quality cover the issue of human rights violations without permanent presence on the ground where the biggest problems are? I'm asking that as a question. The inaccessibility of this institute, is it not also a form of human rights violation? The Ombudsman himself notes that a significantly larger number of cases registered in 2007 were precisely due to an increased tour of the terrain. Secondly, the issue of setting up a special defence attorney's office. So far, as we all know together, there's a lawyer for children, gender equality, for people with disabilities. To make it better, and in line with the savings that we need to implement, we need to take the D.A.'s office under one hat, and we need to cover with the deputies. Here, I'm giving it to you, for our sake, so I think we can discuss it further and I think it would be a good idea to accept this proposal as well. Finally, on behalf of all MPs and representatives of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party, I would like to commend this Attorney's Report and we will accept the Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54352	Thank you. We'll continue the debate after we hold the vote. We will continue to discuss the 2009 report on the work of the Ombudsman. It is up to the distinguished representative Ana Lovrin on behalf of the HDZ Club. Dear Representative Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54354	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Regiment's Attorney General with the deputies. I want on behalf of the HDZ Club, first of all, it was probably already a speech, and probably that's probably what Mr. Public Attorney pointed out. Therefore, the constitutional position of the Ombudsman as the authority of the Croatian Parliament which protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration and bodies with public authority. The Attorney General under the Law on the Ombudsman is independent and independent, and here is the very net draft draft amendment to the Constitution, and we raised the Ombudsman to a higher level in such a way that we extended his powers. So not only protects human rights and freedoms established by the Constitution, laws and international rights but also promotes the protection of human rights. We have provided for the introduction of immunity for the public defender as well as other representatives of the Croatian Parliament for the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. And what seems to me and I keep the most important of these draft amendments to the Constitution is this independence and independence of the Ombudsman raised to the level of constitutional protection. But today we are discussing this report within the framework of the existing Constitution and the framework of the existing Law on the Ombudsman. For the time being, the Law on the Ombudsman guarantees to the Ombudsman the independence and independence in the work and guidance that no one should give him instructions and orders for his work, of course, within the framework of the Constitution and the law. It also states in the part-round of the work of the Ombudsman that he is considering individual cases of the threat to the rights of citizens who, in the exercise of their duties, have been caused by the authorities of the state administration and bodies with public authority, which is considered by the Ombudsman, either by the complaint of the citizens or by other sources of knowledge in relation to the irregular work of the authorities referred to in this Article. And it also says the law that the attorney general does not normally act in matters where administrative or other proceedings are under way. He also says that the Ombudsman warns, informs, advises and recommends that the Ombudsman may initiate the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia to amend laws relating to the protection of the constitutional and legal rights of citizens and that the Ombudsman submits an annual report to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia on his work, and in the report I read the law, the Ombudsman publishes the information he has come to, on the level of respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens. Here today we have a report on the work of the 2009 Public Attorney's Office. It consists of I would say part two, of the first part which is very exhaustive, in detail, methodologically very well. It contains data, concrete cases, state-of-the-art assessments, case-by-case procedures elaborated in detail in all administrative areas of action of administrative authorities and bodies with public authority, measures taken, outcomes of cases all based on concrete examples of human rights violations, whether on the basis of complaints of the citizens or on their own knowledge and, within that context, by the Ombudsman, and alerts to phenomena and relationships but all based on concrete facts. It's probably already in the debates here today and elaborated. In relation to this part of the detailed report, the Government was also shown, of course, by providing further clarifications or perhaps new information that the Ombudsman had not yet had at the time of the report. But, of course, in one part of it, I should say the objective reasons why there was an injury that the government said were objective reasons, but of course this is a good report because it should work further to ensure that these reasons are removed and that violations of protected constitutional and legal rights do not occur. What I would like to talk about here is now this second final part of the report, both last year and the year before last, there have been a lot of public debates in this House. The Croatian Democratic Community and the Parliament's majority have been accused of obstructing the work of the Ombudsman, i.e. they do not accept reports because they are afraid to accept, or acknowledge what the report says by no means. Therefore, this first part of the Report which fully shows the state of respect, i.e. in concrete cases of violations of the right of citizens, has never been made any objections. However, they are directed to the government so that the state authorities will take all measures to ensure that this does not come into the future. What made us and the previous years took note of this report, and this year the Croatian Democratic Community Club will take note of this report for 2009 because nothing has changed in the way the report was submitted. So, we argue that the report was not drawn up in accordance with the existing Law on the Ombudsman, because in the final part of the evaluations and proposals, I dare say superficial assessments, political observations, which is not the job of the Ombudsman and which, it would all be good if they were based on established facts. On the contrary, they are based on a general impression or subjective feeling. I can make an example out of thinking that it's a last year's report, any one of which said here, and I'm literally quoting it as a previous report, why it didn't take that report. He says despite the notoristic fact that part of judges are not appointed on permanent duty only according to the criteria of expertise and competence in the judicial system is not created or acts a mechanism that would eliminate those who cannot meet the standards of efficiency, quality, impartiality, and which are not numerous, but most affect the bad image. So, this assessment is not supported by any specific case, the notor fact is I do not know from some newspaper inscriptions, it has become notable although the Public Advocate, in accordance with Article 11, which says that all data and all information are available to him, has the right to see all the documentation from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia, and also in those who have been decided by the right discretionary assessment, regardless of the degree of their secrecy, so we hold that, if he had any indication that this was the case, could be done with a concrete insight, ask for all the basis of what decisions were made, what objective criteria they had, which the indicators of the work of judges had, whether this principle of excellence was violated, and objective criteria or not, but on some specific cases, or at least numerically, to know. That was the reason for accepting that and some other such flat-rates were the reason for receiving knowledge last year. Also last year, and these in the report are proposals for amending the law. We believe that it is methodologically wrong, because it is true that the Ombudsman can initiate the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia by adopting amendments to the law, but not by this report, but through the year, and the place in this report is then about the work of the Ombudsman of the People's Army, that the Ombudsman said in the report that during the year he submitted three, five or two initiatives to amend it and that law, on the basis of respect for constitutional and human rights, the rights of citizens, and not in a way that concrete proposals are introduced into this report, because then, by accepting this report, the requirement to vote on it and to accept it, is prejudication of the acceptance of what should be in the law. I quote from the 2009 report on this. The Advocate General said this should be mentioned that the contested assessments of the need to depolitise the state administration, and strengthening the judicial administration and strengthening the role of the Supreme Court and the President of the Supreme Court in the appointment of the President of the Court, as well as on the work of the State Judicial Council later became not only part of official rhetoric, and politics, but also subject to legal and possible constitutional changes. So this is a little bit, as I would say, this is saying that something that the parliamentary majority disputed later entered into the text of the law, and possibly the Constitution. That's not true. These amendments, which were later entered and accepted by the parliamentary majority in the law at that time, were in the process of discussing the professional and general public and the political public and were still models of the very depoliticalisation of the state administration, but also strengthening the independent, independent and professional judiciary, were under way and we felt that accepting this would be precisely the moment to prejudge things. Of course, through a later discussion, there have been some very similar solutions in which we have found ourselves on the same trail, of course, because both our final goal is exactly the same for you and us. In the end, you're our authority. So also this year's report repeats this one assessment at the end, which is rejected by the Croatian government, but I think with full law, because it says this, although legal assumptions for the depoliticalisation of the administration have been created and the number of politically appointed officials in the administration has not been limited, the necessary changes have not occurred. Last year's report also repeated this, and I further say, contrary to the principles of intensities of the legislative amendment, the government has made it possible for the previous political appointed officials under more favourable conditions of competitions, etc., to remain in those places. So let's not forget that the government of the Croatian Democratic Community with coalition partners in 2007 passed the Law amending the Law on civil servants where it completely depolitized the state administration to the highest level. There was then an objection to the opposition to do so in order to appoint before the elections for permanent and similar staff, then we explained that this would only apply after the 2008 election. And then, 2007. After the re-instruction of the Croatian Democratic Community government, with coalition partners, the law began to apply. I don't know on what grounds and that's why I think and the Attorney General would have had to have some particular case of violation of law again, because for example I know, I was then a minister, that in early 2008 I opened a public tender for... Head of the Department's administration. [[You don't understand.]] They all went through the contest, no matter where they were before, and they all went through the procedure under which the civil servants went through, in accordance with the government's office, which was just the law on civil servants authorized by the Government to adopt that regulation. Whether the Attorney General, as possible, I am not saying that there may be irregularities in a particular ministry, that no competition has been conducted in a particular ministry as it should have been, except in cases which are also justified in accordance with the law, if the resolved official had previously been a civil servant and had already entered the competition into the state service. For these reasons, I speak only one methodological approach which is not in line with the Law on the Ombudsman of the People's Army on the draft amendments to the law and in these assessments at the end which are flat-rate and do not result from concrete cases of violations of constitutional and legal rights, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will take note of the 2009 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54355	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54356	I am correcting the alleged distinguished colleague in which she said that the Ombudsman did not have the right in its report to present certain proposals in terms of the promotion of legal proposals. On the contrary, the attorney-general of the Croatian Parliament has absolutely the right to do so, which is why a respected colleague as former justice minister should know, but given how much she knew as a minister of justice is probably being replaced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54357	I mean, this doesn't belong in the domain of correcting an incorrect quote, which you yourself are aware of. Correction of the second allegation, the distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54358	counterpart Lovrin said it was not true that the depolitisation of the administration in Croatia was carried out. I wish he was, but he's not. But it's not just my assessment, it's an objective assessment not only of which a very clear and public defender has spoken out, but also of the European Commission, which has hardened, ordered us in the end to deal with this big problem precisely stressing that Croatia's big problem is still a major politicisation of the state administration, in general public administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54359	Thank you. We are continuing with an individual debate and it is up to the distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Attorney-General with his associates, his deputies. I must say that I was worried about the debate from my colleague Lovrin on behalf of the HDZ Club for a moment because I was afraid that my debate would end with a request for a resolution of the attorney general. Because what was said in this report simply gave the impression that it would be the most likely move of the ruling coalition. Now, before further discussion to check something out, I may have missed some legal changes or I don't remember them well. Is the Attorney General's Attorney General still in charge of the Croatian Assembly under the Law? It is. So we are talking about a report by an institution that has our power of attorney in the area of civil rights protection. And he came to us, in front of us with a report. Of course, in the opinion of the government, which is for the first time extensively, I've never seen it this big before, is every other sentence we disagree, we reject the most decisive. Well, of course, because in this report, the attorney general has found a series of failures by the executive authority in relation to the citizens. And now in the discussion of this report, we use quotes written by the government. Well, we sent these people to protect the citizens from state red tape. To help them cope as the other side, the state administration, local and regional self-government and other bodies with public powers that are not working well, citizens are complaining to the attorney general and he reacts. And now the government's opinion is more important to us, which is justified for the failures made, negates some allegations of subjective evaluations and evaluations under a report by the attorney general. If, then, he remains the authority of the Croatian Parliament, then allow me to ask the question of how in this opinion the Government does not have a single reply to the following, I quote p. Six. Reports by the attorney general: "The obstacle to more effective work in cases under appeal is primarily the duration of the proceedings itself, and one part the fact that the competent authorities do not respond on an up-to-date basis to requests by the Ombudsman within 30 days. The emergency has been recorded in communication with the Central Office for the Management of State Property, the Ministry of Justice – the Department of Civil Law, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, the Ministry of Administration and the units of local self-government, the municipalities and the Croatian Bar." In 61 cases, the competent authority has not yet responded to the letter of the Advocate General, and in 313 cases it was delivered only after 1 or more rushes. On 313 times, the Ombudsman had to send in hastens to have a body of authority or public authority respond to one of the cases behind which the complaint was made by one or more citizens of this country. And in 61 cases, they didn't respond at all. And the government here now says that the attorney general gave subjective evaluations and evaluations. Why aren't the appointed ministers sitting here? Why isn't there a Minister of Agriculture, Environmental Protection, Ministry of Administration here? To answer the question why they don't answer. Why didn't the government say they'd be relieved or questioned by their behaviour toward the attorney general? Why aren't these ministers here, and as rapporteurs on behalf of the government, they're listed here to be here? Why aren't they here? To answer our questions now, "Why don't you answer your questions to the attorney general?" Who's to blame in your ministries? Who doesn't do his job? What kind of officers, commissioners, department heads ignore the arraignment attorney? That's the only thing I'm interested in about the executive authority to the attorney general. This bureaucratic imposition, quoting regulations, listing regulations, made, written, made no excuse for what is written here, and no one has disputed. They didn't come, they didn't dare come to these benches and answer this question, "What are you doing in the ministries? How can you remain a minister after the Ombudsman's finding that you do not get answers from them?" It's a basic function. How will the attorney general work and protect civil law if some ministry doesn't respond to the case before them? Or the public government's body, whether it's health insurance, pension, state administration, local. And here's the bar I thought the lawyers were there. I thought there were lawyers in the bar who knew the laws, and they know what it means to violate the right obligation, to answer questions from the attorney general. That's the point. Do we have the readiness and have we given enough tools in the hands of the attorney general to do his job? Yesterday in constitutional change, I heard some, a large one now, and through constitutional changes, we are strengthening the position of the attorney general. How? We'll buy him a new chair to get him a better position. Have we entered into the Constitution a provision not to answer the mere questions and demands of the attorney general's attorney to be sanctioned in law as well? Is someone once removed from public duty because he did not answer and ignored the arraignment attorney or exposed to criticism, public shame for that? Has the state compensated a citizen for the fact that the state's bureaucracy didn't solve the problem in time and not even after the intervention of the attorney general? And then we are surprised that the number of complaints from Croatia in the European Court of Justice is growing, which citizens are more concerned with protecting their rights in Brussels because they cannot solve their problems in Zagreb. Not only are they as individuals, as citizens, nor are we Parliament, the Croatian Parliament through its authority. And let us now press on, is the Government satisfied with this report, but indeed by my bureaucratic approach, or is someone going to answer the question of how it is possible in the 21st century, in a country that wants to be a member of the European Union, that from some state's portfolio, ministry, office, office, bodies with public authority do not respond within the legal deadline of the Ombudsman. What kind of government is this? Who's taking her? Who is responsible to the citizens for their work? And none of the calls in this report had the civic or political courage to come today and listen to our debate. And for that reason, I trust the attorney general in the accuracy of this data. And that's why I'm not interested in this government opinion, because they're covered in thick ears with bureaucratic formulations, a bunch of paper by avoiding answering the key question. Madam and gentlemen of the government, Madam Prime Minister, how long will you have to ignore the attorney general, how long will you tolerate members of the government who do not respond to their demands to resolve civil cases? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54361	Thank you. And one notice. The 33rd session of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will take place today on 10 June at 13:30 in the Ivan Mažuranić hall, which is number 84. The chairman of the board, the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. And we continue with an individual debate. And it is up to the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, although it is hard to read it from here, but it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed Attorney General with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. If today, or all these months, and perhaps even years of doing a comprehensive survey as many of our citizens believe in individual institutions, it is certain that in this scale the value of trust, the attorney general would be for them "persona gratiss". Just because the government knows it well, for the government almost made the occupier an insecure person, "persona non grata". These are serious things, what kind of messages the government sends. Not only is it serious what the attorney general found, but how the government treats citizens' problems. in such a way that he wants to disqualify here one commendable, one persistent work of the occupier. And what kind of message it is to the institutions, even to the citizens themselves, in the fight against corruption. Because all of this law that's been overrun has been used by someone else's right to provide it against someone else. And the government says it resolutely rejects especially and alone that our biggest problem is the politicisation of public administration. She rejects it, she rejects the citizen coming and complains to him, so it's still checked. She's throwing it away. The government rejects problems, the government rejects responsibility. That's our biggest problem. But there is someone who is institutional in Croatia, therefore not only individually, not only an ominous opposition warns and malignant about them, but is warned by the institution. And there are few of them, the courage of such is little in Croatia, but it has power. Unfortunately, many rights should have been violated, the basic right almost to the existence of a crowd of citizens should have been put at risk to increase that courage. People who have nothing left to lose have nothing left to fear. But that's what the government is afraid of, and then where they're going, they're going to hit on a public defender who the citizens of the Republic of Croatia trust. They trust that the Ombudsman and his team do not ride on many trips, as many do with the government's approved and blessing, but are painfully receiving citizens, listens to them, points to these shortcomings, goes on the ground, not to tourist tours, but to meet citizens. That bothers the government. Instead of being grateful to that man and his team for helping the government find a problem. Not to repeat what counterpart Igor Dragovan said on behalf of the SDP club, I will look back at only one segment that may not be as much of a public concern as a big problem, but it outlines essentially what society is like and how it reacts to problems at all. For years, the attorney general has been talking about a difficult situation in the prison system. About a situation that is not only difficult and contrary now, but many standards and our existing law on the enforcement of the law, but is a security problem, poses a danger to the general. The problem he systematically pointed to is not that he did not shrink, not that he did not remain the same, but that he increased. Every once in a while we get the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights on which the convicts sue the Republic of Croatia. Croatia is not responding in an adequate way to address these problems, pay for the damage and remains the problem, the problem remains unresolved. That all human rights citizens are affected often and do not have the right picture of it because when a respected person comes into custody or into prison yesterday, then it is about apartments, and it is not about where those who may not be there are coming. That adequate criminal justice policies were implemented, i.e. the possibility of alternative measures for dangerous or less dangerous crime, and above all that applies to those who are victims of organised crime, which are most often persons, drug users. This system, not in prisons where I can expect an adequate treatment, but in casamats where, for example, a public defender found, hangs over his head a bag full of liquids and a sanitary knot. Well, people simply don't believe this is happening in the Republic of Croatia. And it happens not to those for whom people and people have justifiably no mercy but to those to whom society should have given a second chance, which is the vast majority. The most common are young people, healthy, who, due to the inability of adequate maintenance of the sentence, see that 12 persons were placed in a room of 26 m2, 24 hours there. So is there a normal man who could survive that? And tomorrow they'll come out, and those people will be dangerous, and when they come out, they're dangerous, they're more dangerous than they came in. So these normal conditions are given, not from some great altruism and philanthropy. No country so loves its citizens, especially those they condemned and sent there. It's because they come in contact with the most dangerous criminals. That's where they become crime schools and become very dangerous. We see this by the number of relapses that are worrying, which means that the penalty system has absolutely failed, and it did not fail because of the people who are working there because they are excellent experts, but because of the impossible conditions in which the state has condemned them to live and work and not only prisoners, but also those people who carry out treatments whose life is constantly in danger of basic provisions are precisely in preventing relapses that people who are together are not allowed to come into contact, so there they are precisely because of the inability to provide any larger space, adequate accommodation, living together. Sick, tuberculosistic with healthy, young with old, primary delinquents with tough criminals. It's a serious, serious problem. It was here that international institutions have also attended prisons to use lesser alternative sanctions under emergency conditions so that the prison would be reserved for the most difficult perpetrators and that they would receive treatment, that is, once they come out, when the prison door is opened that society doors are not closed and that we really trust the system that it helps and raises people. Or we left even a concept of education, educational treatment and that of pure capitalist thinking and penal system theories, that it was a pure exchange. Society ain't gonna raise you, there's nothing to raise you, you got what you got, and we don't have with you, we don't have any obligations to you. It is simply by our laws, according to our Constitution and all the international acts that we have signed, not true because the state when it put someone there did not stop all its obligations to such persons but that, in fact, they came to be new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54363	Thank you. Three corrections. Madam representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll correct the incorrect assumption. An esteemed colleague said the government rejects problems, rejects responsibility. So it's simply not true because we're witnessing that this government is just taking responsibility, warning of problems. And it seems to me once again to remind me, but I was wondering if it's possible that someone else hasn't heard that the government is constantly stressing the zero degree of tolerance towards corruption and crime, and that at least 30 times a week, and that's exactly how it works. There's something else I want to make right, there's an impossible sentence that's been said here, the victims are drug users. Well, I just hope that people are human and I still believe that every life is equally valuable, so he was the victim of a drug user, as a colleague said. So every human life has the same price, no matter who it belonged to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54365	Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54366	I'd fix a colleague who talks so casually, and besides that, she talks about these people like some things, so she says there's sick, tuberculosis with healthy, unhealthy. I think that such chaos in that system would be terrifying. But I have to answer and correct that adequate healthcare has been given to all prisoners and, despite the lack of doctors not only in the health system but also in the hospital system, contracts with doctors have been concluded and health care is available to all. I will remind you that and writes, as regards the extent of the health care provided in 2009, all categories of prisoners, prisoners, detainees, convicts, breeders who were in total 19792 were provided with the necessary health care. And you can't say it like that that the tuberculosis, I don't know who's getting mixed up together and they're expensive. That's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54367	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54368	In the fact that my colleague was correcting my exact quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54369	Oh, no, you don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54370	Yeah. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54371	It's your opinion that it's corrected...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54372	It's not my opinion, but I am speaking and quoting the Attorney General's Office Report, see page 34. So he couldn't go to the doctor because when a medical examination was agreed for lack of a vehicle, a large number of other prisoners were sent to the courts. You've only read from one prison, and you're...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54373	Comrade Antičević, please. No injured Rules of Procedure. My colleague Caparin was not correcting the report or parts of the counsel's report, but from your allegations. That's not true, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and there's no institute to correct an incorrect assumption. And Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54374	Thank you, Mr. President. So, counterpart Glavak has already corrected part of the incorrect allegations by counterpart Anticevic Marinovic that the government rejects problems and rejects responsibility. Inaccurate colleagues because the government is dealing with problems, of course, and it solves them. But when it starts to settle, then you slip right into the back legs, because a typical example is now a recent debate on the rights of the Croatian defenders for whom you have so great advocacy, and you cut down on them what could be cut. So the damage has to be corrected. The damage must also be corrected. It's hard for me to be distracted all the time. But I also want to say that, without talking about educators, we're not talking about repairing damages, not talking about maternity benefits, repayment of debt to pensioners, etc. etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54375	Don't use the expressions "breathing" on your back legs or anything. This does not belong to this patrol with MPs and MPs. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Police Attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will refer in particular to that part of the report by the attorney general relating to problems and complaints from the welfare system. As in previous reports this year, it also points to the need to bring legislation in line with the observations and conclusions of the European Social Rights Committee. With regard to the low amount of permanent assistance compared to the male. Although the government increased the basis for social contributions from 400 to 500 kn on 1 November 2008, the amount remained extremely low even when additional fees were taken into account. I note that the government increased this base after seven years and did not tie it to a line, a relative line of poverty. It's 60%... National income as defined by the Social Compensation Reform Strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, the strategy that was to be implemented by the end of 2008 was meant to address the basic needs of socially endangered persons, and therefore the planned periodic harmonisation of the basis for the exercise of social care rights is dependent on the movement of the poverty line. Furthermore, in its report, the Ombudsman points to the problem of the homeless particularly during the winter period and points out the need to consider the possibility of appropriate additions to legislation that would provide this marginalised group of citizens with more quality care. In fact, the Social Care Act is not regulated by the status of homeless people, nor are they prescribed as social care users, therefore they face a number of problems with the exercise of social welfare rights, especially those of homeless people who do not have a regulated residence in the environment in which they reside. That's why they're left to take care of the local environment. The quality of care depends on decisions or social programmes of units of local self-government which differ significantly depending on the fiscal opportunities of these units. For example, the city of Zagreb provides quality social care well above national censorships, but the care of homeless people is resolved through the so-called so-called ". the instructions of the Centre for Social Welfare, which is not an administrative act, so no appeal or objection can be filed against it. In fact, it is only about the possibility of spending the night, depending on the capacity, not on the legal law that guarantees them an emergency reception or accommodation. Furthermore, special weight gives rise to a situation where the whole family becomes homeless. Family doesn't take care of itself in one place. It separates. Adults if there are places to stay and children are staying in the House of Social Care or other appropriate form of care outside their own family. It is therefore also noted in this report that unfavourable social and housing status should not be a reason to separate underage children from families. This is a recommendation from the UN Child Rights Committee to the first Report on the application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child of the Republic of Croatia, that economic reasons or poverty should not be the reason for the separation of children from the family. Furthermore, I will look back on the problem of a third-aged person. The Advocate General notes that during 2009, the parties spoke directly. These were personal arrivals, phone calls to complaints about the lack of non-institutional services in the local community intended for older people. Then the lack of room in homes for older and powerless persons, and the lack of adequate services of paliative care. In most cases, the older ones themselves or in fewer cases the closest relatives were addressed. According to the last census of 2001, with 15.7% of the population over 65 years of age, the Republic of Croatia is among the older population. The largest number of elderly people in Croatia live in their homes alone or in a family circle, and only about 2% of the elderly live in homes for older and powerless. A steady increase in the absolute and relative number of elderly people indicates the necessity of changes in the pension system, in the health system, and in the social protection system that must satisfy among other things the principles of independence, social inclusion and respect for the dignity of the elderly, taking into account the economic opportunities of society. The complaints in which the protection of older people was sought were partly referred to as patiatic care. I find this part particularly important, this concern is mainly given in diseases that are more common at an older age. The Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the period 2008 to 2011 under point 17 of the hospital treatment stated that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will include, by December 2008, pulsatory care and hospices in the healthcare system, a network with a reference centre. The Health Protection Act of 2003 is also regulated in the 2008 Health Protection Act, which stipulates that the health care home must be provided in its field of the patient’s palitative care, and that the palitarian care facility is a health care facility in which healthcare is provided as part of primary health activities. Despite the above, a network of palitative care teams is still underdeveloped, so there is no adequate concern for the incurably ill and members of their family. Paliative care is largely provided on a voluntary basis, while in the minority regions in which it is arranged at home level for health, such as this. in the Primorje-Gorski County. Palitative care must be organised in haste in accordance with the provisions of the Health Protection Act, and with the programme that the Government has adopted, rather than a system based mainly on volunteers, and I stress that I am not reducing the importance of volunteering in this area. What is also necessary to provide for in the law of the Paliatical Care Institution, because international experiences, but also experiences of NGOs, for example the Croatian Society of Hospice and Paliatical Care, which has worked for years in this area, have shown that palitarian care cannot be based solely on institutional forms of care. The way society treats powerless people in a certain way is a test of its real commitment to human rights, therefore this particular problem needs to be given special attention and I am glad that this problem has also found its place in a report by the Ombudsman, so moreover, we need to stress that every year from cancer, there are 20,000 people in some statistics, and 13,000 people die. So annually, at the level of the Republic of Croatia, 13,000 people need quality paliative care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54377	Thank you. Two corrections, one replica. First Madam Representative, Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54378	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm going to do to correct Mrs. Crlenko's guilty, when she says and incorrectly claims that the homeless are left to the local community. This is an incorrect co-worker of Crljenko, precisely because the Social Care Act provides a right called paying sub-capitalism, i.e. compensation for those people who are in a sub-optimal relationship, and I hope you know that in the amount of 50% of assistance for maintenance, i.e. permanent financial assistance, how much the family belongs to the number of its members. Furthermore, I will correct the statement in which you claim and interfere in actual concern for third-aged people with palitative care, as well as when you claim that families are separated in the absence of housing and that children are placed in a home of social care. It is simply not true, because it is hard for a social worker, or team, to make a decision at the social care center to accommodate children in a home of social care only because they need to meet the conditions for child protection cumulatively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54379	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54380	A colleague has been injured by the Rules of Procedure, Article 209. Apparently, she didn't read the report from the Attorney General. In my debate, I cited part of the report by the Ombudsman, which concerns the procedure for the homeless, where the Ombudsman clearly states that the Social Care Act does not regulate the status of the homeless, nor are they prescribed as beneficiaries of social care, so they face a series of problems with the exercise of the rights of the social care system, especially those of the homeless who do not have a regulated residence in the environment in which they reside.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54381	And Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct a colleague who literally read her hearing, the Attorney General's report, so everything she said writes, but also writes that, in part, that the palitarian care is related, it's done on a volunteer basis. So I ask you, if in my county it would be on a volunteer basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54383	Don't ask your colleagues Caparin. In correcting an incorrect quote, do not even rhetorically ask questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54384	No, it's not true that it applies, that palitative care is done only on a voluntary basis, it's completely incorrect, and I would correct my colleague, because we have health homes, we have, I'm correcting you because you said so, but that's not true, and I'm going to correct the Ombudsman, and don't throw it to me, because if it only applies on a volunteer basis, it would work on a volunteer basis, then it would really be pathetic for all of our patients, or those who need to take care of such people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54385	And Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54386	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I think that the question of this homeless person and the social care you were talking about is that the question that we're looking at is that there's one more history, and it's from the time of the Diogenes who lived in a barrel to those who live in hausers, places to store garbage, amongst the buckets, to those who sleep either under bridges or on benches. Therefore, it is a question that is certainly under the full law of the Attorney General, which you spoke of in your discussion. I think that in this case the issue of social activities, both the government and the Ministry of Health, social care, should be much more significant. Because when we look at it all, it creates one and the wrong picture, primarily us people who live and cross, I've had the chance to throw out the trash all of a sudden I see a man sleeping among those buckets, it's very embarrassing. And not to mention people who come out of other environments who see such things and who find themselves, especially when we find a man on the street too. All of this should certainly be more involved in this social care system and what has been pointed out to give greater rights, but also greater obligations to take over services that should work on these issues, which are primarily social services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54387	Thank you. Replication response, Mrs. Representative Crlenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54388	You've noticed a very well-respected colleague. Namely, the homeless are among the endangered groups of our society. And not just homeless people, and those who necessarily need to be taken care of. Paliatical care is needed for those who are at the last stage of life, left to themselves, to their families who often do not know what to do with them and themselves and how to ease their pain. Obviously for HDZ colleagues, this is not a key problem, and they are most important to correct, by correcting incorrect allegations, the actual report by the attorney general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54389	Madam representative Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54390	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately say about this report that it is indeed a very systematic and objective representation of the situation in respect of the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in 2009, and which gives it an additional quality, in my opinion, is that the Ombudsman, as the authority of the Croatian Parliament, is very clear, very unequivocal and above all professional attitudes and warnings on those areas that due to the frequency and meaning of the violation of these rights deserve a special attention from the Croatian Parliament. Namely, as the Ombudsman says in this report, and with which I personally agree, Croatian society is affected by a large division that has overcome all other divisions, which is divided into poor and weak and rich and powerful. This current economic crisis deepens this situation, deepens this division, and therefore the government should take into account that the measures it brings contributes to a more uniform distribution of the burden of the crisis on citizens and certain social groups, but on the other hand, and to ensure equality against the law and legal certainty for all citizens. And when it comes to equality before the law and legal certainty, the Ombudsman says that despite the improved normative framework and certain initial results in its application, the situation in Croatia is not satisfactory. Namely, the unscheduledness, long-term procedures and ineffectiveness of control mechanisms both in administrative and judicial proceedings allow both arbitration and favour the bias and corruption of all kinds. Such a situation, of course, affects the very nature of things most by the very poor and weak, unprotected by connections and money, and the rich and powerful not only to solve things faster but also to win even when they are wrong. According to data from the report, the area that has absolutely dominated the number of complaints received by citizens in recent years and to which the biggest dissatisfaction of citizens is the area of justice. And we know that this area, so Chapter 23, is one of the three chapters that are still unopened in the EU negotiation process. So, every 5 new complaints received in 2009 were precisely from that area, therefore from the area of justice. With their numbers increased by another 12% compared to 2008. However, their structure has changed somewhat. In recent years, the largest number of these complaints referred to the length of court proceedings, and in 2009 they overcame complaints over the dissatisfaction with the outcome of judicial disputes that citizens in their complaints subjectively interpret and experience as a consequence of judicial corruption. This amendment, according to the Ombudsman himself, has contributed to the amendments and additions to the Law on Courts which have been accepted and proposed by the Advocates regarding citizens' rights to trial within a reasonable period of time. Well, managing these precisely would be really useful and further respecting certain counselling suggestions, such as the need for further depoliticalisation of the state administration. As much as the government, in its opinion on the work of the Ombudsman, denies that the politicisation of the management staff in the state administration is the cause of both political corruption and unhappiness and impunity towards citizens. So it's the government that puts it on its back, not the SDP. There's no fellow Milinkovic now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54391	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54392	And it is. It would also be good to respect the counsel's suggestion that an effective and lasting solution to the problem of excessively long duration of court proceedings is precisely in the organisational, personnel and material strengthening of the judicial administration, and in particular the Supreme Court. Because the experience of other European countries also confirms that strengthening the monitoring, evaluation and control services of judges is far more effective than just increasing the number of judges in the judicial system. And the need for greater investment in the supervision of judges is also referred to by the enormous amounts paid to Croatian citizens from the state budget for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. In 2009 alone, nearly 50 million kunas were paid from the state budget. And the most absurd thing in the whole story is that the state register is filled with just the Croatian citizens, so it turns out that through these damages citizens are paying additionally for the ineffectiveness of the judiciary. And it's really that sad story about the Croatian judiciary. The more justice is unreachable, the more expensive it is. I'm asking a question, and how many colleagues and fellow judges did it fit in a reasonable manner? That's not a known piece of information. The report only shows that 2,093 new cases have been generated in the Office for Organisational and Cadrological Affairs of the Ministry of Justice in 2009 with regard to the presentations and complaints of citizens on the work of the judicial authorities in the Republic of Croatia, which is an increase of about 400 new cases compared to 2008. And in the follow-up of the debate, I would like to say something about the relationship between the competent authorities, including the Government and the Parliament towards the institution of the occupier and what is undoubtedly affecting the effectiveness of the vehicular attorney. In 2009, the Ombudsman's Office received a thousand 655 written complaints, which is about 100 more than in 2008. Of this number received, a thousand 230 items were solved, so a quarter of the cases were transferred to the next year in 2010 or we can say that each 4 items received were not solved but was transferred in the following year. According to the Advocates, two basic obstacles are more effective in handling cases by appeal. The first is the duration of the procedures themselves, and the second is the existence of a certain degree of unpreparedness of the competent authorities to cooperate. And as it's obvious, the bodies don't respond on an up-to-date basis to the attorney general's enquiries, and that would be an up-to-date deadline of 30 days. As the Ombudsman himself states, the emergency has been recorded in communication with the Central Office for State Property Management, with the Ministry of Justice, the Civil Law Department, with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, the Ministry of Administration, with units of local self-government, the municipalities and the Croatian Bar are mostly apostrophysed. These "woods" in communication with the competent authorities also confirm the relevant data. In fact, in as many as 313 cases, the competent authorities provided a reply to the Advocate General only after one or more of his haste, and in 61 cases, the competent authority did not respond at all to the letter of the Advocate General and, in these cases, in any case, the Ombudsman’s requests for the removal of certain deficiencies will most likely remain unsuccessful permanently because they have not been heard. And finally, the government's support for the Ombudsman is best shown by the fact that neither in the 2009 budget nor in the 2010 budget, no financial resources for the Office of the Police Attorney are provided for the additional recruitment of three new employees who would work on the operationalisation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. It is a law that has been in force since the beginning of last year, which has also been reported for years. And that law defines the vacancy attorney as the central authority responsible for the fight against discrimination. So it's a new job, an important job, and the lack of financial support is actually the best indicator of how much the government cares about the implementation of this law, i.e. removing the cause of discrimination. Therefore, in order to strengthen the importance of the institution of the Ombudsman in this divided Croatian society, he needs public support, but more than that he needs clear support from the Croatian Parliament, which, as an independent supervisory institution, helps in control tasks. So I think I repeat, that all of us in the Assembly should give clear support to this report, and the same should be done by the Croatian Government, not only to take it into consideration or even challenge it as it does, unlike some other governments who take the recommendations of the Ombudsman as a basis for one starting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54393	All right, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54394	To take measures to address certain problems. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54395	Please. One correction, Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54396	Dear Vice President, I'd like to correct an incorrect quote from my colleague, Jelash, who says that the government divides into rich and poor deepens. So, I think, on the contrary, the Government of the Republic of Croatia takes its measures to leave the recession and crisis with the economic recovery programme of the Republic of Croatia, and takes care of the most vulnerable groups of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54397	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today, it's on the agenda, except for the report on the work of the vacancy attorney, we have an attorney for the children, for the disabled. Last week we had or previously had a lawyer for gender equality, and more and more are heard in public from certain groups of social groups of proposals to set up several more lawyers' offices I think it was for pensioners and some other groups, which shows that there are a large number of groups in the Croatian society who feel unequal and need protection. And as it started, it seemed to me that we'd need it except for the defense attorney's register and the lawyer's register so that everyone who wants to have a lawyer could remember it in one place. Now, what's positive in this report? The most positive thing is the government's testimony, unlike the government's previous obviouss, this time the government sent us an indication on page 26. Which isn't bad. The sign, however, was that the reports of the occupier had begun to be read a little more seriously and that some things had been given answers. These answers are public and it is good that there are such answers. You can see the difference between the government's views and the occupier's. Because let's remind ourselves two years ago the government gave one critical report no consent, i.e. it took note of it, as one was actually a formulation that it gave a little bit to the attorney general at the time, that the job was one report that he didn't really need. So, as the President of the Parliament said in the debates, some things could have been said in a different way. But that time, the attorney general said things the way he was supposed to say it. That didn't come across government support at the time, but we can see things change and get a little serious. Now, in this opinion, the government that we got on the bench for its representatives at today's session, the government has determined no less than 24 ministers and secretary of state. It's a kind of record, I don't think it's ever happened in Croatian Parliament history. There are only three secretary of state or two. I don't know. Therefore, the government's response to the declared number of those who will be present will be somewhat smaller to answer to the questions of the MP or the public defender. Hopefully next time it'll be a little different. But here's what I'm saying is that the government has given all due respect to this time a report from the attorney general. Who's talking to the attorney general? In my humble opinion, with certain exceptions, those citizens, those people who have exhausted all other opportunities to turn to someone and the public defender left me the last bright spot at the end of the tunnel. Why are they talking to him? Because social and state institutions don't do their job well. Now that social and state institutions are doing their job well, it mainly applies to officials, most often to those who come in contact with citizens, so relatively low-ranking and they can really make a mistake. They can act like sheriffs in their tiny little office, they can take the law into their own hands and interpret it as they want to or interpret it wrongly thinking that no one can do anything to them, but that's why they have their bosses who can at least warn them and warn them. When the occupier two years ago in such a sentence and in a direct manner warned that it was happening the government had only taken note of it, did not support the then report by the vengeful lawyer and thus sent a message, do not do it so openly, you can, but don't open it up, do it so you don't know. Instead of accepting it and punishing those civil servants who are not doing their job properly, not doing it right but still deliberately doing it the opposite of how it should be done. And it was a bad message back then because it gives one political message you can do whatever you want, we won't do anything. I hope that the times have changed a little, however, that such a practice will no longer be in the work of any government in the future, that all citizens will realize what the law passed for me, or some adopts unanimously, some bring after the debate most of the votes, so there are some social disagreements about some legal provisions, but most adopt laws and implement them. And since the state administration will be what is always declared, which is at the service of the citizens. Now, of course, since it is a more or less public matter that public services are mostly employed by those who are prone to one political option, mostly, not always, then of course the ruling political option has a little more control over the state services and can further tell them that they are doing a little better. And there's always a good thing that the attorney general reacts when he thinks he should. So, apart from accepting this report, he should be commended. I, Mr. Attorney General, don't know if the opposition commendations are using or harm in your positioning, but it's our job to say so. The only official selected by the Croatian Parliament who had the nerve to tell everything that was going on in the state is a public defender. That's what he needs to be congratulated on. And I'm sorry the government didn't have the guts to accept that then. Now at least we've got an indication that we can discuss, but it's more or less correct. The government has expressed its opinion, it can be debated, but at least we know what the government thinks in certain cases. And I hope that the reports of the Ombudsman and the government's observations on them will be ever shorter every year and that there will be a day when such reports will no longer have any traumatic experience of individuals who, because of some of their particularities, could not exercise legal rights, regardless of the political, ethnic, national, territorial, sexual, age or any other reason why someone is discriminated against. We have passed the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, and we want it to be implemented for all citizens in the same way, and we want the reports of the Ombudsman and all the other lawyers in the future to be as brief as possible, the government's obviouss also as short as possible, and that we always have that idea that the situation is better. The Human Rights Committee also said the situation is better and the shift is slow. It is up to us, then, to conclude, that in the Government, it is primarily to conclude why or who this shift is a slow one, what a shift that would be desirable and finally begin and punish those who do not work. In that sense, I support and commend this report and I will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54399	Thank you. Mr. Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. This debate is more or less the same, it is repeated year after year, and therefore I agree with my colleague, Bauk, when he said that unfortunately these reports will until the government's relationship in Croatia to the institution of the attorney general, but also according to what he writes within these reports, that the situation will not improve. It's obvious, since I've already discussed this three times in the Assembly, the maltenes are similar problems, the number of cases is the same, the ones that don't react are the same. So the government shows no agility or desire to change things and to change irregularities within systems that it can affect. And that is why I agree and, unfortunately, so long as this government is headed by the Croatian position and rights of Croatian citizens in this segment they are complaining about, most often as is evident from the report of similar problems. Most often in areas of special state concern, nothing will change. So, the fact is that the simple attitude of the government towards the problems of Croatian citizens is not adequate and is not what it should be. I also find the reason why people are not even aware of the positions of the occupier, i.e. if they saw the purpose, if they saw that what he wrote by the government, HDZ is trying to correct would probably have more work to do in that situation, more complaints, and in some ways Croatian citizens would feel that something could be done. And in this I see the stagnation or almost identical number of applications from year to year that are repeated, I see the reason that Croatian citizens simply don't write certain applications because they believe that even though they write a public defender will write something, make some appointments for certain ministries, but nothing will change. And that's why the messages to both Croatian citizens and the Ombudsman, until the government's relationship to this problem changes, and it's obvious that we have a minor identical situation for three years, it won't change until the next parliamentary elections. Only by changing the government will the status of the attorney general, as well as the seriousness of the government towards the problems it sees then will it only change that. What I would like first of all to point out, if this report had appointed the culprits, in my opinion the culprits of this status of Croatian citizens who feel helpless, who cannot solve their problems and last year are identical I would have said the culprits were in the lawyer's report. And there's no need not to say your name and last name. Agriculture Minister Mr. Cobankovic, most of the objections is pointed out here he has on his ministry. Minister of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy Mr Pankretic. Minister of Environment Protection Ms Marina Matulović Dropulic. Central Office now Ministry of Administration. Of course, we can't do the current minister because he wasn't the Secretary of State in the Central Administration. We rewarded him for becoming a constitutional judge because he did not deal with the problems that Croatian citizens had sent to the attorney general, he did not respond to questions from the attorney general and his recommendations. We gave him a reward he's a constitutional judge today. I hope that when we have this provision that we have adopted today as a proposal starting to amend the Constitution 2/3 that this will never happen again, that someone who in this way refers to the problems of Croatian citizens has been unscheduledly doing business in communication and in the obligation that he has to be rewarded to become a constitutional judge. Of course, the Ministry of Management is also pointed out here. 61 items to which the Attorney General has launched and warned is not at all responsible. It's a message we're not interested in, it's not our job, we have nothing to do with you communicating. And these are those dangerous messages that the government shouldn't allow itself. You should not allow gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen for Croatian citizens to remain alone in problems and in relation to the administration that is not for themselves, but for these same citizens. As regards a concrete example of the most pressing problem, i.e. an increase in the number of applications concerns the area of justice and the person deprived of liberty, and I would point out that. Last year's report was much more plastic and we read examples of prisoners in the system having fewer squares than the standards predicted, as not adequate conditions. There were a lot of graphic examples and we were reading it even with the infidelity we read and we wondered if it was even possible for people to support punishment in such conditions in Croatian prisons. And it's possible. Not all of them, of course. Some support under fine conditions. Some in Croatian prisons may be even better than outside of prison, so we have read the same over the past years as they organize parties. There's nothing wrong with good company, drink, etc. Some in Croatian prisons were much better than outside of prison because they are much safer there. We see what happens among these groups on the loose, even these days in Zagreb and Croatia. But what I would point out must be taken care of by those people who are on board and it is not possible for us in Croatia today to have capacity for about 2 and a half thousand prisoners in the closed system and that there are over 4000 in prisons. So, a capacity of approximately 160% and normally that there are no conditions and should, if there is already a need in the budget, plan a way to increase these capacities, i.e. in some way. There may also be examples in the world where you enter a public private partnership with a prison system where in this way I would say people who are convicted of weaker or smaller crimes can express their punishment in such institutions. But I definitely see this as one of the biggest problems because really the most objection in the area is related to the prison system. And one more thing I'd like to mention here, and what's particularly important is police actions. Although there are relatively few applications to this 41, there is a great interest since the police and the Ministry of the Interior have great trust and represent the state and in some ways the repressive apparatus should try to avoid these applications being as little as possible, especially when certain police applications are used for political accounts. Here is my colleague, Zvonko Mršić, against whom the police police of Koprivnica County have filed criminal charges. Nothing's going on, it's not working out. No charges. Unfortunately, the attorney's office hasn't advertised that we've seen two, three months since the indictment was filed or reported by the Police Administration of Koprivnicka. Nothing's going on. I wonder how a situation like this can be allowed for someone three, four months to expect what will happen, and the police were initiating that criminal application. So that it might not happen next year because of such police acts that are purely political, political motivation has been motivated to raise the application, so that next year, too, counterpart Mrsic may not write to a police defender to protect his rights as a Croatian citizen. And that's why it's particularly important that the police don't buy into such political pressures, file charges, reports that, of course, eventually, the attorney's office obviously doesn't accept it, there's no criminal record, obviously doesn't accept it. But it is important that the police who should trust all Croatian citizens, regardless of political pressures, be careful how they act and be particularly careful not only with this or that group of people, but with all citizens, and those citizens include, of course, the mayors who are doing their job knowingly as their colleague Mršić does. Here I would knowingly do my job like my colleague Mršić does. In the end, I would give full support to my colleague's staff as attorney general in his work and his team. I would call again, although I know that this is an invitation I would say that will not come across the support of the ruling majority now in Croatia. I would like to invite them to read this report more carefully and try to correct all the injustices inside that report. The message to Croatian citizens is only one. Although every year we debate in the same way I am convinced that this government does not have the strength to make a positive step in the field of human rights protection and unfortunately Croatian citizens and citizens will have to wait another year for that authority to come that will enjoy your trust that you will give it to remove these irregularities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54401	Thank you. Two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54402	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Maras said the government's attitude towards citizens is not the same, especially in areas of special state concern, that citizens are subordinated to other areas. That's not true, and I come from an area of special state concern. This claim is not true, and it is not the same position as the citizens, but also different in a positive way. The government's attitude towards citizens in the PPDS and towards social needs and towards the victims of the Homeland War and the problem of the unemployed is not the same in the areas of special state care and other areas of the Republic of Croatia, and in this respect there is a certain positive discrimination in view of the rights of the social categories of citizens, the rights of the unemployed, the promotion of employment, housing care, the care of third-age persons, the victims of the Homeland War. Of course, local self-government units also give their pain, and I hope that such positive discrimination between the government and the resolution ministries will last until the living conditions in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia are the same. And the second correction of the incorrect allegation, nothing will change in a year, I hope that our citizens will enjoy the areas of special state care in support of the very government, which today is run by the Croatian Democratic Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54403	The second correction, Mrs. Representative, is the Head of the Sun.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54404	Thank you very much, Vice President. There's a colleague who's already corrected an incorrect quote, but I'm just gonna say it again. So in a year we'll see what changes and we'll talk about it, of course, and I believe HDZ will continue to run the story. But I'm glad, though it should probably have been said with a dose of irony, but it wasn't very successful. A colleague found that the government heard problems and tried to solve them. Thank you for seeing that, too. And as for the police, when you are challenging that you should be particularly careful in dealing with persons, such as your colleague Mršić, so I don't know maybe you should, too. Let me finish, and then we'll talk. So maybe you could go to the police and maybe we could work it out differently. So all citizens should have equal treatment, so don’t point out your colleague that someone should be treated more carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54405	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54406	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Glavak has not corrected my quote, it can be established from a stenogram. I've told all the citizens. Especially now, I must warn you colleagues, Glavak, that the police of course must treat everyone the same way, but what you skipped must not be put up with the political will of someone or anything else. That's what I warned you about. You obviously didn't hear it. And it's a little weird that the police are doing some things at certain times that overlap more or more accidentally and I warned you about that. It's just me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54407	But it's no violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54408	It's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54409	It's polemic and replica. Don't be a colleague of Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54410	The speaker isn't on, he doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54411	If she hadn't said what you said. Basic, that's exactly the thesis of the claim disputed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54412	But that's not it, that thesis wasn't said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54413	Well, that's not true. Well, that's what you say it isn't. Now we can lead the controversy, and now I should let Mrs. Glavak deny the reasons why it isn't, you deny that it is. This is all solved in the frameworks of the institutions of replica, not That's what we'll do after the next parliamentary elections. ... [[The intruders don't understand.]] After the next parliamentary elections, as nothing is likely to change. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now it's time for me to interrupt the session of my dilemma, so let's continue at 15 o'clock or Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic will come. Here you go. You've already solved the dilemma.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54414	Thank you very much. Here is not to spend all 10 minutes, let me just a few notes about this report, which I find all 165 pages hard to believe when a man sees such a bookshop, with great care, because it represents a kind of sociological representation of Croatia and those of other Croatia, the one that exists all around us, as is evident from the information that is being given here and the cases that are being given. Which is not clear. What you can't see are reports of the extent of the actual violations of the fundamental human rights of Croatian citizens, how large is Croatia. Looking at the data, let's say, about the complaints that went from the prison system, I think it's 233 complaints, which makes twenty-one people who are currently inside the hospital's penal system can be assumed that it's not a thousand 665 cases, but 20 times the number of people, because those who appear to the attorney are not just people who are in some state of serious harm in their human rights, but it's also about people who know they have someone to complain to, and there's a lot of people who don't actually recognize the institutions or don't believe that they can exercise some of their right. What can we do with this report? We can do a few things as this debate today shows. We can ignore that report's writing. Every year, you write your ombudsman reports, send it to Parliament, we take that into consideration and move on. Bad strategy. We can deny what it says. Telling your brother is exaggerating, it's just a black show. Well, he's not gonna talk about positive cases, he's talking, that's why he's here talking about negative cases, human rights violations. We can justify in this debate, colleagues in the position have an irresistible need to justify institutions that individuals, ministries that have not done their job, or are not doing it. He can, as the opposition tends to use actually a report to accuse the government. I don't think that's a good strategy. I think the true meaning of what the civil defender warns about should be to mobilize all institutions, if you want this Parliament, the government, the local authorities to do things to make things better. That's the point. I like my colleagues who say, "Here comes when the power of things changes." But then there will be human rights violations. I have no illusions about it and citizens know it, but what can be done. The difference between governments can be that one respects these findings and treats them by removing them or neglecting them. There's a fundamental difference. What my colleagues mentioned, let's just say that I don't take too much time, just two areas that are particularly significant to me because it seems to me that these may be at this point and the most unprotected groups of people. The point is, I know this field well, about people living in the field of special state care. In particular here I think of people of Serbian nationality returnees in the area of Banovina, Kordun, etc., who in the summer of the Lord, 15 years after the completion of operations live in villages where there is no electricity, no water, no asphalt, and they had it before the war. It can't be an excuse anymore, it can't be any more justification, nor can it be that local self-government or I don't know local defense units have no money, it's no longer an excuse. We have to tell these people either you live here or you don't live there. Or you will live with dignity, it is a disgrace and shame for Croatia in the 21st century that people live without water and without electricity, that children walk 10, 15 km. Well, that's the stories we read about the early 20th century, not the 21st. A whole series of things can be solved, it doesn't work out. And we need to determine who's responsible. And another area that's really shocking, that's how we actually operate that prison system. Information that in a mammal's prison in a room of what he says, in room no. 15 twelve people live at 26 square meters. 12 people per 26 square meters. Well, that looks scary. Anything else listed here in the report. He says, during a prison examination in Split in room No. 2 only a few inches from the head of the prisoner who was lying on the bed floor was hanging a plastic bag full of fluid pouring from the sanitary node of the room from the top floor. In all rooms the air is asphyxiated despite the large number of fans etc. Well, people, that's our company. Well, that's inadmissible stuff. Behind this he can't say... no we've heard it and forgotten it. This report must therefore be followed by concrete action. The way prisoners are treated is completely against the law. And they are the same by the same rules as the convicts and prisoners. Regretts to the vacancy attorney and then sanctioning that prisoner who appeared and harassed and in various ways stifling these people. These are, as I would say, exactly in these cases, the civilization of society is seen in these situations. If we don't recognize it as signs by the road, if we don't recognize it as things that talk about society as a whole, then we're on a bad track and we're on a bad track. I'm finishing up, full support report. I think it's conscious, correct, honest and very professionally done. I think that beyond any political give God qualifications and classifications this report should be seen and that both opposition and position should accept it not as an argument for mutual political competition but as a guideline of what we all do together if we want to live in a more prosperous country, better than what this report shows. I'm saying, I don't know what kind of Croatia is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54415	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session, continuing at 3:00. It's Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. We are continuing the session with a debate on the 2009 report on the work of the Ombudsman. It's Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54417	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Public Advocate with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. So first of all, I will say that before us the report on the work of the Ombudsman for the past 2009 which, as in recent years, was made by the same methodology, covered the business of his work, work and systematized according to the type of complaints received and processed. And this year's report, i.e. last year's report, contains reviews, proposals and recommendations of the Ombudsman, with whom, as we could hear during the debate, as clubs or as representatives, we agreed more or less individually or disagreed. We have also received an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that is very precise about certain allegations, and the findings of the Ombudsman. What I think is missing from the report, that it would be complete, information on the financial operations of the Ombudsman, as also indicated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its opinion. I believe, of course, that all other beneficiaries of the state budget that submit the report to the Croatian Parliament should also include financial operations in their annual reports so that we in the Assembly can see the justification and way of spending the appropriations. The 2009 Pugid's Attorney General's report states that a thousand 655 complaints were received in his office, which is 95 more than in 2008, when there were a thousand 560. There is therefore a tendency to report, to reduce complaints based on previous years, so in the last year the complaints were 678, unfounded 473, and 52, while in 2008, the complaints were three times higher. The report also states that the largest number of complaints made, that it refers to the length of the procedure, primarily the second-degree, 20% of complaints refer to the work of the courts and that it is in agreement with the founding of the Advocate General, the reason why corruption is high in the judiciary. I will stress the fact that, compared to previous years, complaints about the length of the proceedings have been reduced, this is certainly the last novel of the Law on Courts, which the Croatian Parliament adopted in December last year, and which allows the party to exercise the right to compensation for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period, as well as the responsibility of the judge for non-compliance. In my further discussion, I would like to refer to some findings in a report that I personally disagree with. I hope that my disagreement will not be seen as a pressure on an independent institution, as the different opinions of the representatives in this report are characterized, because as a representative of the position in this House I have the right to disagree and a different opinion, I guess it is not only the exclusive right of opposition MPs. So, for example. They cannot agree with the Ombudsman's finding that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has allowed the political appointed officials to remain in the leading functions as top civil servants under the most favourable conditions than those applicable to other civil servants. That this is about some kind of vicious cycle of shifts and setting up their politically similar and personal loyal individuals, so I quote the reports. I don't think that's true. In such cases, public tenders were conducted in accordance with objective criteria, according to the provisions of the Civil Service Act. Only former officials who had been civil servants prior to their appointment had the right of deployment in office, provided that there was a place of employment in the body where they were in the service and if they met the prescribed professional conditions. It is also a question of the status of officials who have been resolved, who before the appointment was an official, precisely and clearly regulates the Law on the handover of authorities. In the government's opinion are these questions and... They explain exactly, but above all, because of the public and because of the correctness of the information, I wanted to repeat them and emphasize them again. [[You don't understand.]] I am also surprised by the position of the Ombudsman in the area of spatial planning and construction, where he realizes that the proceedings take an unreasonable length of time, although it is unequivocal and clear that they take place within the framework of legal deadlines or that the legal deadlines for execution have not passed. I also find it incomprehensible to refer the complainant to a lawsuit for illegal action against the ministry without these charges having any legal basis. Is it not unnecessary to generate new court disputes, with a very certain outcome, of course, to the harm of citizens. Some findings in this report, for example, I will quote that there are no effective mechanisms in place, that those judges who cannot meet the necessary criteria of expertise, quality, independence, impartiality are removed from the system, that the assessments of the need to depolitise the state administration, strengthen the judicial administration and strengthen the role of the Supreme Court are contested. So this refers to the 2008 report. That a new large division of Croatian society was created, which will overpower all other divisions, which is divided into poor and weak and rich and powerful. So, these findings are, in my opinion, incorrect, or purely political. Unfortunately, such expressions serve some primarily for daily policy purposes, as a basis for political reckoning and manipulation, for politicizing which ultimately does not result in any concrete or constructive solutions. That's why I don't think there's room for such grades in this and this kind of report in general, especially if it crosses the scope of the jurisdiction of individual bodies. Finally, I would like to say that it is obvious that, given the debate so far, once again as last year when voting on this report, there will be different views on how to deal with it, accept it or take it into consideration. Personally, I can hardly accept the findings and assessments that I don't think they stand for, that they are not true or that they are the result of someone's political assessments that I absolutely disagree with and as such I reject them. That is why I will vote on receiving this report on the work of the 2009 Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54418	Thank you. Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54419	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that this report on the work of the Attorney General was made very extensively. We have a series of data that are shown in numbers, tables, and descriptions and depictions of specific objects. The report says citizens still lack knowledge about the institution of the occupier despite media presence. The report pays more attention to the areas which, by the number of complaints or their importance, pointed to the need to invest additional efforts to improve the protection of human rights. As in earlier years, issues such as legal security and equality of citizens, efficiency, urgency, shortcomings in the normative system or in its application are concerned. This report is based primarily on complaints from citizens, so they cannot be considered a full assessment of the human rights situation. When comparing statistical indicators from previous years, it is seen to improve the overall situation compared to previous years. The first indicator in the report is that the share of complaints assessed was reduced and the share of those assessed by the Ombudsman was increased. In 2009, 1655 complaints were received, which is 100 more than in 2008. 1230 were resolved, and 425 were still in the work. The judiciary is concerned with 334 complaints, and I believe that this is not too many because let's face it that our whole life is covered by cases, for example, when you take out your passport, your ID card, you change your identity card, you report the birth of a child, God forbid you report the fact of death, all of these are administrative procedures, all of it is management, and I would disagree that we can, by these complaints, evaluate the real state of things. Like some colleagues used to say before me. For example, when we look at the complaint table, we see that in the pension number of complaints, more than half of what makes me happy. The report shows that the largest number of complaints are focused on the work of the judiciary, but it should be made clear that a very effective reform is being implemented in the judiciary that will allow for more efficient and faster work of courts in solving cases that are still, we must say, there are plenty. The largest number of complaints, I must point out here, comes from the City of Zagreb while in other cities it is significantly smaller that we can interpret the same in 2 different ways. Whether it came to the fact that the City of Zagreb has the largest number of inhabitants or is the reason for the price of municipal services, colleagues are not funny, that is, the fact that they are significantly higher than in other parts of Croatia and are paid to the City of Zagreb, and they are not absolutely available to the citizens or not using them as visible in the reports. I would like to give just one example of what is currently an example in the area of New Zagreb east, Novi Zagreb west and Brezovica area. It's just these days that the garbage bill came in. And what does the receipts say? The account is the same price, but the citizens of that area, so not only do those neighborhoods have to drive bulk waste to places that are designated by the Headship or by the Mayor, I don't know from whom, or from the President of the City Assembly that they have to drive to the places where they are intended. These places are even private property. And now look at the wonders, the more these citizens, they're kind of underrated and these citizens are absolutely discriminated against. The same price, the same account, but they must drive waste to those places that are designated by the manager of the City of Zagreb. It's discrimination. It is also in the report, I would like to highlight and single out, an area related to property seized during the communist Yugoslavia. It is evident that for this area the number of new complaints received was 21, and in total with complaints from previous years there were 31 in the processing or nearly half of the total number of new complaints received. The complaints made by citizens to the Ombudsman concern mainly the lengthening of proceedings before the first-degree and second-degree bodies as well as the obstruction in the conduct of the recovery proceedings and the lack of satisfaction of previous owners regarding the obstructions of the return of agricultural land. However, it should be pointed out that local units have a major impact on the return of agricultural land because it is available to them. For example, as in the City of Zagreb, areas of agricultural land in Cupinec Kraljec and Brezovica. In this problem, in order to speed up the return of agricultural land and return to the real owners of the area, there is also in the Ministry of Justice. at the Civil Law Administration. Several cases have been mentioned in the report, but I am not going to convince them, but I am glad that the full reform of the judiciary is being successfully implemented. Given my shortened debate and demonstration, I can take pleasure and dissatisfaction in this report and I take note of the 2009 Ombudsman's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54420	Thank you. Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54421	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General with his associates. Well, I think that while you were doing this report, while you were receiving complaints, or complaints from our fellow citizens, that you were as sad as we all read this report, and we read it from page one to the last. Just because more and more deputies say that the government took note, I'm afraid you might need a lawyer as a lawyer. But let's go back to this report that's full of violations of law. Then you can see frequent repetitions of the problems you have previously faced, which have not responded to, or the tromo is responding. As you said yourself, we see critical points in the functioning of the system, ie failures and weaknesses in the work of the service. My colleagues have referred to various areas, and I will look back on the area of social care. Namely, this report of yours shows a deep understanding of the circumstances in which social care and social protection work. This set of examples of irregularities primarily at the social care centre shows several facts, which is that the welfare system has turned into a large bureaucratic machine that is its own purpose. I've spoken to my fellow social workers from that center, and it's also confirmed by them. There's more work to be done. There's more custody. They simply cannot carry out this task that the system has set up for them because of various administrative jobs. It is a system that is supposed to protect human rights, but it violates them unfortunately in the area where it should be strongest, which is in the powerless, in the mentally ill, mentally retarded. It refers to custody, these children in the divorce process. This is what I'm reading from this report for two reasons. Sometimes it's an unhappiness of employees in the welfare system, but from certain complaints you can see the possible criminal spray of people from the welfare center, with lawyers and notaries who, of course, come from a position of power and have almost no control at all. The question is what is the system of administrative oversight, or internal surveillance within the center, by reading or looking at these examples that you have cited. The question is also why did the social care reform that began 10, 11 years ago not end? When we talk about reform in the government's response, it is seen that this is going in the direction of deinstitutionalisation and primarily institutionalisation through social care homes, that they have begun to organise themselves into non-institutional services. In fact, they began to provide extra-institutional services at their homes, such as helping him in the house. However, we wonder what the fulfillment of the social care home is like after 90 years of this reform, are waiting lists for homes shorter or are they still longer? So I think that reform is a trom, and it didn't really move much from 10 years ago. I'm not going to talk about the help that's proposed here. She mentioned it before. I also have to say that there is a certain improvement in the overall situation compared to earlier years, but it is thus expressed that dissatisfaction is precisely with the slowness that these positive shifts occur. Despite repeated warnings of such phenomena, there is no information on whether certain cases have been taken up, that is, by the competent national authorities. I would ask how many directors were fired if there were such discrimination, malversions, etc. within their houses. Then just as the punishment of the officers who were in these shops, how many people were called to account, according to the counsel's recommendation? I'm asking with the same question as how did the departments react to the counsel's recommendations? So we have a lot of open questions left. Well done, you're doing your job. I'm sorry that at first I told as many colleagues as I could just take note of this report and doubt the credibility of it. Of course, I, like my colleagues on this side, accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54422	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović-Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54423	Well, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the report from the civil defender we're discussing today, and we see that it is primarily based on complaints from citizens, and special attention is given to areas that have been under the number of complaints indicating the need to invest additional efforts to improve the protection of human rights. The most common issues, i.e. the problems encountered by Croatian citizens, are the efficiency of the work bodies, shortcomings in the normative system or its application. The Ombudsman states in the report that about 100 complaints were collected in 2009 more than in 2008 but still, according to the Ombudsman, it encourages the fact that there is a certain improvement in the overall situation compared to the previous year, indicating that the share of complaints assessed was reduced and that the proportion of those assessed as unfounded was increased. But what remains a major problem, and where progress has not been made, and what has been warned in this report so far is the problem of long-term conduct before the competent authorities especially in front of the administrative and judicial authorities, so I must say justice in Croatia is almost unattainable, which violates constitutional principles, on the right of everyone to a fair trial and within a reasonable time. There are no significant shifts as it arises from this report but it doesn't even need to surprise us because the public defender himself has the same problem. Namely, the obstacle to more effective work in the cases as it states in this report is the fact that the competent authorities do not respond on an up-to-date basis to the requests of the Ombudsman, i.e. they do not respect the legal deadlines. The occupier has namedly stated what the ministries are and are acting like, and there are those who are totally deaf to his demands. So if the institution of the attorney general is not respected, it would really be illusory to expect to be treated differently with Croatian citizens. That is exactly the kind of treatment that shows the general position of this government towards an institution that is in many cases the last haven for the achievement of their fundamental rights for Croatian citizens. As I said, it is evident that the longevity of administrative procedures is at the hands of citizens, one of the biggest problems in the work of administrative bodies, and it is repeated year after year. And I have to say that no significant shifts have been made in this area, no matter how many new employees have come, no matter how busy these people are in the administrative bodies, administrative procedures are still too long, which means, obviously, no matter how many people who work there are obviously people who are probably not professional enough to process certain of these items. What is a particular problem, which citizens cannot learn at all, i.e. to obtain information at which stage of resolution is their subject. And we're seeing the same problem as the attorney general. A particular problem is certainly the long-standing conduct in front of the administrative court where proceedings take years. Nothing better is in the judiciary either, but it is precisely this impeccableness in solving the case mainly applies to small ordinary citizens, while on the other hand those who have influence and power are very quick to resolve their submissions, i.e. their demands. All of this naturally favours corruption and clientelism in these bodies, and the reason for this should be sought in the fact that both the administration and the judiciary are, according to the Ombudsman's report, and further politicised. That's what the Attorney General is talking about. In my further discussion, I would like to refer to the report on official and labour relations, since I have been a civil servant for many years, and this relationship is really close and familiar to me. We see from the report that the complaints of the officials referred to a violation of the rights in percentages of state service admissions, illegal suspension of tender procedures, evaluation procedures and others. The Ombudsman himself finds that laws that regulate official and labour legislation have often been amended, and this has resulted in infringements of the rights of state officials, which again raises the issue of a professional and effective public administration, which is primarily a service to citizens for the exercise of their rights. That's how it's supposed to be. We see from the report further that despite the fact that the 2005 State Employees Act has left the unconditional right to suspend the tender procedure where the reception procedure can be suspended only if a sufficient number of candidates are not registered or if the applicants do not meet the formal conditions prescribed by that tender or have not achieved satisfactory test results. Even so, tender procedures continue to be suspended frequently. This is certainly due to the fact that in competitions as one of the most important conditions, although not prescribed as a reception condition, the condition of political similarity should be met. So I know that in certain tenders several candidates met all the requirements, they had conditions regarding both professional calling and years of work experience and professional exams passed, but the tenders were simply suspended, no one was accepted by these tenders. The only reason we can conclude from this is that these persons were obviously not politically alike. That's how it's been done in the state administration since 2003 since HDZ came to power. This proves that it does not matter at all that the said job that should have been filled will not be filled, which is why citizens will not be able to exercise their rights in time. That's obviously not what the current government is interested in. I argue responsibly because, I say for 24 years, I was an employee of the state service and I witnessed that a lot of competitions had been annulled precisely for those reasons that people who had all the formal conditions simply did not have a political resemblance. I'm not saying it in my head. So all that matters is that you're politically decent and then your job at the state administration is guaranteed. That's what the lawyer himself says because he gets complaints from candidates who complain about it, of course it's not clear to the officers why they haven't been received, and the answer to that question is certainly the political resemblance I was just talking about. And worse yet, no form of legal protection is allowed against such decisions to suspend tender procedures and there is the possibility of political discrimination. So the government's opinion on the defence counsel's remarks is only to call for legal regulations that the same government or resolute ministries do not respect. Furthermore, I would like to say something in my debate about the report, on page 84, under the name "Local Officers and Deputys", where I quote the Ombudsman as saying: "The problem of the director" means the head of the administrative bodies in the county and in the cities, and says that the head of local and regional self-government units almost regularly resolves the arrival of newly elected leaders, and thus is less and less appointed from the order of professionals, which indirectly affects the quality of citizens' rights before the administrative authorities of those units. The infringement of the rights that occur in this way is generally left unprotected, and no sanctions are prescribed against the head of the bodies that make illegal decisions on the appointment or resolution of the headmaster, or measures are taken on the basis of other regulations. The Advocate General warns that the scope of the official legislation, both local and state officials, must prescribe responsibility and sanctions for the adoption of illegal solutions, including unit executives and because the new ZUP is subject to the protection procedure against the so-called illegal actions. Why did I just take an example of local self-government? I have to say here for an illustration, in my Virovitica-Podrava County, exactly what Mr. Police Attorney wrote here happened after the last local elections. First, the head of the agricultural management department was fired, and afterwards my colleague, my SDP party colleague, who was an expert associate in agriculture, his place of employment was abolished. So, only two of the county's employees after the last local elections were out of a job. I must say that it means that the person whose place of work has been abolished has worked in the agriculture management department, that in that management department for the agriculture of my county, which is the agricultural county has not left any, or is not the systematic job of the farm reference. He therefore dared to be a candidate for the head of a municipality of Suhopolje and thus was punished, and the penalty came in the worst form for a man who could be, and that was fired. But that's not the end of the story. Of course, the person complained, the court's verdict came, however, so the mayor means the executive authority's holder has disobeyed the administrative court's verdict. The verdict calls for the prosecutor to be respected and does not want to issue a new solution within a 30-day legal period. I just wanted to make an example of my county to illustrate exactly what Mr. Public Attorney said in his report. Yeah, I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54424	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54425	Can I have some more? Just give me a little more. As stated in the report, no one can... I'd like to say something about the case of job cuts, just give me a minute, that's it. Because part of the officials, according to the occupier, had obtained the right to schedule official jobs without competition. As indicated in the report, no one can be admitted to the state service without competition, including state officials who have become civil servants. I'm only going to end now, since I'm running out of time, I say, I'm only interested in how state officials could have been admitted to the jobs of civil servants without a competition. Because as far as I'm aware of, the state service can only be returned, without a tender, only a person who worked in the state service who concluded a job return agreement like I did before I entered the Assembly made such an agreement, and as far as I know, the state officials, so the former secretaries had no such agreements, which meant that they needed to be conducted in fact in order to be admitted to those jobs. Thank you very much. I'm a little short.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54426	Did you cut it a little short? Then we'll continue with six corrections. First Mrs. Representative Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54427	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The first amendment concerns this reduction of the colleague's debate. I want to correct in a series of allegations that are to correct the one in which my colleague said that joining the state administration requires a political resemblance and that it is in part or in force since 2003. You guys still said you were a witness. I also appreciate that you have experience in this. I appreciate your experience and I ask you to respect the experience and others. The first and basic thing is that this is incorrect, because if you wanted to take a look at it then you would see that just one other party in 2000 introduced transparent public procurements in which only the political likeness could have been accepted into the state administration. And the other thing is that I have experience and that I felt the party acting on my skin. In 1998, in the local self-government of Slavonski Brod, I was removed from the post of head of the Management Department for Social Activities. Therefore, your allegations are not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54428	Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54429	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague said in her discussion that since 2003 people have been admitted to jobs in political likeness and even without competition. My colleagues, that's not true. You know that's not true. I'm sure you're whispering now because you're aware that you've told the truth, but I'll tell you the fact and accuracy. I ask you to come with me, I am making myself available to you to go with me to Zagreb Holding and to find an employee who is not a member of the SDP. Come on, I'll make myself available.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54430	Okay. Go ahead, then, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54431	Find me one who's not a member of the SDP. And you know what level to? To the street cleaners. Do you know that? Is that what Mr. Shmrem told you?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54432	All right, goddess, then get on with it, on patrol and find out who's here. Mr. Representative Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54433	One in a number of incorrect allegations from a colleague who said exactly what my colleagues had fixed about the political resemblance to employment in the state administration. I mean, I can't believe that every topic that's been held in the House is being held by such party lectures, and if a colleague saw it, she knows it where she lives and works, and if she knew what happened in Sibenik where almost all the directors were valued, they had to resign before the mandate expired to get SDP-like people's SDPs, it's normal when SDP works, and everything else is giving political speeches and getting cheap points with the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54434	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54435	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, most of the time, colleagues have corrected that incorrect assumption. You insist that since 2003, competitions for the state service have been annulled, which is not true. My colleague, on his skin as a civil servant, and later the head of the local administration, I experienced the administrative opposite. So I'm really surprised that you, as a representative of the SDP, don't talk at party meetings with your local self-government leaders. So you have my mayor, Lovric, who cancels two, three contests every other day. And you also have a case that if it doesn't belong to the SDP, it can't be in Sisak-Moslavina County for seven years now to get a job, a new job. So, my colleagues, let's talk about it. I'm correcting an incorrect allegation that is not true that only similar people are hired by the state administration today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54436	Mr. Representative Damir Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54437	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Davor Huška. I'll correct the same assumption. Local and state officials are also named after political resemblance. I thought I'd say that's not exactly the rule, but these corrections by my colleague confirms that it's where it's in power in local and regional self-government units of the SDP. And apparently a colleague has a lot of experience about that part, so she talked about those cases. An excellent example is the Požeko-Slavon County which is in the last local elections when for the mayor in those elections he won the SDP for the mayor was chosen by our current colleague Zdravko Ronko who overnight swept literally 50% of the county's employees, almost all directors of the institution whose founder and, of course, by political likeness received new employees, tenants, directors and all others. Here's a very good example right here in favor of your exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54438	Mr. Representative Ivo Scissor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also correct Mrs Cavlovic if local self-government units were employed in political likeness. On the contrary, I am surprised at the fact that this is now being talked about before Croatia's entry into the European Union, as if we were going back to some time before the 1990s when it took even a moral-political resemblance to any place. Well, for example, a surgeon at the hospital needed that similarity, and so did a hospital porter. I am responsible for saying that in the Split-Dalmatia County, I do not know the examples that someone has been removed because he is not morally-politicalally-like or politically-like and that this is something completely unknown. On the contrary, all SDP people as far as I've known since '93. the year since the county was formed and to this day they are in their places, if they haven't even got better places. And also in my 15-year-old city, that concept is completely unknown to me. I don't even know what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54440	In the constitutions until the 1990s, he was the Institute of Moral-political Similarity. It was in the Constitution of the SFRY and the SRH, and when I came out of one educational institution where I didn't really resociate myself then I applied for the competition, for ads for about a thousand jobs, from market cleaners, auxiliary warehouse worker and undertakers and undertakers of the deceased and various similar great occupations, and I failed at no competition, nor in this ad because I had no moral political similarities. And then I filed a constitutional suit to the Constitutional Court of Croatia to assess the constitutionality of certain provisions of the SRH Constitution with the SFRJ Constitution that it, the moral-political resemblance that it is not compatible with the equality of citizens, and then it is an honorable and high-minded Constitutional Court of Croatia in '88. The year said it was according to the Constitution, several states did, and therefore, but there was almost a change in course, so the Constitutional Court and these constitutional judges came and went. ... There's only a moral resemblance to that, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's still on the undertaker's post board and the deceased's carrier president told me that you came back from a black house, you're not alike. And I said I'd bury it day and night, especially if it's about executives. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54441	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Pucci's Honorable Attorney-General with his associates. I'll do something shorter since it's afternoon. In fact, the Ombudsman's institution is very important, we all know it, we discuss it every year, this one report that always triggers a number of controversy and so I would say the conflicts of opinion both by the representatives and obviously by the board, by the government, etc. Namely, the Ombudsman with his associates is doing an extremely important job, primarily he should be important to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as he points to all the problems facing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to all the bad things in the system that should be done in the interests of Croatian citizens, and who should solve these problems rather than deepen them, to create them in a certain way, and sometimes what is most difficult for citizens to say and hide from the public. What we're looking at last year's report and this year's report should be seen is a few differences. I also debated last year on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club and through an individual debate, and I find it very interesting that the majority of the debate was led on the subject of the majority's position that a report by the Ombudsman would take note of it rather than accept it. And what was interesting last year was the seven committees discussing a report by the Attorney General, the three committees were in favour of accepting and four to take note. This year, two committees discussed it, the parent board, the Committee on Human Rights, the rights of national minorities and the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries, and the rest of the title. This year, however, we have, as an important segment of the entire agenda item, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on pages 25, 26, 27. And what is obvious from the debate so far, above all individual debates, is that it is quite a bit, I would say even more of the attention of representatives from the ruling group was, in fact, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that is, more of a reference to this document than to a document called the Ombudsman's report. What's the result? So now we see how the debate develops, that more and more advocates of the ruling majority tend to re-emerge to the opinion or the attitude to take note of it, although these two committees have accepted the report from the attorney general, so, uh, here, my colleagues have sent me from the HDZ Representatives' Club to take note. So it prevailed. It was just a question after these discussions, and after everything else when it would happen. Okay. The one you're obviously waiting for. As far as the entire report is concerned, namely the report is a very serious matter, and unfortunately it turns a little bit into something that is conditionally said conflict, what I said last year to the last haven of Croatian citizens and the ruling furniture in such a way that here the institution or what fellow Lesar notes and this time in his debate, our deputizer, therefore the Croatian Parliament, re-offices us that what he does is not quite right, should more respect the opinion of the system, the government's opinion, the opinion of the ministries, and he says that some ministries are not doing well or at least some people in the ministries. And that's why when we look at the overall report, first of all, the government's relationship, the ruling majority in the parliament, the ministry institutions and everything else towards the Ombudsman, we see that it's the same, so the relationship is the same as last year, as it was last year. The problems of non-cooperation with certain ministers, state secretaries, ministries as a whole, with the Ombudsman of the People's Republic remains the same, the length of the procedure indicated by the Ombudsman remains the same, objections to civil rights violations, in connection with fundamental human rights violations remain the same. The proposals of the Ombudsman for more concrete steps, for a more concrete question of responsibility, with a view to resolving them are still the same. But all this really turns into something that's becoming our routine, which is not good, and that's why my colleague Igor Dragovan who spoke for the club and who said that this point shouldn't be a routine point that we're going to do and then we're going to move on. It shouldn't be such a point. We need to ask ourselves again what it is that prevents certain institutions, primarily the ministry and certain administrations of the ministries, from solving the problems of Croatian citizens faster, more effectively, more correctly, to look back at what the citizens are asking through the Ombudsman to do in terms of their rights and to do so? After all, that's why the ministry exists. But again, I say, we get the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which says so, it's not quite so, Mr. Attorney General didn't get it well, he didn't read it right here, he didn't appreciate the arguments here, we absolutely reject it here, etc. It's not weird to me, because ultimately, that opinion was created by the same people who were supposed to do a certain job. It is easier to sit down and find an excuse, the reasons for not doing something than to do a job and then send it to the Croatian Parliament where we know that there are, of course, people who will have to do it through some terrible or any other reason to support it. What I'd say is that we're obviously going round and round about things, and these things are that we need to listen more seriously to what it is that bothers citizens, respect their problems and solve them. Especially at this time when the economic situation is much worse than last year, etc. Anything else I'd say would already be repeating what my predecessors are, what they pointed to. There's one detail that I'm looking forward to, and that's that the attorney general is reacting to certain events that happen every day. I'd point out one detail: it's to reacting to a public defender's statement by an economic expert at the end of last year on the need to restrict the right of voice to elderly persons. Starting with my parents through everyone else I talked to at the time was very difficult to welcome that a prominent economic expert says that people of older age should not be, that they should be limited to the right to vote because they are conditionally burdened, they have a very big influence on choosing and are no longer economically capable. On that occasion, I wondered who would react to it. I was glad to see that just now the Ombudsman had responded in an appropriate way, pointing out that equality as a fundamental constitutional right is guaranteed what does not allow such statements. Whether it's some kind of personal attitude or some general attitude, but I was also sorry to see that such a single statement got a lot of space in the media, that almost all the relevant media transmitted that statement as something interesting. So, I said it was good that Mr. Attorney General and his office, his associates, were awake at all times and responded to these and similar statements. There were statements and responses to our one minister, etc. And I'll say I accept this report entirely. That I wish Mr. Public Attorney and his associates long and successful work in the way that is only possible, which is to point to everything that is wrong and what needs to be corrected. And I also want the Government of the Republic of Croatia and us in the Croatian Parliament to listen a little more and we help each and every one in our abilities to solve certain injustices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54442	Thank you. One correction, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a fellow MP who incorrectly said that there's still a lack of urgency as high as possible, that there's still no communication from the government with the citizens, with the attorney general. It's simply not true because I'm reading a report by the attorney general that says, at the same time, it should be said, and that's evident from the statistics shown that the number of complaints we've assessed is reduced. This relates to the overall improved urgency, but also to better communication of administrative bodies with citizens, partly thanks to the continued insistence of the Ombudsman on the legal obligation that they are obliged in the event that they cannot resolve the parties, etc. So there are also a number of places in this report that have still been reported improvements compared to the previous year. And you didn't have to wait for a written conclusion, a proposal for a conclusion, I told the HDZ Club's position at the beginning of the debate about receiving knowledge and I said clearly and the reasons why not. That's why the report on specific human rights violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54444	When those times... to submit to the Assembly and to the Assemblys of the socio-political communities reports and to conclude that the number of complaints is increasing year by year, that the number of complaints is then estimated to be an increased number of complaints about labour rights violations, etc., that this is the result of trust in the socialist system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the increased number of complaints is an expression of confidence. So is this expression of trust then. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54445	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the vacancy attorney with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, indeed, this report sort of gives a review of the data on respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens. However, since it is based primarily on complaints from citizens and the Ombudsman himself says the report cannot be considered as a complete overall assessment of the human rights situation. However, we can feel that each year is really getting better. One of the indicators is the decrease in the number of complaints assessed as being based, and the proportion of those assessed by the Ombudsman was increased. After the Law on Discontinuation of Discrimination entered into force on 01 January 2009, the Ombudsman also became the central authority for the prevention of discrimination. A significant part of the complaint by the Ombudsman continues to relate to the conduct of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, i.e. the Administration of the Special Government and the Department of House Reconstruction. It is apparent that the number of complaints relating to the Administration for the Special State Care Area is continuously reduced. From 116 cases in 2008 to 40 complaints in 2009 Of which 28 related to housing, 7 for the return of temporary property, 4 for the status rights of exiles and 1 for the area of housing. The most long-term cases are related to the return of temporarily occupied assets which unfortunately last long because they are related to the conduct of court proceedings and indeed there should be something done to shorten these court proceedings. In total, 22 court proceedings are under way for the immigration of temporary users and 17 proceedings relating to unauthorized investment in busy assets. All disputes regarding that property after 5. Seven. In 1998, they can only be dealt with at the competent municipal court. The report shows that part of the request was resolved where the owners agreed to extrajudicial settlements, and others could not be completed because owners or users want to wait for court rulings, expecting a higher amount of increased fees. The Ministry of Regional Reasons received a large number of applications for housing of 61,000 247 have been resolved 37,000 703, as I have already said 33,000 and 22 have been resolved positively. I would especially like to list the area of Pacrac where three thousand houses were built. Unfortunately, when you pass Pacraca, those houses are empty, but the mold is caught because they really aren't aired, and over 300 from it has already been sold. The procedures for housing are very complex. It is areas affected by the war, inaccessible documents make communication difficult, but only a few cases are in resolution longer than the prescribed legal deadline. The majority refers to the requirement for housing, referring to the assignment of construction material, as well as the exit of the commission. The Ombudsman's report also notes progress in resolving the second-degree case in the field of work of the Agency for Reconstruction as well as the involvement of a larger number of perpetrators in these jobs. A report relating to persons deprived of liberty can also be said that during 2009, the Administration of the Prison System has taken measures to increase the capacity for the purposes of accommodation of prisoners, and in order to reduce overcrowding in prisons and penitentiary facilities. In 2009, the construction of a new building was also started in a penitentiary in Glina for the accommodation of 420 prisoners. During 2009, preparations for the construction of a new building in Zagreb were started for 376 prisoners, the re-purpose and adaptation of certain premises in prisons and penitentiary facilities in 2009 increased accommodation facilities in the penitentiary in Valtura by 27, the Varazdin prison by 37, etc. I'd also like to refer to the health care review. I would point out that despite the lack of health care professionals, a doctor in the prison system during 2009 is indeed provided to all inmates with a large number of reviews. Although there were no doctors, a health service contract was made, an example of 113 thousand examinations of general medical examinations, dental 7 thousand 900, 25 thousand psychiatric, 6 thousand 400 laboratory examinations, etc. ... referred to social care centres that really do, and I agree with over 150 public powers and other jobs. And I think it's a huge job. We ourselves know that there are not enough experts and that it is very difficult to perform quality. One of the activities is to put under the care of persons who are deprived of their business skills and to control the work of custodians. However, for such persons, their relatives, acquaintances, etc. are not interested. and the centers themselves are forced to appoint a guardian from the centre workers, so-called. direct custody, which in some ways tells us everything that we need to look for new solutions. Paliatical care and the state of the powerless. In 2001, 15.7% of the population was over 65 years old. We need to know that only 2% of really old people live in homes. The constant growth of old people also points to certain changes that must be made although the government's project of the Ministry of Family and Defence, social care centres networks, programmes outside the institutional care provided by homes for older and powerless persons, the Croatian Red Cross and Croatian Caritas. However, it is still little to make sure everything is taken care of. It is true that the goal is to reduce the entry into institutions and to allow these institutions to leave. However, since no system in the world or in Europe has resolved this until the end. But many things are self-involved. Well, it's a good thing you mentioned those hostels, but I'm sorry you didn't mention what you were already doing. "Plegeversicherung" or insurance insurance for care. No healthcare system will be able to support the fact that it is outside the institution and is receiving adequate care. And so it goes that these sick people are dying at home really under full care and attention because they deserve it. As far as health care is concerned, you stated that during 2009, only 33 complaints were received, and I am really happy about it. Especially since you looked at a neuropsychiatric hospital in Popovachi that has extremely difficult patients. During the examination, you talked to individual patients and none of the patients complained about problems with other patients, and no complaints were received about the doctor’s approach. In fact, some patients stress a good relationship between psychiatrists and nurses with patients. It is really nice to hear what it says, however, that this health system is worth even dare to say export value not only in Zagreb but also in other areas of our country. And finally, I am really sorry that this report has one impression that, on the basis of individual examples, some general decisions are made. Maybe that's one of the reasons we're gonna keep this report in the loop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54446	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54447	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Caparin, made a fine statement in her presentation and presented in her debate and updated the 2009 report by the 2009 Public Prosecutor with information about how government and what the Government did during 2009 to improve the prison system, so the persons deprived of freedoms, including when it spoke of social care, social care centres, and some other areas that the Government had given in its opinion, in which it pointed to certain things that I said were inconclusive, inaccuracies observed in this report. However, what I want to say to my colleagues is that it seems to me and that at least I think I am wrong, that all of this information is that he knew, that they were known or should have been known to the Office of the Attorney General, so when he talks about this, when the report gives an overview of the state, violation or respect of individual rights of citizens, that this report would be in a very different tone of day, and that the picture of the situation in Croatia would be significantly different that this was respected. And finally, one more thing, even this 2009 report does not know or give us information about the financial operations of the Office of the Public Attorneys, except by saying how much funding was planned. We have no idea how much it's been spent on. In addition to being said again at the beginning of the 2009 report, the 2010 budget will require funding from the government budget reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54448	The answer to the line, ma'am...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54449	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, that's exactly how I sort of ended my exposure because there's a lot of data, a lot of special examples, individual human rights violations, about the lack of the rights of every man. However, in some ways everything that the Government has done is left out and based on what has been brought and what has been said in the previous report by the Ombudsman, and that is why the Government has written on so many pages and has written what it has done during that period. 26 pages, I mean. It's one of the basic maybes, according to me and mistakes, and I don't know why there's no financial report at the end of your report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54450	Thank you. Final review. Attorney General, Mr. Jurica Malcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54451	Thank you very much. Here at the end of this debate, I will, of course, firstly thank everyone for the contribution of the debate in which, with some of the finer charms, the actual issues of protection and the achievement of citizens' rights are predominantly dominated, regardless of their positions. These contributions of course will be useful for further work of the institution. I already said in the introduction that it would be good to have a more detailed discussion on certain issues of water and to be held before the committees in charge where certain conclusions, measures and recommendations could be made easier. The occupier will seek to encourage committees to hold such discussions throughout the year. In this regard, I will look forward and thank you first and foremost for today's adoption of an initiative that has entered the draft decision on constitutional changes that is in favour of strengthening the institution of the attorney general. This will certainly contribute to strengthening and improving the work of the Ombudsman and domestic, and I would say also in the European and international human rights protection systems. In this regard, I will also look back on today, and earlier complaints that giving general assessments comes in a certain way beyond the framework of the constitutional role and the Law on the Ombudsman, so that the Ombudsman should be excluded, limited to work and assessments on the basis of individual complaints or cases. That's what I've already made my point on the report. According to the Law on the Ombudsman, the Public Prosecutor warns the Assembly of human rights violations, which implies not only individual complaints but also a warning of a certain broader context and the causes for which human rights violations occur. I would say that the fact, and this is said today in Mrs. Lovrin's report, that the public defender, through such assessments, has encouraged a series of measures, but also legislative changes, and in a way that has been justified and well that we have dealt with such assessments. During the adoption of the Law on Discrimination, the Assembly was also manifested by giving the vacancy attorney also in this sense certain powers, and the constitutional provision already mentioned will, of course, remove all doubts in this direction. What I have to look at is a question that was with words such as flat, superficial, unargumented, which is a question of one point of view of the attorney general, which is expressed in two sentences, which is that, in practice, depolitisation should be carried out consistently. Of course, this is meant at all levels at both local and national level, because despite the normative framework there is still a lot of work left. I'd add right away that sentence is written for the future. She's not looking back. It was written and repeated in relation to last year precisely because we are facing reform, the final reform of the administration, so not only in normative but also in the real sense and it is one of the elements for completion, because I count that the negotiations will be open to Chapter 23. So, I thought it was good to announce it again. What I expected really, I say without any naiveness or any subtext, I was actually expecting the government's support, so I would also tell the Parliament about such a need to demonstrate a further willingness to depolitize the administration at all levels and in practice. I think it's kind of a rhetoric, so I'd say politics has been pretty stressed lately, and I didn't think that it would have some kind of support without realistic expectations. The rhetoric was the same in both the government and the prime minister, and I would say in the Parliament when the last changes were made to the ministers, it is very important to emphasize it as a future task and... until the end of the depoliticalization of the administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that sense, in some ways I was found to be one of the main elements of this particular assessment of the fact that the report of the Ombudsman is being taken into account, it does not accept, if I well appreciate that it is so. However, when it is said on a flat, superficial, unargumented basis, I will only warn of some legal facts. I don't know if they're all famous, but it seems to me from the exposure that we're either not familiar with them or we're completely different from legal regulations. In 2005, a Law on civil servants was adopted, explicitly saying that on the day of entry into office of the Government after the first elections since the entry into force of the law, the position of the secretary of the ministry, the Director, the Deputy Secretary, the President of the Office, etc. become the jobs of civil servants, and the current positions of ministerial assistants are being abolished. I also repeat by the provision of Article 50 of that law from 2005, a ban on the schedule of civil servants to the jobs of civil servants without the procedure of admission to the public service has been imposed. But also in this procedure, they must not have a privileged position if this or a special law is not otherwise prescribed. It's an explicit provision from 2005. So that day came 60 days after the election and entry into force of the new government. The Government has adopted a regulation under which these are also referred to the Government, and that Regulation also provides for a special tender procedure which is different from the procedure prescribed for other civil servants. So, there is no commission that determines the ranking list, which makes proposals, which conducts an interview, which does the testing, gives the number of points and makes a proposal to the head of the body. So, it was deleted and the procedure was such that the commission only lays down formal conditions, and that only an interview was conducted by a leader or a person he designated and proposed to the government. Therefore, one procedure is prescribed which is different and which is contrary to the principles of the law that was earlier. So it would be good, I said so. We've been repeating a vicious circle for years. I won't say fighting. There are serious objections to the post-government change, after changing leaders that people have instruments that can carry out their will I would say politically beyond professional these and other criteria. This observation was made in order to confirm this through this reform of the administration as a principle for which both the Government and the Parliament will advocate and I think it would be good to continue. That is why I believe that I was neither superficial nor unargumented nor that this was going beyond the authority of the attorney general. I'll just look back at one MP, I think it was Mr. Sesvečan mentioned the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Construction and so on. And he mentioned I would also say in some ways that we have unargumented and casually called the ministry in relation to the non-compliance when it comes to conclusions, about permission to execute. You have seen from our reports that after 10, 15 years we have cases where parties that really have legal interests, not evil and evil neighbors, but people who suffer the serious consequences of someone's illegal construction that can't get from the ministry answers precisely because the ministry doesn't recognise their party property. So, according to official duty, the work of a construction inspection is done. They can't. Who are they going to talk to? I'm with the Attorney General. We're, of course, on their behalf looking for certain information on the state of the case. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Civil Engineering has taken over and the Government has, with its own evidence, invited us to interpret the provisions of our law by using those provisions that we don't have to take into consideration at all if we don't want to. So, I think we should take a bit of a critical look here, too. Of course, we can have mistakes, we can in certain cases. But I'd say in most of the other bodies' obviouss, there's one understanding of the role of the attorney general. Many of those with whom we have had problems in the past today are working well with it from these obviouss. I think that cooperation is improving in a certain way. However, of course it seems not to apply to everything. In that sense, I think our findings are well-intentioned and that we, like all other bodies, understand the good interest of the Republic of Croatia but of course its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54452	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54453	We are going to the 2009 Ombudsman's report on the work of the Ombudsman, the proposer of the occupier. First of all, the HDZ Representatives Club proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion that reads: "It takes note of the 2009 report on the work of the Ombudsman. a year." Second, the club... yes, first about the first. Let's please get involved and vote on a proposal from the HDZ Representatives Club. Score. This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 74 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 30 against. The SDP representative club proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion that reads: "A 2009 report on the work of the Ombudsman is accepted. a year." Since a conclusion has been reached in the text proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club, it is without substance to vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the SDP's Club of Representatives. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities proposes to the Croatian Assembly to draw two conclusions. The first conclusion is: "The opinions, remarks, proposals tabled in the debate on the report, as well as comments, proposals and recommendations of the Ombudsman given in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent state authorities and bodies with public authority more effective." Does the Government's representative want to show himself about the proposal for a conclusion? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Matice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54454	Mr. President. The government accepts the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities. There's three... We accept this contained in the second point of the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54455	So, second conclusion. I'm putting that conclusion to the vote. Whoever's in favour, get involved and vote. But we can raise our hands I've read the one I've read, and it's being voted on. [[Intruder: No, but which one is the second, you only read the first.]] [[And that's the other one.]] So she accepted the government, and now we can raise our hands. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. 111 for. Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities proposes to the Croatian Assembly to draw another conclusion that reads. "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare and deliver by the end of 2010 to the Croatian Assembly a new Law on the Ombudsman, in accordance with the proposals made in the report and in the debate on the report by the Ombudsman, and in accordance with the changes made in the legal position and powers of the Advocate General, both in the domestic legislation and in the new role and place of the Ombudsman in the international system of human rights institutions." Does the Government's representative, Mr. Maticic, want to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54456	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government does not accept this proposal as a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54457	Thank you. Please, let's get involved and vote on a conclusion that the government does not accept. Let's get involved and vote. The government doesn't accept. We need a little more detail. We vote on the conclusion, we vote on the proposal for a conclusion. So please be nice. So we vote on the proposal for this conclusion. Who's for, who's against, who's abstention. The government has come forward. The result? This conclusion was not accepted because it voted 68, with 41 and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54458	We move to the next item - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for the children for 2009 Carrier: Advocate for the Children The Ombudsman is the Ombudsman for the children who provided this Report on the basis of Article 18. The Law on Child's Attorney General. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Gender Equality and Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. The prosecutor for children, Ms. Mila Jelavic, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54459	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. You will be presented with a report on the work of the Office of Advocates or Advocates for Children and the State of the Rights of the Child in the Republic of Croatia for 2009. The Attorney General's Office for Children is working on a regional principle, which means that he works alongside the offices in Zagreb in Split, Osijek and Rijeka, which covers the counties of certain regions. I'd say a word, two intro immediately on the conditions in which the office works. Since the opening of the office in Osijek, we have worked in an area that has temporarily granted us the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Development. However, in the last year of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have received space for the work of the regional office in Osijek, we have arranged it and since the beginning of February of this year we have been working in this area. In 2009, we also received a space in Zagreb that meets our needs and is under way in order to work under the right conditions, which will solve the problem of space in Zagreb as well. On behalf of the arrangement of this space, we received from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and a slightly larger budget for 2010. And now for the office report. And I need to introduce a few statistics without intending to bother you with numbers because they are detailed and shown in the report. The office opened 2217 new cases during 2009. 1050 of them are individual reports of child rights violations involving 1930 children. 1167 are general initiatives of the office, and 747 individual cases have been transferred from the previous periods. The increase in total in 2009 compared to the year before is about 10% I would also like to say that this report used methodology as well as previous years and which is also here in the Croatian Parliament, but since the international evaluation of the work of the office was assessed positively and which was an incentive for us to work in the past period. If we look at the structure of child rights violations, I will note that it is repeated almost a year after year, that the reports that we receive to the greatest extent tell us that the violation of the right to life with parents and parental care is something that is most often hurt, then violence against children and children, followed by violation of the education rights of children, violations of economic rights, violations of judicial and protective, violations of health, social and other rights of children, as is the report. I note that on average, we have 40 addresses in the office for personal and phone counseling, which means with these items that I have previously cited. Many individual cases have been an incentive for a number of recommendations we have made over the past year, and I'm going to mention only some here and that by groups. Unfortunately, children get hurt, children get hurt, we're witnessing these days. Then we sent recommendations in relation to health, in relation to the judiciary, in relation to violence, in relation to the protection of children with behavioural disorders, in relation to education and education, in the media and other recommendations that may not be classified in these, but certainly belong to a matter that we wanted to include as many children as possible and to protect their rights in general. During 2009, we participated in the creation and adoption of a total of 28 regulations, and I will note the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the laws and sublaws. Both yesterday and today, it was debated here in Parliament, i.e. certain decisions have been made regarding the Constitution, and we regret why these changes, if we are well informed, are not covered by Article 63, because we have proposed a better position for children, redefine the role in accordance with international documents, as has already been done before. We didn't want children to be just objects of protection, but actually active participants in social events in general. During 2009, we visited numerous institutions and places where children stay longer or shorter, so we were in 5 prison institutions, 18 institutions of social care, 3 institutions for the accommodation of victims of domestic violence, 4 hospitals, 11 educational institutions, kindergartens and schools, 4 dormitories, shelter for asylum seekers, one therapeutic community. Many children in larger or smaller groups visited us in our offices at all locations where we work both in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka. I would mention that office employees participated in a number of international activities in the field of protection and promotion of children's rights, so co-operation was achieved with the United Nations Children's Committee on the Rights of the United Nations, the Council of Europe, and we are very active in the European Network of Advocates for Children and the Network of Advocates for the Children of Southeast Europe, which we have recently sat down with. We have just successfully organized an international conference on high conflict divorces, child manipulation, held in Dubrovnik last year. We're also active members of... A network of prisoner children protection organisations, which operates under the auspices of the European Commission, and the World Coalition of countries and child abuse prevention organisations operating within the United Nations. [[You don't understand.]] We also achieved our legal obligation to promote children's rights through the organisation of two international conferences in the past year, 5 expert discussions, the presentation of two chambers in our own storybook, the exhibition of student papers on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, 70 exhibitions and workshops, 30 texts in professional publications and newspapers, and through hundreds of participations in media and media statements. The status of children's rights during 2009 is assessed by monitoring the work of the public authority, by ministries, local and regional self-government, and by all institutions that care for children, including the work of each individual in these institutions and bodies. The data we have reported in the report were requested in due time as soon as it ended in 2009 until the conclusion of the report in March 2010. Some bodies have not responded to us, and all the data that have been provided or available on their website have been used in this report. The basis for the work was therefore research, data and analysis of this office, as well as a questionnaire on free time and centres for children and young people, then children's playgrounds sent to 556 addresses in the Republic of Croatia. We are concerned about the fact that we have received answers from only 17% of the subjects or 93 answers and we are obliged to inform you of that. A questionnaire to all social care centres on family interventions, in cases of high conflict divorces, and here we have information about a high percentage of high conflict divorces, i.e. manipulation of children in almost 40% of situations where parents cannot or are unable to divorce or diverge. A questionnaire on the length of stay of children in children's homes, a questionnaire sent to several professional addresses, such as school, agency, ministry, teacher's college, county office, is also a survey. The basis for our work was an examination of the student's opinion. I will mention that it is 800 Zagreb high school students, health education, student practice, and the age limit for voluntary sexual relations, etc. Furthermore, we also received data from relevant international research, such as ESPAD and UNICEF, and expert public research on specific topics discussed in this report. In its analysis, the role, pardon, in its role in monitoring the compliance of laws and regulations with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and of Other International Documents, and the enforcement of obligations arising from these regulations and documents as monitoring of infringements of the individual rights of children with the aim of proposing measures for the comprehensive protection and affirmation of children and their rights in the past year, we have met with almost all areas of child life. All these areas required a smaller or higher engagement of the Ombudsman’s Office for Children, warning of the unfulfilled rights of children and the unfulfilled tasks of adults. In 2009, the threat of children in the area of protection against violence and neglect and family relations and parental care dominated, and many of our activities were aimed at eliminating the harmful consequences of violence or neglect and unquality relations in the family, most often caused by conflict divorces. There is still no systematic professional support for parents in raising children and caring for their needs through appropriate education and counselling centres, but also timely reactions when the family does not work. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the role and tasks of family centres and to establish their system of co-operation with social care centres, in particular in addressing conflict-related family relations issues and other complex family situations. We continue to notice the weaknesses of the welfare system, especially the lack of engagement of individuals whose occasional mis and superficial evaluations and procedures sometimes fail. Disrespect of time limits in court decisions concerning children, delaying procedures that keep children too long in suspense in some environments is unfortunately still present. This further warns that it is necessary to implement judicial reform as soon as possible and to establish a whole area of the state of the family court that will better protect children's rights. Despite the legal ban as well as the implemented campaign, the physical punishment of children in the family and elsewhere remains justified and tolerated and there is no adequate response from the competent authorities. The protection of children against all forms of violence has seen a lack of effective prevention programmes, insufficient coordination of all systems, lack of continuous work and treatment both victims of violence and perpetrators. It is therefore necessary to pay more attention to the special form of preventive work with children and their parents and school. The reactions of society to various manifestations of behavioural disorders in children and young people are too often worrying. Children are easily attributed to complete and exclusive responsibility for their behavior by forgetting that it is the most common reflection of family and society as a whole that often does not offer them examples of positive behavior. In the health care system, we see a lack of specialised departments for children who need psychiatric help, i.e. an insufficient number of health workers who are concerned with the protection of mental health of children. The state must urgently focus on prevention activities to protect the mental health of children on the professional training of adults and empowerment of children in this area. Since children spend most of their time except in families in educational institutions, education and education workers are so much greater challenges and responsibilities, but also potential influences in the protection and promotion of children's rights. Many adults in this system are not sufficiently sensitive to the problem of violence or to their obligations and ability to act effectively. That's why they rarely run away from responsibility and reduce problems. Communication between schools, social care centres and parents is mainly about written reports without real cooperation and agreement, resulting in uncoordinated and ineffective measures that cost children the most. Many children with developmental difficulties have been made difficult to integrate into regular educational institutions due to too many children in the kindergarten or classroom due to unregulated status of assistants in the follow-up and architectural, staff and other obstacles. It is unacceptable that because of the inability to school in their midst, these children interrupt schooling or are separated from the family and sent to special institutions. Children's rights to participate in decisions concerning them in families, schools, other institutions and bodies and the wider social community are not sufficiently achieved. The right of the child to freedom of expression and participation in decision-making, in particular in judicial and administrative proceedings and in policies and programmes relating to children, is not sufficiently visible. Worried about ensuring content for the free time of children and young people, which is why they often stay on the street or bar where they reach for alcohol prematurely, which ultimately strengthens the appearance of violent and other unacceptable behaviors and is linked to putting themselves and others at risk. It is important to offer children content that will distance them from the source of addiction, provide them with conditions for quality free time, offer spaces and centres for young people and continuously achieve and evaluate preventive programmes. The presentation of children in the media has a strong impact on the attitudes and attitudes of children in society, which affects adult behaviour towards children, but indirectly also on the self-awareness and behaviour of children. We are therefore concerned that a picture of a child as a victim or perpetrator of violence dominates the media. Too often endangering children's rights to privacy, exposure to harmful media influences and a lack of positive media content designed for children require that in Croatia a full media policy is defined against children, which will include both protection mechanisms and incentives for the development of media rights of children. The poverty of the population affects the quality of life of children and threatens their numerous rights. Poverty increases the number of risks for children, primarily from neglect and abuse, and makes access to different services important for children's development more difficult. Children who suffer do not use statistics, and adults should not fool us into talking about children as objects without understanding situations where real and individual children really find and suffer. In conclusion, I would like to point out this, although we have seen a number of positive developments in the achievement of children's rights they should be less of a reason for our satisfaction, but more of a reminder of a number of areas where we must continue to try to bring national legislation and scratches into line with the principles and provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Children cannot wait for a better time to exercise their rights to healthy and complete development. In particular, they cannot wait for vulnerable groups such as children without adequate parental care, children with behavioral disorders, victims of violence, members of national minorities, children with developmental difficulties, sick and poor children. Respect for the rights of children is neither a matter nor a good will, but actually an obligation for all of us. No one can choose which children's rights they will respect and which they will not and have no justification for not taking measures to protect them. I point out that even in the most difficult times, children need responsible adults who will make decisions in their interest. Let us not fail their expectations, they are our unsustainable tasks. I therefore hope that this report will also be an incentive for everyone to act. Finally, I would remind once again of the legally defined role of the Ombudsman for children who is obliged to protect, monitor and promote the rights and interests of children under the Constitution, on the basis of international contracts and laws and whose existence as an independent institution of human rights is the outcome in the recommendations of the United Nations Child Rights Committee. It's our job to monitor the state of child rights, and we have to do this job and we can't choose whether to do something about it or not. As long as there's no gap, we can't actually be satisfied or shut up. Thank you very much, for your discussion or discussion, I'm prepared to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54460	Thank you very much, Attorney General. Do the Committee’s rapporteurs want to take the floor, or rapporteurs? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary Stjepan Adanic. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54461	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the United States, Attorney General. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has carefully examined the Ombudsman's report for children and has given its opinion and points to the following circumstances. In point 212 of the right to know its own origin on the birth certificate and on the personal name, it is stated that the Family Law does not even know the possibility to change the child’s personal name after the establishment of paternity, and that the child’s last name should be changed to a special administrative procedure which additionally burdens parents. Such a claim made in the report is incorrect, since the Family Law does not prescribe a change in the child’s personal name, but it is detailed in the Personal Name Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The personal name law is prescribed for a child who has until the age of 18 who has been granted paternity, parents can establish a new personal name by agreement. In this regard, the parent makes a statement on the record and such a statement by the parents on the contractual determination of such a personal name to the child is the basis for enrolment in the parent book and no specific administrative procedure is conducted. Furthermore, in point 216 of the right to protection against violence, the wrongly interpreted official data of the Ministry of the Interior which was delivered to the Ombudsmans for children have been interpreted. According to the report, a total of a thousand and 400 crimes of domestic violence were committed during 2009, which is not true because the total number of crimes committed in the Republic of Croatia rather than the number of crimes committed only to the harm of children. However, the report correctly states that a total of 99 children were damaged in the Republic of Croatia in connection with the mentioned offence. In point 21613, children found at night were presented incomplete data on the number of found and minors contrary to the provisions of Article 25. Family law. Namely, the table showing the number of children found in the forbidden and harmful night outing of the city of Zagreb was presented in the first 11 months of last year, not as reported in the 2009 report in question. In relation to point 2162, violence in education services should be noted that after the adoption of the Protocol on the treatment of violence between children and young people 2004. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports referred to all educational institutions a guide on mandatory treatment in accordance with that protocol, which was also notified to the parents of the students. It should be noted that there are a large number of children who are not enrolled in kindergartens in Istria, Ličko-senjska and Primorje-Gorski County, but in Zagreb and Zagreb County, where there are not enough accommodation facilities. In addition, about the allegations that high school students are not sufficiently familiar with the conduct of national graduations, the Government of the Republic of Croatia stresses that when the introduction of the State Graduation Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has provided every student with the right to be informed about all issues related to the conduct of the State Graduation. In order to bring her closer to the students, the Ministry is the basic information about the state graduation and its implementation of the importance for the education system in the form of publications "In the Meeting of State Graduation" and "State Graduation", and organized a series of presentations in secondary schools and in the ministry and published on their official web pages. As regards the issue of education of members of the Roma national minority, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is making significant efforts to improve the education of members of the Roma national minority, as seen in the report in the implementation of the Decade Action Plan, to include Roma from 2005 to 2015, in particular when it comes to increasing the scope of compulsory primary education, co-financing of pre-school and parental participation programmes in the price of pre-school education, and extended residence. In point 2.7.2. The protection of the rights of children of criminal and criminal offences committed in the report on the basis of complaints from parents shall be given an opinion on the need for a better quality education of special staff to treat children. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the Ministry of the Interior continuously educates, specializes and invests in the training of its workers who apply police powers to children, means it also specializes, educates and in some way commits them to it. As regards the above mentioned Government of the Republic of Croatia, it warns that in certain parts of the report which comment and mention concrete events, the Ombudsman provides an opinion solely on the basis of the information he receives, for example, from parents of children, and on the basis of all later knowledge of the event, among which there are often police reports delivered to the children's defenders on her request. Furthermore, in several places the report says that significant positive steps in the practice and field of protection of children with developmental difficulties have not been achieved, and a description of the situation is assessed on the basis of the number of reports of infringements of the rights of children with development difficulties addressed by the Ombudsman’s Office for Children. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is of the opinion that such conclusions can only be drawn on the basis of the research carried out and the Government considers it necessary to point out that the competent national authorities are continuously implementing a series of measures set out in the National Strategy for Equalisation of opportunities for persons with disabilities from 2007 to 2015 and that the number of applications submitted by the Office of the Ombudsman for Children does not reflect and cannot reflect a real state of foundation which could lead to such a comprehensive conclusion. In point 3.5. The rights of children whose parents are in prison as a child defender has reported good co-operation with the prison system administration and respect for the initiatives and recommendations addressed for the purpose of protecting the interests of children and parents in prison have found that there has been a direct shift in sensitivity of taking measures, primarily from the employees of the prison system and the engagement of managers. In this connection, the Ombudsman's proposal for children has been respected and records have been established on the number of children whose parents are in prison and visits to children's parents in prison, which will be shown in the 2009 report on the state and operation of prison penitentiary offices. In the wheel, here we are at the end of the line, not to be longer, in point 7.3. The asylum seekers' shelter, which discusses the setting up of childcare staff, states that the guardian is most often appointed from social workers from the welfare centre. However, accurate information is that so far the social care centre has always appointed a childcare centre without escort from the ranks of the social care centre's professional services. In the section in which it is said that last year no child has welcomed a solution to obtaining and granting asylum or has exercised the right to protection in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to point out that during 2009, 12 unaccompanied children requested asylum. During the course of the asylum application procedure, all asylum seekers shall be protected in accordance with the provisions of the Asylum Act to the power of the solution. One child without escorting the right to asylum in the Republic of Croatia has been approved by the Asylum Committee by its decision of 10 December 2009, while the second child who requested asylum also in 2009 approved by the Ministry of the Interior by the decision of 26 February this year, i.e. in 2010. For two unaccompanied children who requested asylum in 2009, the Ministry of the Interior approved subsidiary protection with a solution since 3 March 2010. And as I said at the outset, I've cut it down to a maximum, and it's obvious that the government has carefully studied this report and given it here as you can see on page 12 of its opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54462	Thank you, Secretary of State. And now we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54463	Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Madam Attorney-General with his associates. This is by now I don't know which times here one situation in which government representatives instead of accepting certain facts and saying what they can do to make children's problems smaller and for children to live in a better and better environment they actually resist to say that this is not the case. I have to admit that I don't know why these reports, neither the attorney general nor the child's attorney, are being taken as one valuable job where all the problems of a particular public being followed, but also certain solutions to these problems are summed up in one place. When a representative of the government comes in here and says it's not the Family Law but it's the Name Act, the data on the number of children found outside in the late hours without parents are misrepresented because these data may be less than two, three children. It's as if this number isn't enough now that we already have and it doesn't ring the alarm because this is what the police say, in fact, with all their tolerance, the minimum minimum that's out there. It's not real numbers, numbers are much bigger and lots of niggers. When you come here and say it's not the right number of children that are enrolled, or not enrolled in kindergartens, so people my serious government can't do that and can't talk about children's rights like this. This only shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not care so much that it solves children's problems but rather cares more about what they write in the report. And that is why it is the decision on all committees not to accept this report in principle because when you take it into consideration you did not accept it. I don't really see what it says in this report that should be rejected. What's sad is that for years, in fact, the Ombudsman has always warned of the same problems that once again testifys that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obviously putting this aside and little is actually being taken in line with these remarks that the Ombudsman by which I don't know which times she mentioned here. And over the past three years, the lawyer wrote that we have too many conflicting divorces, that unfortunately we have a problem that parents are irresponsible, that they solve their problems through the interests of children and that we actually have more and more children who are highly traumatized by the behavior of their parents. I'm going to suggest something here, and you attorneys try as much as you can to advocate this solution, which is to give authority to the welfare center so that it can propose a change of custody, so that a parent who is irresponsible, who treats his child irresponsiblely and does not allow another parent to see him and have communication with him, should go on taking custody and give custody to another parent. It's the only way. It works in some countries. It works very well, and it's a well-established order. There's no other way. If you can't get your parents to reason otherwise that they don't traumatize their children with your unresolved problems, then take a carrot and a beating like that. So, the mother got custody not that often it's like that, not to let the father see the child, let's take her custody, so maybe it'll be enough for her not to hurt her child and let the father see that child, and not to let the children grow up to 18, 20 years old and the parent, so most often it's the father who lives maybe two blocks away can't go on with his child because the mother simply doesn't. I'm sorry that something like this didn't even fall into the Law of Violence, so as a kind of violence against a child, because it really is violence against a child. In a few years, it's already been said that we don't have enough mental health experts, that we can't provide adequate help to a child when they need it if a child waits for up to 6 months for certain treatments, it's really a question of what that treatment means after six months. Here are the figures, so some of them about the number of children found in small hours, even more so in the early mornings on the streets of our cities without parental escorts. So, both 11 and 12 and 15 years old. So, parents break the Family Law, because by the age of sixteen they have to be escorted by their parents after 11 o'clock. There are no sanctions, so it's for the parents. The largest number of parents then also protect their children when the police call them, because as one woman once said, she told me that in Croatia, parents are much easier to accept that their children are sick than their children are troublesome. And that seems to be one of the big problems. Those parents when they are said to have problems with their children often turn or against teachers who have said that or against the police who have arrested children there, and in fact children should not have been outside in those hours. So, whatever the number is, it's either right here or the wrong percentage, and the number of children is extremely large. It's getting bigger, and until we get our parents to have a responsibility for their own children, and they're setting limits to them, we're just going to have bigger, so bigger numbers, so the kids that are out there. I'm sorry that I don't really know when a long-standing amendment to the Penal Code is coming, and I don't know if you've been able to put a criminal offence into the Penal Code, so let's just say that we're going to do it online. I must admit that one education should be introduced to schools both for parents and for children on all the bad sides of Facebook. Unfortunately, I didn't find him any Facebook. I only found the bad side of Facebook to organize violence and fighting against children, to manipulate people's names via Facebook. This should be characterized as a criminal offence, because unfortunately on your behalf through Facebook someone can write that you killed a man while you wash yourself simply is already late. Therefore, the Internet, Facebook, all those communications in which, unfortunately, children are very early and very easy to enter, that I am not saying that parents are involved in supporting children in lies. Namely, you can't apply to a facebook 16 years ago. Unfortunately, all parents support children to write false data on Facebook so that they can open up this unfortunate Internet communication. Therefore, it is something that parents should say that they cannot participate in educating their children to lie and to conceal themselves in the very beginning, therefore their identity. Unfortunately, we don't have a pedophile register, we don't have a foster home register, we don't have what we're based on, we don't have one database where we can see what's happening to us with all those mechanisms that affect our children's development. It would be very important for us to get a register of those who are perpetrators of sexual delicacies to the harm of children because they often return to work in kindergartens, schools, or any other activity with children. Of course, they come back a lot easier because they come from another town or maybe even from a neighboring country and without such registers, you can hardly do it because they don't write to anyone at the head, so whether they're convicted of some sexual delinquent over a child or not. So this is extremely important to us, and I really don't see why it would be a threat to any human rights. Because if you have to go to the MUP and bring in confirmation that you're not being prosecuted anywhere, I don't see any reason not to bring in one confirmation that you're not in the pedophile register. And it is high time, of course, that we put the children first, and only then human rights of those who were able and violated these human rights of children by their own behavior. I would also like to talk a little bit here about the latest experiment by the Minister of Health Mr Milinović, who in a very demagogue, but very dangerous way for children decided to join Zagreb hospitals. In Zagreb, in fact, there are three children's hospitals who specialize. One is the Psychiatric Hospital in Kukuljevic, the only children's specialized psychiatric institution in Croatia. The second is a children's hospital in Klaicovo where children are the only children in Croatia, so they can get complete medical treatment in a hospital that is intended for children only. And the third hospital on Srebrenica is also a highly specialized children's hospital for allergic diseases and asthma. I wish it were logical for all three children's hospitals to come together in one. That would be acceptable. We have fought for years for children not to be, and this report warns that children and even the public defender that children are not allowed to be in prison, so adults, that underage children are not good enough to join them even in psychiatric institutions, that we are looking for small groups, that we are looking for to work in small groups with children because they have different problems and can't get them all in the same basket because then treatment with them is not good. Unfortunately, this is about three hospitals connecting each with adult hospitals. So the children's psychiatric hospital connects with Sparrow and Jankomir. The silver light connects with some other hospitals. Kukuljevic connects, or Klaic connects I don't even know with Vinogradsk. So it's just something that's harmful to children. I'll just tell you in Klaic, there is actually one single section in Croatia for children's gynecology educated from nurses to doctors. So there's one single center dealing with adolescents, young girls, young people. I have some information here about e.g. in 2008 on pregnancy in adolescents, so I'm going to tell you that in 2008 there were up to 14 years of 11 pregnancies, between 15 and 19 years of age, 777 pregnancy. This is due to the need for young people to engage in sexual relations. Unfortunately, the Croatian government did not have enough consciousness to introduce health education schools in which to educate young people and children in adolescence about how to responsibly enter sexual relations, how to protect themselves, how to avoid unwanted pregnancy. So here's a number of children who, in principle, stay pregnant, have children who have children, have different fates, from those whose parents raise children to those who give their children up for adoption. Therefore, a single center that we now have for the education of adolescents and young people will actually be abolished because of the merger of a children's hospital with hospitals actually for adults. And it's bad, it's a direct blow to children and children's rights and it's definitely something that should be stopped in the name of children and in the name of their interest. Unfortunately, we don't have enough mental health experts, we have two children's psychiatrists in Slavonia, we have two children's psychiatrists on the whole of Dalmatia, in Dalmatia it's about 3,000 children who ask for help from child psychiatrists over the year. You can imagine, you don't have to be doctors, you don't have to be special experts, you divide it into some working days, and you'll see how much such a child psychiatrist can really be devoted to so many children when they need it. In all of Slavonia, therefore, you have a section of only 12 beds that can treat children with certain behavioral disorders and who need help from professions and doctors. Since it's my time in the end I'll just say one more thing. So this report on 300 and some pages written by the Ombudsman shows that children in Croatia have a lot of problems, because of what I have now said about joining one of the Styria's completely unimaginative mergers of Zagreb hospitals is therefore a new damage to children. It would be much better if everyone here in the Croatian Parliament but especially in the Croatian government who proposes and passed certain laws, read this report carefully and try to do as much as possible to avoid reading these same problems as we have read on the next report. And in the end, I would like to say, since you're in the care of the defendants of the Croatian Parliament, I have to say on behalf of the SDP Club that I expect you to not be killed and when it comes to children's rights, but that you are still really fighting for children because you are the most invited to talk about children's rights, children's problems, if you won't do it, then it's really a question of who will. Children cannot protect themselves, therefore, and we have a child's attorney's office, and really don't get your head killed in front of anything, not even in front of this decision that this report is actually not accepted in the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54464	Thank you, colleague. We now have several applications for correction of the quote. First of all, my colleague, Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54465	Thank you, Mr. President. So I will correct the incorrect allegations that my colleague said the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not care about the welfare of children. Well, before I did, just before this report by the Ombudsman for the children, we had a report by the Attorney General, and I tried a little bit in 2002, in that report then, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor said the following and asked to speed up the process of proposing the Law on Child Rights of the Ombudsman. So before that, then, Mrs Kosor's representative proposed that the Ombudsman's office be established, as it was then called children's rights. And another... That's not true. [[You don't understand.]] Today, the Prime Minister is also clear as the Minister of the Ministry of the Family, and she was equally in favour. And just one more fact to say, which is that by comparing the state budget for 2009 and 2010, there is a rise in planned total funds for children and young people in the positions of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Care. So it's just not true. My colleagues we still know that, but I can't see it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54466	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Davor Huška's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll try to make two things right that my colleague said. And this is the first Government of the Republic of Croatia not to care about the welfare of children and the government does not take seriously the facts of this report. On the contrary. With respect every year, the facts of the children's counsel's report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia finds more and more ways to take care of children's rights year after year, and this is clear from the reasons we heard from the secretary of state. The growing quality and better-organised care of children through a social care centre financed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the state budget. There is growing quality of accommodation and care for children in dormitories who again through decentralised funds through counties are financed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the state budget. There is an increasing number of children attending one-way work in primary schools, in increasingly high quality conditions, up to improved conditions in secondary schools. With regard to kindergartens and preschool education, this is largely omitted and legal obligations are units of local self-government, but in the past 6 years the Government of the Republic of Croatia has funded throughout the Republic of Croatia the construction of dozens of new kindergartens, and it should be pointed out that just in the richest unit of the local self-government of the City of Zagreb, the biggest problem is children's kindergartens because the City of Zagreb seems to have some other priorities that colleagues from the SDP know more about because it has been successfully run by the City of Zagreb for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54468	Thank you. Dear colleague Suzana Bilic Vardic also applied for a correction of the allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54469	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to correct a few allegations of a distinguished colleague named Opacic. First of all, now she's going to comment on me, that I'm the same as the government. It's not a 300 page report, it's 275 pages. My colleagues and colleagues have already corrected this so the government doesn't care about the state of children's rights. To supplement what my colleagues have said, it also shows a relationship to the Ombudsman’s Office for Children and Her Work. It also shows the separation from the state budget for the work of the Ombudsman's Office for Children. In one crisis, a recession year 2009 saw an increase compared to 2008, and we see 99.49% of these funds being realised. The second thing, another allegation, is that this report summarises all problems and suggestions for a solution. In part, I agree, but that they're all complex and you've said very harshly and at the same time, you've presented the reasons why the government allegedly doesn't accept this report from you. The government has made its point, the HDZ Representatives' Club will take this report into account, but that does not mean that it rejects because the Croatian government's opinion shows the relationship between this government and these governments towards children's rights, children's rights and the Office of the Advocates for Children's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54470	Thank you. And colleague Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54471	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do to correct the two incorrect allegations of Mrs. Opacic. The first time she says the lawyer always warns about the same problems. That's incorrect, Mrs. Opačić, because it's the attorney general who says that, and also in his report, he admits, that there has been a whole series of positive developments in the achievement of children's rights. And as you said yourself, actually, about this issue, it is the child's attorney who is first responsible and logical to advocate better protection of children's rights. The second allegation has also been corrected, that the government does not care about the welfare of children. Well, Mrs. Opačić, I must definitely say exactly thanks to the then vice president and the minister, and the current Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, has also created the Office for the Protection of Children's Rights, i.e. the Ombudsman for Children, as well as the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54472	Thank you very much. We're moving on, we're moving on with the club debate. You've got plates, pick up and answer, and don't come out of each other's benches. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with your associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, if there's anything we need to discuss, we can do it later on for coffee, but since they've overlooked me at the chair, then I'll just fix it. I'm sorry my colleague Opacic left. So it's already kind of fixed, so it's a reduction in budgets, which is not true. I also wish to correct the immediately incorrect assumption that the report on all committees was rejected, which is not true. And I'm sorry that it was generalized when it came to facebook, colleague Opacic said unfortunately all parents support children to cover up their identity. Well, here's how we don't get all the parents to do it anyway. But back to the report now, according to her legal obligation, the Ombudsman for children submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament on her work in 2009. The report stressed that last year, the largest number of individual reports of child rights violations related to protection against violence and neglect and the rights of joint parental care. During 2009, as we also heard from the Ombudsman just once more about numbers, 2217 new cases were opened, of which 1050 were related to reports of individual infringements of children's rights, and 1167 general initiatives by the attorney general who were often encouraged by just individual applications. In its work, the office continues to favour individual infringements of children's rights as well as interventions undertaken in accordance with the powers but its activities are increasingly focused on general initiatives it has been working on for a long time. In this way, the Advocate's Office will follow the standards of child care and, including in its work, new co-workers in certain institutions and associations, seek to act proactively. He's focusing on the problem and sensitizing what's equally important. Of course, all of this with the desire to move ahead and prevent harmful actions that endanger children and help to strengthen the comprehensive protection of children. In particular, emphasis should be placed on legislative initiatives in which the Ombudsman is involved in the process of drawing up draft rules in order to improve the protection of children's rights and interests in certain areas. The 2009 report is already followed by that stalking methodology of the previous years report, bringing a review of the situation in the field of protection of personal rights, children's rights as members of the social community, educational, health, social, economic, cultural, judicial and other rights. In addition, the section on proposals is followed by the Ombudsman to take measures for the full protection of children's rights, which presents the problems identified in different areas. From protecting the rights of children without parental care, children with developmental disabilities, children with behavioural disorders, children living on islands, children of members of national minorities to protection of mental health of children, prevention of suicide, protection of children who are engaged in sports and many others. But I want to go back a little bit with the details, and I can't help but think that a series of surface and flat, but also too many general examples have been presented in the report, so I'm going to name just a few of them. The legality of the work of the Centre for Social Care as well as certain conditions in the institution for the accommodation of children with behavioural disorders, misrepresentation of data from the Ministry of the Interior on criminal offences committed at the expense of children. First they say there were 1400 of them, there weren't 1400 of them, but 99 of them. The report sets out certain data on pre-school education and education which have changed in the meantime and has not been updated. Furthermore, several places also say that significant positive steps have not been achieved in the area of protection of children with developmental difficulties, and the description of the situation is assessed on the basis of the number of reports of child rights violations with developmental difficulties addressed by the Office of Advocates for Children. However, these conclusions can only be drawn on the basis of research, and the competent national authorities have continuously implemented a series of measures set out in the national strategy for equating opportunities for disabled persons in force since 2007, as you know, until 2015. And the number of applications filed by the Advocate's Office for Children does not really reflect a situation based on which a comprehensive conclusion could be made. The lawyer says that it is necessary to strengthen the role and assignment of family centres, so it is necessary to say that family centres have proved to be a very successful service in terms of counseling and prevention and I am sorry that 2 are not yet open. Unfortunately, one of them is in the County of Međimurje, but it will be, too, I believe, I'm sure. So they proved to be a very successful service, a prevention to family, future parents, young people, and older ones. I also believe that it is necessary to improve the work of the Centre for Social Care and it is necessary to stress that the Resorient Ministry of Health and Social Care has joined the new organisation of the same in principle offices all in one place, precisely with the aim of improving the quality of professional and advisory work and separating it from monetary and other assistance. I have to set as a positive example here the Center for Social Care in Čakovec, which works by a whole new standard, and I think it's an example. And I'm inviting the D.A. to come and see what it looks like, and I think she'll be pleased. So, the report is exhausting. It doesn't matter how many pages it's on, it's huge. I repeat once again, it is not good to draw conclusions in a casual way to generalize things, because it is as we all like to say, I think a colleague will say in her debate, about this sensitive topic, about children, about their rights, about those we adults have role models and we have great responsibility. Young people can show respect for adults only if they have felt for themselves, or learned what it means. Kids aren't little grown-ups yet. Children have their own way of expressing themselves, children have a different articulation, owning their own pace, and that's how it should be. In the end, I just want to quote Dostoyevsky who said "All the ideals of the world are not worth the tears of one child," so let's not forget much about ideals, let's not forget their tears because we don't want to look at them, we want to act proactively and I believe that we will all agree. The Croatian Democratic Community club will also support the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54474	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction, dear colleague Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54475	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Glavak said that last year, regardless of what was a crisis year, recession, etc. that there are no reduced funds on children's programmes. Please make it clear that the SDP's interpretation of violence among children, the government itself says that, among other things, only at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are reduced funds for more than 25 million kunas, and that is precisely on programmes that also referred to the prevention of violent behavior, on leisure, on the organization, on computers. Well, you've abolished the full resources that went for the equipment, for example. School library. And now you're saying the funds aren't cut. You have reduced them overall by more than 30 million, and that is precisely in terms of programmes that were related to prevention of different behaviours among children, but also to the part that concerns childcare with developmental difficulties. That's what you have in your budget rebalances. Here's the government's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54476	Thank you. The Croatian Peasant Party representative club, distinguished colleague Stanko Grcic. Here's a colleague of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54477	Dear Vice President, the esteemed attorney with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. This report tells us what the Ombudsman was doing for the children, how she was carrying out a trusted duty, but moreover, it tells us in an indirect way about how she treats children in Croatia, how children are treated by parents and society as a whole. In this regard, we do not want to generalise, but the fact that reports of abuse and violation of rights are many of which occur in a family that should be a safe haven for a child from growing violence that is increasingly characterized by our society. A lot more children suffer in loneliness away from the eyes of someone who should or should try to protect them, from children who alone cannot protect their rights, we are all responsible. How much do we really respect these little people's opinions, smart, bright, creative? Not too much to say, for not respecting the opinions and attitudes of others has become common in family, workplace, street or stadium. The report said that 2,000 217 new cases were opened during 2009, of which a thousand and 50 were related to reports of individual infringements of children's rights, and a thousand 167 were the general initiatives of the office itself. The individual infringements of children's rights received in 2009 included a thousand 930 children. In addition to a thousand and 50 new applications from earlier years, 747 were transferred, which means that in 2009, a thousand 797 individual cases were handled. Out of a thousand and 50 applications, the majority of 625 were related to infringements of children's personal rights, especially rights to protection against violence and neglect and the right to live with parents and with parental care. For these latter, a 15% increase was reported compared to the previous reporting period. It worries that children are exposed to parental manipulations after family breakdowns and divorces, which are often used for each other’s calculation. We believe that all existing mechanisms need to be used to contain such treatment, or to reduce it to the least possible measure. It is not children’s fault that parents have failed to maintain their marriage and should not suffer beyond the suffering they suffer from family breakdown. Are there mechanisms in our society that would be aimed at protecting our family? It is the destruction of the family that threatens the peaceful and happy growing of children. I do not think that, at all costs, it is necessary to remain in a community marked by violence, verbally or physically, but I believe that through support mechanisms, such as advisory and therapeutic, but with the first perception of the problem, not only could violence be prevented but also alienation of spouses who result in divorce and family destruction. Family centers play an important role in this regard. Children are unfortunately victims of violence, whether physical, or sexual. According to the interior ministry, police reported 3,000 549 crimes of violence against children during 2009. In a thousand 478 crimes, children were victims of abandonment and abuse. In as many as 431 parts, the victims were victims of acts against sexual freedom and disorder, and in 223 works of bodily injury. The children were also victims of 10 crimes against life and the body, and in 7 acts against the freedom and rights of man and citizen. Although these figures are a frighteningly real number of such misdemeanors, they are certainly far greater because they do not even report everything that has been done. Of the 209 applications received by the Ombudsman in 2009 concerning violence against children, the largest number 82 concerned domestic violence, 51 violence in educational and educational institutions, 7 violence in other institutions, while 69 applications refer to other forms of violence that occur outside the family and institutions, which include adult violence against children. That information, unfortunately, reveals a bitter truth. Family, where children should feel the safest and most protected place is violence against children, and psychological and emotional not only physical violence to which the child is exposed leaves far-reaching negative consequences. It is important to point out that children are further traumatised as witnesses and therefore rightly warns that there is a need to develop a system of support and assistance for children and minors and witnesses in order not to be further traumatised during the judicial procedure. The weak link is that it shows reports and social care centres that often react inadequately. The fundamental task of each country is to enable an individual and family to ensure conditions for normal and healthy life and adequate income. The financial and economic crisis affects all Croatian citizens, but most of all, according to the Ombudsman, it will affect the safety and protection of children. The impoverishment of the population directly affects the quality of life of children and endangers their rights, increasing the number of risks such as being neglected which, with inadequate nutrition, insufficient health protection has a negative impact on children's development. Poor children are also more exposed to the risk of abuse. They find it difficult to access education and many health and social, cultural services, not to talk about free activities that cost them and which their parents cannot afford because of lack of money. And clearly, all this leads to the social exclusion of poor children. It is amazing to note that the Ombudsman is involved in the existence or planning of a youth centre as a place where young people would have a place to socialise and implement software content in the leisure time that was sent to cities and municipalities in December 2008, of which 556 responded only 93 and 17%, respectively. Young people are not provided with content or space for constructive leisure, but are condemned to cafes, growing up before the time of alcohol or drugs, and when the problem arises, we all wonder why this happened and could it be prevented. It is commendable that during 2009, much has been done to improve the safety of children in road transport, playgrounds and protect their safety during the use of leisure time. Children are not adequately protected from the influence of advertising. The Ombudsman has tried unsuccessfully to ban and eliminate advertising of pornographic content in the printed media, i.e. daily newspapers available to children in most families, weekly contributions containing the weekly programme on the back pages have ads of content that can be freely called pornographic. It concerns the fact that although the National Plan for Children's Rights and Interests since 2006-2012 provides for measures to protect children from abuse and neglect, one of the measures is to introduce a new college "violence against and among children" to graduate and postgraduate colleges whose deadline of execution was not fully open until today. It depends clearly on the autonomy of the university itself. The collapse of values with a crisis is certainly not a desirable and good environment for growing up. How can we protect our children when we too often cannot protect ourselves? The child's abandonment of education, of honest work, solidarity, empathy with others, loss and society that did not allow the development of its full potential to grow into a mature, responsible person conscious environment that will contribute to the improvement of Croatia as a whole. Every child should be precious to us, because that is, regardless of the negative demographic trend. It is precious not only to my parents but I trust all of us. We believe that competent institutions and institutions will take appropriate measures and procedures to address the problems identified in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54478	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's distinguished colleague, Danica Hursa. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Attorney-General with the co-workers. My colleagues and colleagues. The 2009 Ombudsman's 2009 report uses the report methodology from previous years to review the situation in the field of protection of personal rights, children's rights as members of the social community, educational, health, social, economic, cultural, judicial and other rights. The following is also the chapter on the Advocate General's proposals for taking measures for the full protection of children's rights. The proposals are based on examples and an indication of the problems observed in different areas, from protection of children's rights without parental care, children with developmental difficulties, children with behavioural disorders, children living on islands, children of national minorities to protection of children's mental health, prevention of suicide, protection of children who are engaged in sports and many others. The report noted that in 2009, the largest number of individual reports of child rights violations related to protection against violence and neglect and the right to joint parental care. During 2009, 2217 new cases were opened at the Ombudsman’s Office for Children, including 1050 reports of individual infringements of children’s rights, and 1167 general initiatives of the Ombudsman who were often prompted by individual applications. In its work, the office favours individual infringements of children's rights, as well as interventions undertaken in accordance with the powers, but its activities are increasingly focused on general initiatives it has been working on for a long time. In this way, the attorney’s office shall follow the standards of child care and, including in its work, new co-workers in certain institutions and associations, seek to act proactively with the desire to overrun and prevent harmful actions that endanger children and help strengthen the overall protection of children. In particular, emphasis should be placed on legislative initiatives in which the Ombudsman is involved in the process of drawing up draft rules in order to improve the protection of the rights and interests of children in certain areas. The Ombudsman warns of insufficient efficiency and inconsistency of the system of protection and prevention against violence against children, the system of social care and family protection still cannot respond to the numerous requirements set before it. It further points out that the problems of violence in educational institutions continue not to monitor the taking of appropriate preventive safeguards. Schools often do not report violence centers, and sometimes they cover it up while centres when violence and reported do not always have an effective response. As far as children's health rights are concerned, a series of shortcomings are recorded. All the predecessors mentioned it, so I won't. Mrs Jelavic warned that there is still a slowness of the courts in resolving family-law relations and in making decisions concerning children's rights. She also objected to the media's attitude towards children's rights that often violate children's privacy rights, internet portals, forums and blogs often publish inappropriate content for children while the media lacks content that would have educational informational character for children. From the extensive opening part of the attorney general, I would like to underline a part that we at the HNS Club, HSU, consider very significant and important, which refers to this moment. The poverty of the population affects the quality of life of children and endangers many of their rights, and sometimes even the right to survive. Poverty increases the number of risks for children primarily from neglect and abuse, and makes access to health, social, educational and cultural services important for children's development more difficult. In the current situation, the State should also adopt an operational plan to protect the most vulnerable groups of children with envisaged measures at national and local level, with the establishment of a specific child budget of particular importance. We're underlining it at our club. And finally. The report gathers a number of positive developments in the achievement of children's rights. But there are still a whole series of areas that still need to be aligned with national legislation that must follow the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Representatives and representatives of the HNS and HSU Club will accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54480	Thank you very much. This is what we've exhausted all the applications for a club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first registered colleague, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone, so she's losing her right to argue. Then a distinguished colleague, Branko Crlenko. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54481	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. As has been regularly pointed out in all reports so far, this major problem in the work of the social care centre is, of course, related to an insufficient number of professional staff, insufficient education and professional support of the competent authority and, in a number of cases, leads to insufficient engagement, and superficial and incorrect evaluations. How this situation has been going on for many years without a chance for its resolution of the party to feel an extraordinary resistance when they are referred to the centre as a place where they should find answers to their problems and their questions and to a place where they should get help in solving their problems. The need to ensure a sufficient number of professional workers in social care centres is stressed. Better integration and cooperation of all institutions involved in child protection are extremely important. To achieve a higher level of child protection in divorce procedures and parental care decisions. It points to the need for more effective judicial procedures with further sensitisation and education of judges in the field of psychosocial aspects of divorce and the specificities of psychophysical development of children as well as their reactions in the extremely stressful situation of divorce of parents. In view of the seriousness and disseminating of the problem of non-payment of the legal obligation to abstain, the Office of the Advocate for Children is equally considered to be, by strengthening the criminal responsibility of those who do not comply with their legal obligation to children, a clear message on the conviction and intolerance of such behaviour towards the most sensitive members of society. During 2009, as well as previous years, the office also acted on reports concerning violence against children. Every form of violence against a child has its weight and leaves lasting consequences. But sexual violence is the most severe form of violence against a child. Although it is traditionally believed that sexual abusers of children are unknown individuals of numerous statistics show that a large number of sexual delicacies occur right in the family, in the home of the perpetrator or the victim himself, i.e. in about 80 to even 90% of cases, the victim knows the unsub. The abusers are individuals who are very close to children, with whom children are emotionally bound, in whom they trust and expect protection. Recognizing the trend of the increase, the Office of the Ombudsman for Children expressed the view that in the Republic of Croatia a single national register of perpetrators of sexual violence against children should be established, and that the Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse provides for the collection and storage of data on perpetrators of sex delicacies to the harm of children. Currently, there is no adequate accommodation in Croatia for children with behavioral disorders and associated psychological disorders. The psychiatric hospital for children and youth in Kukuljevic provides services in crisis situations, but it is the only one, so children from all over Croatia are directed to this institution both on diagnostics and on short-term treatment after which they have to be fired and the treatment is not over. Children sometimes stay in psychiatric wards of hospitals in Osijek and KBC Rijeka, but for longer-term accommodation there is no solution and response system. The need for better integration between systems, in particular the social care system, health care, education, and justice, arises from the above. The main problems must be resolved at the level of the ministries, and then solutions brought down to the levels of centres, homes, schools and hospitals. Regarding the protection of the right of the child to adopt, the office also declared that potential adoptors were addressing him, pointing to the difficulties encountered in the adoption process itself. The process of depriveing parental care in court lasts for many years, resulting in unfulfilled assumptions for adoption. It is particularly worrying that the social care system as one of the most important features of protecting children’s rights has a number of weaknesses that cause its ineffectiveness. Equally unacceptable is the slowness, inefficiencies, insensitivity of the judiciary, in the procedures in which children's rights are resolved which have been warned for many years. The hope remains that judicial reform will identify the problems of protecting children's rights, that their resolution will give them a proper priority and importance. Many institutions are passive, and in most cases they act as though they were exempt from responsibilities for the protection of children, by non-functioning of systems and by not taking measures by competent institutions, there is an impression that bodies established at different levels and with specific responsibilities and powers of protection of children's interests expect that someone else solves problems for them. The scope of the existence of a parallel system is opened which, by transferring the responsibility of the participants, promotes legal uncertainty. It is not good that many institutions, organisations, associations and experts on a particular problem remain silent, waiting for the prosecutor's response, and forgetting their own responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54482	Thank you very much, colleague. Furthermore, for an individual hearing, it has been reported... She's a colleague of Nadica Jelash. [[You don't understand.]] Here's your esteemed co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54483	Thank you very much, Vice President, esteemed attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In this debate... regarding the report, I will try to refer to several problems, i.e. highlight them, and they are all more or less linked to the adolescent population. [[You don't understand.]] The first problem I want to talk about in this regard is Internet and mobile addiction. The negativity of those classic forms of addiction of the young population, from alcohol through drugs, to dependence on gambling and betting so far, we've been a society to a certain extent and we've come up with a more efficient instrumentation to fight them, so I'm saying they're in their own sense, so these addictions have become classics. However, unlike these forms of addiction, we have not yet met the extent of harm to the Internet and the mobile, nor have we convinced them of this as a society fully aware. Unfortunately, we have to admit that our children have grown to know communication technologies and that as a society, we have not devised effective models and control and control of the use of these technologies. And these new technologies have brought a new form of child abuse, so-called Cyber bulling, which literally becomes one global contagion. Almost daily, we witness new shocking cases of violence between children via the Internet and mobile phones, children record different kinds of very rude abuses of their peers, and videos are further published on the Internet, call for violence, insults, disrespect, threats to peers, even groups to fight peers. Unfortunately, children in the Internet and in their mobile phone found a substitute for lack of parental attention, parental care, one word for the time that parents by nature have to devote things to children, because parents are committed to either assembling profits, or fighting for survival. How who, depending on where he found himself in this divided Croatian society, is on which side he is. And unfortunately, we also have to notice that this empty hall right now is talking about how important this topic is to the Assembly, and one huge number of us are parents. As I have already said before, the problem of harming children's rights on the Internet and mobile is relatively new to us, and therefore I will say a lot of inconsistencies and shortcomings in handling at all levels. We all made an appointment for not knowing the problem, so starting with us parents, through educational and medical institutions, to lawyers and judges. The lawyer herself says that the parents see fear and helplessness, lack of information on ways to protect children, lack of information about the handling of competent bodies, after the injuries they have suffered, there are penalties for children and bans on using their cell phones, abandonment of applications and private lawsuits, refusal to seek and provide psychological assistance to victims and perpetrators, lack of supervision and control, etc. It is therefore clear that it is necessary to educate and sensitise parents to protect children on the Internet, to monitor their use, to get to know parents with rights, obligations, all those entities dealing with child protection, as well as the way in which children's rights violations are handled when it comes to Internet use. On the other hand, as regards educational staff, there is also a marked lack of awareness and lack of awareness and lack of education about this problem. Their lack of information on how to read from the report is evident in non-recognition of violence, as well as in non-registration of protection measures, and difficulties also create that many schools do not have clear rules for the use of the Internet and mobile phones at school. School workers themselves acknowledge that in cases of Internet and mobile abuse they do not comply with the protocol on child violence, although cyber bulling contains all forms of both verbal and psychological and sexual violence and in such cases should be handled according to protocol. And why isn't it handled? Because there's not a word about it in the protocol. The protocol does not mention this type of violence at all. It is clear, therefore, that some documents need to be updated urgently, so we are talking primarily about the protocol, or we are either bringing in completely new ones that dictate new life situations. And finally, there is another link to be mentioned in this chain that should also be significantly strengthened, it is a judicial system. Both state lawyers and judges also need to educate on this issue so that they can competently do their part of the job. Another problem, which I also wanted to say about this debate, is the problem of abuse in adolescent relationships. This problem is common, and in many cases it is not recognized by the actors, and we know that the most frequent victims in such relationships are young girls, and it is not recognized by parents or educators. The third problem for the adolescent generation is the problem of minor pregnancy in Croatia and is not as widespread as in some other countries, but regardless of the number and the commitment mainly for a particular social group it is very complex for reasons because the case of a minor mother with a child is actually the case with two children who, in my opinion, require really one special social care. The most qualitative response in terms of prevention in all the above mentioned cases, therefore from those addictions through abuse in adolescent relationships to these minor pregnancies, would be the introduction of a special programme of health and sexual education in our schools. Unfortunately, the issue of health education and education in Croatia comes down to discussions on sexual education. What's in our space, we have to admit it, another controversial topic with a lot of political connotations. The constant confrontation of opinions ignores the interests of children and does not find acceptable solutions. It is obvious, then, that there is still no real will to introduce this important content for children of all ages, especially children of adolescent age. And finally, I would like to touch on another problem mentioned in this report, and it is also related to adolescents. It is a vaccine against HPV that was conducted last year mainly for girls in 7 primary schools. I want to point out that poor example of a health action, I'd almost call it a bad mass experiment. Starting with being advertised as free even though we all know it was funded by taxpayers' money, so all of our citizens. For example, the City of Zagreb has singled out 4 million kunas for this purpose. Through vaccines that have caused huge public recommendations due to adverse reactions all the way to the the thesis that the vaccine actually has no therapeutic effect, but that one of the consequences may be death. Regarding the recommendations caused by the vaccine against HPV in public, the Advocate General said in a report that she requested the expert opinion of the Head of the Department for the Protection of Youth Health and Prevention of Dependence of the Institute for Public Health. And the expert opinion on adverse reactions is that none of the side effects appear to be directly related to the vaccine. So it seems, and you don't know. So it is obvious that even today, the Croatian public does not know the reliable answers to the vaccination against HPV, and I think that experimenting with the health of our children is unacceptable. We had a similar story, unfortunately, with vaccination against swine flu where one large sum of money was also spent without a clear public health reason and without clear effect. As far as we know, no one has ever answered that question. And I'm just going to ask two very short questions at the end. Why hasn't a pedophile register been established yet, and his announcement was there at the end of 2007? And here's a question to the D.A.'s office about the announced termination of maternity care by the Minister of Health? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54484	We have two replicas. Here you go, comrade twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54485	Thank you very much. I'd like to say that in one part of my colleague's debate, I agree and thank God that today we are the ones who are and that the lawyer is here and that we can talk about it. And you said rightly, there isn't a lot of us in Parliament. What I particularly regret is that there are not those who sometimes use children and children's rights to make public television shows in the morning and show the rest as great protectors. And I'm glad the D.A.'s here today. And I'm going to ask her one question. It's cultural not to talk about the names of people she doesn't have, so I'm not going to name the lawyer's colleague who's just left, just slammed the door. But what made me feel like a parent, like a mother, and don't let God in a position to be 13 parents and more when he was, you set up representatives to interpret the Law on the Rights of the Child. I talked to Madam Attorney, the MP got up, and in one tone she started talking about it all, and then I have to tell you to surprise everyone and the public made one recital, she said 13 names and last names. 13 names and last names, touched in 13 wounds, 13 fates, in 13 pains so that most people out there asked God if the attorney for the protection of mental pain, for the protection of pain, for the protection of the rights of the child and the grief? I spoke to Mrs. Attorney General, orally, you remember. I asked you what this is about. It's about that, maybe in this part of what the D.A. said. That reaction is alarming. Well, it's so worrying of all of us, and of you and of us who couldn't get up at the time and say don't do it, fellow Opačić, it's not nice. Don't use grief compared to that. And I'm asking the D.A.'s office, just a minute, excuse me, please, how does she feel about such performances by all of us? And especially a colleague who came forward with the sole intention of some political point, but it's too sad and too sad. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54486	Replication response, colleague Jelish.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54487	After all, you mentioned the name of a lawyer who said that even though you said you wouldn't. Although we understood who you were alluding to, I am sure that the colleague did not raise those names for reasons to collect cheap political points but precisely for reasons to strongly highlight the problem of violence among children, that is, among young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54488	Thank you very much. And the replica was signed up by counterpart Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54489	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash, somewhere near the end of your debate, touched on the problems of vaccination against HPV. I'm the mother of a 14-year-old girl and I'm sure I'm not happy with the division of the profession that governs on that matter and I'm not happy when local self-government units over the last year were particularly expressed, and they're one for that. I'm not for experiments as a parent over my child, and I wouldn't take responsibility for other people's children. But what until the waist says what is most important for young people in the fight against this bad disease. However, you have compared it with the situation for swine flu vaccine, so I'm sorry you won't mention what the World Health Organization has established, which is that apparently pharmaceutical industries have done something that is neither noble nor human, but it's obvious that it's in the pandemic today, noting the pandemic of swine flu. And in the context of this, Croatia has clearly obtained a vaccine by protecting its citizens, and Minister Milinovic has called that no one has ever been responsible for it in Croatia. And the complete truth and the whole truth himself said that if this is confirmed that what the World Health Organization claims to be major pharmaceutical corporations means there is no responsibility. Instead of commending the Croatian Government and the Minister of Health for protecting the population of Croatia, and if this is the result of some manipulation, then there is really no reason to discuss the 2009 Ombudsman's report on the work for children, to combine the vaccine against HPV, with the purchase of a vaccine against swine flu.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54490	Let's move on with the debate. A colleague of Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54491	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ma'am, I'm with my co-workers, my co-workers and my colleagues. I would look back today on two areas, two segments, and that is this educational segment in schools, and also a problem in achieving our children's health. Introductoryly, I would actually start with your allegations, Madam Attorney, when you say that the actual prevention of violence in educational institutions is still a matter of the goodwill of individuals and is carried out in isolation, and the difficulty creates both a lack of continuous communication, cooperation and responsible school workers, welfare centres and parents. Those are really facts. School workers are neither educated enough, as they will work on prevention, nor have the view of having to do their part of the work, but very often that part of their work is transferred within the school or to teachers, to professional associates who unfortunately have a shortage, to directors, etc., and then the same model is transferred outside the school to other institutions. Unfortunately, very often teachers have their say that they have completed their education to teach teaching material, question and there is the end of the story. Let the rest be taken care of by others. However, which others? Professional associates or extracurricular organizations. But during that time while we are arguing with the responsibility of who should do it, for years the students have been misbehaving unacceptablely and it is true that the younger students actually move this age limit to the youngest students. However, we do not fall from the sky or adults delinquents or offenders, they are unfortunately often recognizable but as children, but in the first day of the first class. As for dealing with students with behavioral disorders, there is such a real problem. The rule on schooling children with developmental difficulties says nicely that students with behavioral difficulties are educated in particularly educational groups. However, at national level, how many such children are observed and how many students with behavioural disorders are referred to these specific groups? You have an example at school that there is an employee defecologist to work with children with behavioral disorders, there is also a solution from the ministry to open a special class for such children, so there is a defecologist, there is a class, but unfortunately there are only two, three students in such a class. Therefore, students with behavioral disorders are not observed at all or sent to those special classes. That's the problem, and that practice can't begin. I was surprised to read your report carefully with examples, so a simple example of an unconscious teacher who would do the least harm in the response to eating, if she moved to another place, because it does the least harm. Or, for example, an educational worker endangers, humiliates, insults, psychological abuses is a conflicting person, does not want to cooperate with persons but continues to work despite the fact that three inspection controls have identified serious irregularities. However, the answer to the principal is that she is powerless and will remain in the middle group for a few years, it refers to kindergartens, because she will do the least damage there. In this system, our children grow up, our children are raised. In fact, we were just talking about a protocol on violence. Mr. Secretary of State, I believe, said that in 2004, a guideline on mandatory action was made, but in practice, the question of whether they were being implemented. It's been five, six years. I'm not sure those who need to spend know how to spend it. And we're wondering what the ministry is doing in this regard, given that we have an increase in violence. So you either have to watch who does what, or the evaluation of that protocol, or you need to change it. Now I'd like to look back on this health care section. Namely, the Republic of Croatia is a signator of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, so the third article says "In all actions, the best interest of the child must be given priority". And Article 24 says "Right to enjoy the highest possible level of health and the use of cure and recovery benefits" However, an increasing number of children are with special health needs. Such children sometimes need some statistics from 3 to 20 times greater needs than healthy children. It also increases the proportion of children with behavioral disorders, then children with mental problems. We have seen statistics or seen reality where these children can be treated, or where they can ask for help. Unfortunately, we also saw how many child psychiatrists we have in Croatia, and how many demands we have for them. Also, the number of pediatricians doesn't fit the needs. Here is an example in primary health care from 2000 to 2009, a 255 to 235 reduction in pediatricians, and the parent’s attitude toward health care has also changed. Of course parents are more demanding for their child day by day. Today I will also mention the example you have probably read through the media, which is when a mother warns of major difficulties in the exercise of the right to dental protection of children with developmental difficulties, of dental care provided by a doctor of dental medicine but not by him, but by a specialist who has specific skills to access the said population of children. It's children who unfortunately can't treat their teeth with dental medicine because of their diagnosis, but who just need the services of an educated specialist team. Unfortunately, however, only two institutions have these in Croatia, but such children also have an increased risk of cavities and oral disease, and of course such therapy is more expensive than regular dental care. A child with developmental disorders should be approached naturally as individuals with specific needs in the first, and only then as a person with physical, mental and intellectual characteristics. Such children, about 80% of such patients are actually taken care of by that specialist without the necessary anaesthesia, but the rest needs intervention in general anesthesia, and I reiterated that such children unfortunately do not have the opportunity to achieve their health. And at the request of the mother-mother-in-law and the attorney-general, as well as Mrs. Attorney-General, who sent the ministry a request to show that dental protection of children with developmental difficulties and adults who cannot use regular dental care has been organised. Unfortunately, no response was received but was offered to conduct a review or therapy in order. Unfortunately, the pervasive developmental disorder has been waiting for a year and a half for his dental polyclinic to repair the tooth from which the filling fell off, however, it cannot happen anywhere. Here he was suggested to go to Rijeka, but the costs will not be compensated again because it is not an emergency. I would actually end this exhibit by quoting Ms. Attorney General again, which says running away from responsibility, ignoring, indifference, reducing problems, non-helpling is not only a violation of legal and moral obligations, but rather a participation in violence, for example, through the tacit approval of any of these actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54492	Thank you very much, colleague. And now there's a debate coming up, and she's registered with a distinguished colleague, Gordana Sobol. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54493	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney-General with the co-workers. My colleagues and colleagues. I'd like first of all to say that I will support the report, accept the attorney general's report for 2009. It is very extensive, very detailed, and I would say this way, as all the other reports of all the other lawyers this year and I think they are just showing how and how our attorneys should work, how they work, or for what purpose they are really and really established. What I am also pleased about is that this year, however, the government has given more attention to all reports except one, but this is not the subject, so among other things, of the report by the Ombudsman for children, and I am glad that in this way, the government has shown that it still cares about what the reports say. What I don't think is good, but maybe next year we'll have a different situation, and I think in the government's opinion, too many governments have set up defences and too little partnership in terms of accepting or not accepting certain suggestions, pointing to the problems we have. Because this is what I would say, and the child's attorney pointed out in this report the problems that arise in implementing certain legal regulations, strategies, policies, or I don't know what. We all know that Croatia has, we have strategies, when it comes to children we have policies, we have protocols, we have provisions through different legal regulations. But colleagues and colleagues, this report suggests that there are problems in a particular section when it comes to implementing what we have written in all these documents. I am saying this because I have spoken this way and when we discussed in this House the SDP's interpretation of the issue of violence among children. I was speaking on behalf of the club then and I said that the government had passed a series of regulations, a series of strategies, a series of protocol policies, and I don't know what not, but what happens in practice, and let only one case happen where someone can't achieve the right they have, which is somewhere written down, so that's a problem that needs to be pointed out and someone responsible in certain institutions, whether it's a ministry, whether it's a county office, if it's some kind of a special institution, if it's some kind of employee in a police station or if I don't know who, it doesn't matter at all, if it shows that the regulation doesn't really interpret it in the right way, that it doesn't apply it then needs to be answered. But it also needs to be answered and someone who was in charge of working on coordination, working on greater efficiency in the implementation of what we have written, and then I guess that's someone in the government, and that's actually the problem we're talking about, and that's basically what our defense attorneys are talking about today, today we're talking about the child's attorney persistently from year to year. And I don't understand the attorney general's office or the attorney's office as someone who should be embellishing our reality every year or possibly reducing the problem or reducing someone's problem to someone who's talking to the Attorney's Office. And when we all discuss it that way, that's how we understand the role of attorneys, then I think we'll get into a situation where the government stops acting defensively and sees what it is that can be fixed and who it is that hasn't done something that's written in some protocol somewhere. Because for example, and now I'm going to start with this part that I'm particularly interested in. Problems of children with developmental difficulties. We'll probably talk about it in one section tomorrow because we have the D.A.'s report on people with disabilities. Therefore, reintegration into regular educational institutions of children with developmental difficulties. It's hard. It's hard because we have the law, but we don't have the rules. So who's supposed to bring those rules? The Ministry. That's what the child's lawyer is talking about, and that's what the Ombudsman is talking about for people with disabilities. And then there are situations that happen then and in the media, and then we all object to what kind of sensationalist it is written about, so whether someone mentioned the child's name or not, whether it's a picture of a child or not, and at the same time we don't do anything to see where the failure is, or whether it's seen where the failure is, someone points to where the failure is, and whoever has to fix it doesn't do it to anyone or anything. But what's important is that in some opinion that comes from the government, we have this law that says it, but it doesn't say, or it doesn't say, that someone in charge of the ministry didn't bring sublaws, regulations, or whatever we call them. The issue of violence against children, among children, is the issue of violence in general, whether we like it or not. We have already received data related to domestic violence in the prosecutor's report on gender equality, which is almost 13% higher in the past year. Now I wonder if we will all be concerned about it together with our government and what we will do in this regard. Is it clear to us that it is not enough to bring a strategy or join a program and put a board on a school and write up this is a school of zero tolerance to violence, and at the same time get data either through the media or in any other way that one of the worst forms of violence between children and that neither the school recognizes nor the parents recognize it. So, we have a problem, and I keep saying that it's not enough to adopt something here in the Parliament or over there in the government, and that after that, I don't know how angry we are when the lawyer tells us that we have problems implementing what we adopted. And I am therefore, in fact, sorry that it happened that, among other things, the Committee on Gender Equality, unfortunately, this prosecutor's report did not go through, or we didn't reach any conclusion because HDZ was abstention. But I'm glad my colleague Glavak said on behalf of the HDZ Club she'd still accept this report. It means there's been a change after all. And I'm gonna end up with one problem that I'm talking about every year when I'm talking about children's problems, which is the problem of alcohol consumption. A problem of addiction. I'm not gonna touch drugs right now, but I want to touch alcohol on purpose because I've talked about it in the context of some other laws that have been passed here and I agree with the attorney in a sentence that says, one short sentence. "The troublesome attitudes of society towards alcohol consumption" wanted me to admit it or not. It is natural to have developed winemaking, vineyards, quality wines etc. What happens to commercials where alcohol is consumed after all – beer is considered to have crossed every line, especially because these ads must be tied to fun, dance, disco and so on and sport, which is even worse. And I'd like to see a little stronger initiative from the Attorney's Office in relation to the government and here in Parliament. But hopefully then we'll all remember that when we discuss some law-abiding type of disorder and the like. So, to start a stronger initiative, to stop at least in prime terms advertising sports and entertainment, so something that directly binds to young generations, with children, to stop advertising alcohol because beer contains alcohol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54494	Thank you very much. First of all, a colleague named Ljubica Lukačić came forward to correct the quote. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's what I'm going to do to correct the incorrect quote of colleague Sobol when she said, when she was talking about kids with developmental difficulties that we're not doing anything to recognize the problem, etc. Of course, there's a problem, and there's one part where I and my colleague might agree. However, many children today with developmental difficulties are involved in a regular system of education, in regular kindergartens that we could not even dream of a few years ago. So it's not true that we're not doing anything. Those children who could not be involved in a regular system of kindergartens or in special programs or schools, so they are children, these parents have mostly exercised the right to parent status and be sure that this government is also taking care of children with developmental difficulties in a special way than they used to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54496	Thank you. And one replication report, colleague Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54497	Thank you very much. You mentioned Sobol to your colleagues young people in the context of alcohol consumption. Well, I don't know, we Croats have nothing to be surprised about, we who care so nicely and lovingly would say toasting culture, the annual consumption of pure alcohol in Croatia is 13 liters of alcohol per capita, while the European average is about 10 liters somewhere. And I think it's really hard to expect young people to resist the tempting marketing messages that those who drink, for example. The Karlovian beer is portrayed as young successful people who have a very good time. Unfortunately drinking seems to me long ago, long since lost the traits of something dangerous, forbidden, something harmful, because it can be harmful something my father almost does every day. I claim that young people drink just to get drunk and absolutely have no sense of guilt or responsibility for what they do. Unfortunately, sometimes there is politics that comes down to the charge of the budget associated with powerful alcohol lobbys, and the complications that are related to alcoholism will be charged in 5, 10, 15, 20 years anyway. So alcohol production is business, and alcoholics are the issue and the problem of socialism, and in terms of business and social welfare, it's clear who wins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54498	Thank you. The answer to the replica of fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54499	Well, my colleague Jerkovic, when I was, so I talked about this problem a lot again. Today I may have mentioned more beer, adverts, etc., because it is a ban on advertising alcohol, and we unfortunately do not have beer, so it is in force, so the problem is that when children are at issue then all research shows that children start all the time before, so that age limit of encountering the first and the beginning of drinking alcohol, i.e. when the child is already an alcoholic, so that limit of age is getting smaller and smaller. But through this I wanted to mention really and what you said, so to point out that the Croatian society towards alcohol, by drinking alcohol and the consequences of drinking alcohol, is not only a narrow family, but, of course, a wider environment, or community, so that the issue in Croatia is absolutely not talked about, this problem is completely, completely neglected and here I am once again calling on the Government and all competent to take appropriate measures in this regard because on the one hand we are talking about violence, we are talking about increasing violence, forgetting that alcohol in the good part is also related to the problem of violence, even when violence is among children. We have the Law on the ban on selling alcoholic beverages, we have inspectors who visit shops and who determine whether they are broken, but the way children get alcohol is the easiest way to get someone older to buy you a liter of wine or two liters of beer or I don't know what sanctions they are, which are taken against those who allow children to get to alcohol, I think they're absolutely too small, because until there's a lot of hard work to do, unfortunately, there'll be still the devastating results that we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54500	It's okay. Surely that's what to do, I believe the attorney general will agree because what is done through the media and how some things are suggested, but it's not just that in this age. Take these children's cartoons of Gacogana, Gormite, dinosaurs, there's no one here at the end is a friend, everyone in the end has to destroy the other, beat, burn, crash, etc. And then that's how it's been going since the first year since they started looking, then in the 14th we wonder that they're perfectly normal that they're not drunk, but drunk with it, and that they just came into a situation so they can do it, and not just look at it. But I'm sure it's very complicated, and that we all have to take care of what is done and how, and who is taking what measures. But Perica Bukic picked up next, so here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54501	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys with associates and esteemed colleagues. The Ombudsman’s office for children has been engaged in almost all areas of children’s life over the past year, warning of unfulfilled rights and unfinished tasks of adults. Last 2009 dominated the threat of children in the area of protection against violence and neglect and family relations and parental care, and many office activities were aimed precisely at removing the harmful consequences of violence or neglect and unquality relations of the family, most often caused by conflict divorces. In the opening part, I would particularly like to single out two phenomena, which are according to the report we received and I think that we can agree with that, were the most represented in the number of reports of child rights violations. These are violence against children and among children and family relationships. During the whole year, we witnessed violence against children and among children, so the lawyer’s action focused on the problem. There is also an alarming increase in the number of children suffering from parental conflict. The place where she should be the safest and most protected becomes the place of violation of many of their rights, which is for them the most painful. And further numerous surveys in the country and the world talk about the importance of the family and its impact on... development of children. ... [[You don't understand.]] The safety of children in childhood depends precisely on the relationship between parents and within the family. [[You don't understand.]] How consistent this relationship is, marked by warmth, closeness and respect, the child will feel secure and protected, but if the child testifies to parental disputes, disagreements or violent behavior, the foundation of his world is destroyed and the child feels insecure. The continuity of parenting is one of the essential preconditions for children with as little stress as possible with this new family situation. And when they don't live together, parental care is common and parents are obliged to take care of children equally, in common and in agreement. Violence between children and children in 2009 also took place in schools, but also outside the school, on the street and sports fields, and is in the virtual world via cell phones and the Internet. Unfortunately, the forms of violence are increasingly cruel and ruthless as we have seen in a report with consequences such as stress, broken nasal bone, easier spinal injury, physical and mental trauma, pain, bruises, fingertips and other forms of violence. In addition to physical violence, children were exposed to repeated psychological and sexual violence. The most important interest of the child in school is to encourage him in the direction of gaining the highest degree of education that he can achieve in accordance with his abilities, to raise him in accordance with the values of democratic society, respect for human rights and to prepare him for responsible behaviour towards himself and others. Of course, the child’s classroom and the school’s professional teaching service play the most important role, as well as all other teachers. Each child needs to know in advance what the consequences of socially unacceptable behavior are and that he will be responsible for his bad actions. Motivating children occupied by the Internet, television and computer games to practice sports and physical activity becomes an increasingly important task and challenge for parents, staff of educational institutions and clubs. In addition to having a positive impact on the overall physical and psychomotor development of the child, the adoption of a healthy lifestyle and working habits of sport has a great educational potential. It also plays a very important role in socialising children and preventing addiction and violent behaviour. These are all reasons why it is desirable for all children to be involved in some form of sports activities and recreation. It is precisely because of the importance of sport that the highest standard for the safety and protection of the rights of children involved in sports should be ensured. The applications were mainly this year related to the inadequate behaviour of adults towards children athletes, intermediate violence, the exclusion of athletes' children from..., the demand for a ransom for transitions to other sports clubs, the failure to provide suitable help in the event of injuries, the media treatment of a child involved in sports. Also, one of the more pressing problems is that we are increasingly witnessing that children under 16 years of age without the escort of adults are wandering the streets at night after 23 hours, often ending in alcohol, or that children become perpetrators, or victims of violent behavior. As we have already heard from the exposure of alcoholism among children, the growing problem has become. Studies show that children are drinking more and more, starting at an earlier age. They rarely consume alcohol together with other substances that further enhance its negative influence. What is particularly worrying is that young people usually drink with the intention of getting drunk as often as they do on the weekends. A growing number of children aged 14 or 15 who need medical intervention because they were found on the street drunk unconscious. After drinking and smoking, unfortunately, Croatian children are above the European average. Apart from alcohol and drugs, gambling, betting, and computer games are increasingly dependent. The problem of addiction cannot be solved only by penalties. It is important to offer children content that will distance them from the source of addiction, design their leisure time, offer spaces and centres for young people and continuously implement preventive programmes. Sport, as we have pointed out, is certainly one of the most successful ways to tackle these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54502	Thank you very much. We have a registered replica, a colleague of Shimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54503	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned various types of violence to your colleague, and you said of course that the child is a witness to violence, most often in the family. But I'd say there's more to home for that brutal violence, the violence from the media. Here's a moment ago, Mr. Vice President spoke about the contents of the cartoons, what's going on and how it's happening. Namely, violence suffers, the child actually suffers this violence in the room, and we know that in a certain time, a period of fact of its growth and development very often the child does not distinguish reality from fiction, so the nightmares are also known from such media content. And that's why I would now use this replica to propose to the D.A. to actually form a group of prominent independent experts who would actually analyse the influence of the media on children and actually make suggestions for repairing the damage. And we also hear very often that parents are in such moments in front of the wall, that sometimes their child escapes to look at such content. And that dork on TV that such content isn't for children, I don't think that's enough. Therefore, such an independent group of experts may need to give instructions because I think this is a big problem, media abuse is a big problem and Internet and games. It's something new that's actually coming and that's why I'm proposing Mrs. Attorney General one such maybe group to form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54504	Thank you very much. A feather? Nothing. Okay. Let's move on then. Dear colleague Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Ombudsman for children with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, all of us who have stayed here on this agenda item. The report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2009 is the seventh in a row that the Ombudsman for children as the authority of the Croatian Parliament delivered to this High House for discussion and adoption and I will support it. In this way in the heat of a struggle, what I said, that is, when I refused the incorrect assumption that the government did not accept this report, I apologize for saying that we would take note, I will, we heard that the HDZ Club would support and I will personally support this report. Last year, when we discussed the report for the past year, I welcomed the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which gave that opinion, as it warned and tasked the competent authorities of the state administration to take appropriate measures in the course of their work to remove the irregularities listed in the report, and they were tasked with further considering, in close contact with the Ombudsman for children, the individual objections with the aim of their rapid removal. So much in favor, that is, against those who said that the government is acting defensively and that the government is not a partner of the Advocate's Office for Children, or the Ombudsman for Children. This year, when I compared the material, this report with last year's, then I found that this has only one chapter less than that for 2008, but therefore 13 versus 14 and one page more, 274 versus 273. And precisely because of the complexity of the issue of the degree of respect, i.e. the threat of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia, which is being taken care of by the Ombudsman for children, here is this extensive, quality and comprehensive material that reminds me very much of the book. Yesterday I got it on the CD and in this format I would like to ask the D.A.'s attorney if this is printed, so published and how it is done, because it's done in the form of a book on the CD and it's really done for the press. I will also welcome what is evident in this report, and this is the pre-active role that the Office of the Advocates for Children spends every year in all those initiatives that were launched during 2009, for all those participations in the regulation, the law and the rest where it is also confirmed, and the report shows that the Government is experiencing the Ombudsman for children as a partner, all initiatives adopted, some which are in the process, the Government has also shown in its opinion what the amendments and amendments or the adoption of new laws will be adopted, be incorporated as laws, and what we call so far no passage. I'm sure the lawyer in the children's interest won't give up and that we'll come to a compromise on the welfare of children. It is certain that three regional offices in Rijeka, Split and Osijek contribute to the increase of applications. And since I am from Slavonia and I am very interested in the work of the Regional Office in Osijek, I welcome all the efforts that the Government has made, in that correction, I said that the government's relationship with the Children's Office has shown itself and by respecting the planned financial resources from which it is possible to arrange a new space for the work of the Regional Office in Osijek, to hire another employee, because the office was only with one employee. And therefore, to create good conditions in this I will again highlight the crisis and recession times when we have to look at the use of each kuna in order to through the work of the office the sensitization of the population in the Slavonian region would be raised to a higher level and get an even higher quality. With that in mind, I am sorry to find it in my report, and I also always repeat it, of the 21st family centre, so since 21st County, the 17th government has established 17 family centres in 17 counties. Unfortunately, the management of Slavonia in Osijek and Slavonski Brod are of the four. 2 are in Slavonia which are not the basics. I know of the reason that existed in Slavonski Brod, the misunderstanding of local environments and the leaders of the town of Slavonski Brod, to secure space. There were professional people. And what was missed at a time when the government wanted and offered in every way possible, that was also the legal obligation in the end. Here it is now missed and I hope that through this, namely, this can't fix it, but we can go to sensitization about respecting children's rights that surely the work of a regional office can't replace the work of a family center. But here I'm saying I'm sorry that out of those four that haven't been founded yet two exactly in the area of Slavonia, Osijek and Slavonski Brod, but I hope and believe that the government will find the means to improve children and families and these centers of establishment. I'll support what the D.A. is up for, and that's for setting up a children's protection clinic in Osijek, because there's a Clinical Hospital Center, there's a medical school, there's a Faculty of Philosophy. And speaking of the lack of all the necessary experts and specialists who are also repeated from the report and in which I speak in my discussions, we must be aware that we have less and less, so that we also get fewer specialists, so young doctors who refer to specializations. But I always stress that the government gives and approves of specialization funds. Therefore, if the specialization lasts for four years, we cannot expect overnight that we will get the necessary specialists and mental health experts. Also, the situation with lack of psychologists in primary and secondary schools, I am now speaking for my field, the area of Brod-Posavina County, is such that until in Osijek, at the Faculty of Philosophy, we were deficited. And we're still deficiting with social educators, social workers and defecologists. I'm talking about my county area. I hope with all those measures, that the implementation of all measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia will contribute to strengthening the part of the system that deals with children and families established in the budget and for this year, so also in this difficult year as a continuation of the activities of the Ombudsman's Office for Children will contribute to even better respect and protection of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia in this year 2010. And, in conclusion, I support the report on the work of the children's guardians for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54506	Thank you very much. We have an application for a replica, a distinguished colleague of Romana Jerkovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54507	Thank you very much. Your colleague Vardić said at one point that the government is doing a lot, enough or all to ensure enough staff to work with children. I have to say this to you, and I have to say that the number of children with behavioral disorders and mental difficulties from year to year is increasing and greater Croatia is chronically lacking in child psychiatrists, especially for individual treatment, because going to a private person, for example. Over 350 kuna. You have to admit that today not every family can afford. The system said to this level that 30 child psychiatrists, 30 clinical psychologists care for the mental health of all children of Croatia. This cannot possibly be enough and I cannot agree with you that the government is doing enough and that this political set that has been in power for 7 years has not had enough time to do much more in this regard. We have a chronic lack of expert staff, profiles and pediatricians and clinical psychiatrists and clinical psychologists, not to mention a huge deficit of professional staff in preschool and school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54508	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54509	Comrade Jerkovic, thank you very much. It's clear to me and I'm pleased that you disagree with me, because I don't expect you to agree with me, but here's the counterweight I'll agree with you that there's not enough in Croatia, that's what I've said in my debate enough of the experts we've talked about. You didn't say there were no orthodontists, we're missing orthodontists in Slavonia, we're missing pediatricians, but it's not all the government's fault, and we can't just accuse the government of that. When you were talking about child psychiatrists, I said in my debate last year, I'm going to repeat in this replica and you, I'm glad that in Slavonski Brod at General Hospital "Dr. Josip Bencevic" works as a child psychiatrist, or a psychiatrist who deals with children and who last year was referred to a sub-species that lasts as long as it lasts, but does not mean that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not give specialisation, does not invest in experts. And something else when we talk about psychologists, it is no one's fault or whether the Croatian Government can be guilty if experts who do not want to go outside their centres are located in Zagreb and in large employment centres. Let's call the province, and the province isn't geographical, the province is in the heads of those experts who don't want to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54510	Thank you. And the last application for an individual debate, distinguished colleague Neda Klaric. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54511	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney-General with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately say that I will accept the report for the last year of the Ombudsman for children because the Office of the Ombudsman for Children in 2009 met with almost all the areas of our children's lives in an effort to warn about those rights that have not been achieved, as well as the tasks that we adults have not accomplished towards them. Likewise, we have already heard that the Ombudsman, with her proposals and remarks, has contributed to the protection of children's rights and interests. Many of the activities were aimed at removing the harmful consequences of violence or neglect and unquality relations within families themselves that were very often caused by horrible marital litigation. But I also think that some data is not entirely reliable, some are in some way generalized, some are overcritical and some claims are made without research, but we also have no aspirations not to admit our weaknesses and say that everything is wonderful and wonderful. In fact, several ministries are included together with local and regional self-government as well as civil society associations, precisely in the effort to protect every segment of our children's lives so that the Croatian child can grow up healthy and securely to become homosapiens and carry the burden of life on his back. I am sorry that in the debate, I failed to correct one of the allegations when she spoke about social care centres that such a situation would last for years without the prospect of solving it, and it was understood that it was actually sub-capacitation in human terms and even in financial terms. So I will say that the new social care centre organisation within the Ministry of Health and Social Care is, in principle, introducing everything in one place in the front office or reception office so that the first contact is of quality already at the level of the very information to professional and advisory assistance, and monetary and other assistance and social services are organised through two professional units. So one in particular for children, youth, family, and another in particular for adults. The social worker in the position of the head/coordinator of approach to the individual design of the care plan includes other experts from the centre of the profile of psychologists, defecologists, lawyers, of course other experts from other systems, which depends on what the need is, I would also say about the need for the problem itself. The new centre work organisation will also contribute to better fostering children, as well as protecting children's rights on islands, because we could also see the Ombudsman's remarks about what happens to children on islands and also contribute to professional support. By deciding on the quality of social services standards, the intention to address shortcomings with active participation of children in the development of individual plans in children's homes without adequate parental care. The education of educational staff in educational institutions, i.e. institutions for children and youth with behavioural disorders has also been started, but it should also be said that after the adoption of the Protocol on the treatment of violence between children and young people and in 2004 the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports provided guidance to all educational institutions on the treatment. And not only that, but it responds to every report of verbal or psychological violence, as it should be said that teachers act and inform both parents, of course and children at parental meetings, in class classes, in practice apply their skills in preventing violence. We would talk too long again about preventive school programmes, but during the same year in 2009, 58% of the total number of children were enrolled in kindergartens, which is 151 thousand 514 children. Of that number, slightly less than 6 thousand and with 5.3% of children involved in developmental difficulties. But we must also say that last year, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports equipped 96 new kindergartens right in settlements, cities and municipalities where there was no organised preschool education. And that along with units of local self-government and regional coverage has been increased with some 9.5 thousand children in 20 counties. We also have to make it clear that this is a great success, that we have 14 kindergartens with the status of centres of excellence, which are regularly held by the Croatian Olympic Committee as part of the Olympic children's kindergarten project. The Ministry of Science also recommended that the founders of preschool institutions agree their working hours with the working hours of their parents and the needs of their children. Educational rights have also not been violated by our high school students since it was already several years ago through national exams and through the probationary state graduation, children have been informed and also with publications meeting the state's graduation and state's graduation. Family centers also we have heard they actually have one preventive advisory purpose for the family, current and future parents, adults and older people, and the work is based on user volunteering and we also have data that some 10 to 30% depending on the county to the county is the share of users of those coming from the center for social care, and according to the information center enters the family center. The Ministry of Health and Social Care will continue to work on deinstitutionalising the social care system and shortening the duration of the child's stay at the institution, as this particularly underlines the Ombudsman. The aim is to achieve a more rational system aimed at the most vulnerable groups, and all entities that are in any way in charge and deal with children in one I would actually say good and coordinated cooperation will contribute to greater participation of children themselves, a greater degree of self-esteem and child self-esteem at all, and especially children whose rights are for any reason at risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54512	Thank you very much, colleague. With this we have exhausted all applications, and now our colleagues and colleagues will finally address the Ombudsman for children, Ms. Mila Jelavić. Here's the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I would, at the end of the day, look back after the debate and after what we heard today in this afternoon's section. First of all, I want to thank you for every discussion, encouragement, and criticism. Each of them will indeed be analysed and taken into account. I am sure that each of us who does such a hard and sensitive job always has space and must find it more effective, that the results of such work feel and enjoy those groups that we stand for and who we are in charge of. In this case, they're children. I am convinced that all of us here, but also those others who deal in any way with children really in this area want everything best. It is the job of the child’s defender to take care of the comprehensive protection of children, all segments of their lives, to look at the whole, and then to warn those responsible if there is something not working in that whole, to seek better access to child protection, to insist on the effectiveness of resistors, individual institutions or individuals where they fail to take care of children, or to repeat themselves. I hope that, behind this discussion and the counsel's reports, such a single procedure will follow, that the resolutions will work with us and together with us to correct what has been seen as a failure. And I am convinced that it is the desire and interest of all of us together and I have no doubt of good intentions at all. When it comes to data that are mentioned often, I have to say one, two actually things, that the number relating to cases of acts of violence in a family committed at the expense of children has indeed been subdued by one clumsyness in interpretation. However, in the later text, this is also clearly seen from the government’s obvious reality and real state. Also, when we talk about children found in night trips in the Zagreb area, there is data for 11, not 12 months. But I will mention that on the 146th page, the exact data on the country-wide exits are correct. So as far as the data is concerned, I think a little bit of awkwardness in the interpretation has led to something that shouldn't. I have to say that we have a basis for work and research and analysis, everything we've done in the past year in relation to all cases and all cases, but also the number of children. 1930 children in individual cases are actually a respectable figure and everything we have done in this area gives us the basis for the conclusions of such, that in certain segments we really miss out on the correctness of care, that is, the event is missed and that we should never treat it as a flat-rate. Because actually when I talk about kids, I'm really not a supporter, and I don't want to talk about numbers. Behind each such number is one life, one child stands, and I think that each child either 130 or 1300, 1900 deserves from us but also from all the individualized approach and consideration of every single one of his problems. A few questions we've been asked here are I have to answer, so the question is why is not a register of paedophiles popularly called in public, i.e. a database of perpetrators of sex delicacies to the harm of children. What I want to tell you is that the Ministry of Justice is under way to draft the Law on Criminal Records and Rehabilitation and that the office is included in the group, or working group. According to the current state of affairs, we have promises that such a register will live in the regulation and I hope so, but I also ask you and call upon you when this law comes into the parliamentary procedure here and to support us even if I repeat what we have from the ministry, I think there should be no problem and that this law should not be brought here today but by the end of this year. What do we think about ending the maternity ward? We would like to have assurances that the measures will reflect the interests of children, and we expect that this will be taken into account as much as possible, and that we do indeed want to take care of each child in person and in every situation, and that is what we expect of all those involved and who make decisions. On the appearance, i.e. the presentation of certain data, when it comes to violence among children, including information about perpetrators of violence or victims, the office's position on this is very clear and it is many, many times made public. We advocate that there is no record of any perpetrators or victims in the public. In fact, they're all victims, and they're all kind of marked, and I think it's our job to help them in that and in those situations where they've shown the inadequacy of behavior to correct them and to show them the way and to advise them to create places where they're going to get effective help. When it comes to advertising alcohol, I must say that we have tried through the Law on Electronic Media to influence, but also other regulations, the prohibition of advertising alcohol-containing drinks. We didn't make it there. We are now taking the initiative towards the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare to intervene in the Food Law. Here I hope and here we ask your support to change something, because actually the problem of alcohol is the problem of many children and what is stated in the report, and that... research confirms that the age of children experimenting, or start drinking alcohol, unfortunately alcohol or alcoholic beverages, alcohol-containing drinks are available to them and can be consumed. [[You don't understand.]] I would also like to say one more thing here, and soon there will be a Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace before the MPs, forgive me if I have misstated the name of the law, where we also suggested that alcohol consumption be prohibited in public places. This means introducing powers to the police to intervene on the spot, for example if in a park or anywhere else where, unfortunately, we find children who consume alcohol today, but the police say it is powerless because we cannot react, we want the law to enter the grounds for their conduct, that they can take away, confiscate or do something with those bottles of alcohol that are here, and children. When it comes to the analysis of the harmful influences of the media on children, I must also say that we have already had meetings with the psychological chamber, we have initiated this last year and that we expect a shift, and we expect their expert opinions, and please support it because we really think that when it comes to media, or when it comes to the influence of the media for children, that there is a lot of room and for improving regulations, but practice, because in the absence of regulations, we should actually have examples of good practice, or what should be common when it comes to children, reporting about children, being all uncompromising and that there should be unique attitudes. And the answer to the question is whether our report is printed, it is done really as, we have tried our best and we have not been published, but it is available to anyone who wants to see, read or do anything else about it, but I want to inform you that the summary of this report that we have made in English and that this summary, and that we have done so before last year, will be in English, because we often have enquiries and international institutions and organizations about whether reports are available in English, because they simply want to compare it with other countries, with the protection of children, or the violation of children's rights. Here we are now in the translation phase of the summary and it will be available on our website as soon as it is translated. In relation to mental, protection of children's mental health, here I will end up with this, in fact, I must say that in the Split-Dalmatia region, I am talking about the region, but also in Slavonian we have had recommendations and sent about the need to establish an institution of a type of child protection clinic in the City of Zagreb, which in a comprehensive, complementary way would approach child protection and help them in all situations, and believe me these are very common situations both in conflicting divorces of marriage and in violence and in various other situations where children are found. And here next week, on Tuesday 15 June, in Osijek, I have a meeting with representatives of five Slavonian counties, representatives of local authorities in these counties and experts, with the intention to raise this issue in both Slavonia and the Slavonian region. The answers we have received so far are that everyone, all of them, sees the need for the existence of such an institution, but money always stands out, unfortunately, which is why something, something, something, or it doesn't have. I hope that we and through this meeting, but also our future activities, will affect the fact that by creating places like this, space for the protection of the mental health of children is actually expanding, that children can get the kind of service they need where they live. I won't even talk about how many times our parents turn to us and complain about why they have to go to Zagreb because going to Zagreb costs money. I think it's important that in the place where they live they get a favor and are actually helped spotfully, quickly, without waiting in line for three or more months because the burden and the Zagreb polyclinics are such that otherwise they can't do it. It seems important to me just one more piece of information from kindergarten to say, I apologize, and that's what I'm going to end up with, that it's in the kindergarten area that we're very differentiating the image. Namely, the information presented in the government's opinion was subsequently delivered. We sent an inquiry into three ministries regarding the protection of these groups of children at the time and last year, but also during the preparation of the report. And I have to say, we had different access to different ministries. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare responded very quickly and accepted what we recommended, sought and provided the requested information. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Science and Education did not do so after the haste, and for these reasons it is actually in the government's clear statement of such a widely written state of kindergarten. If these data had been delivered in time, they would have really been an integral part of this report because there is no reason to, because in our report I'm actually almost not going to say it exclusively, but to the greatest extent we're using the data of the resistors we're talking to and these county offices. So, state-level resistors and units of regional and local self-government and, of course, we will continue to do so because they are also obliged to keep records that are then both for analysis and for creating and certain views, writing recommendations related to a particular segment of childcare. Here is the hope that this debate today will also contribute to the better protection of children and the removal of those negativity that unfortunately we cannot close our eyes and do not see them, I thank you again for the debate and hope that what has been seen will be removed and that, in the future and in the future, we will also have better cooperation with everyone because we also want to have a partner relationship with both the government and the non-governmental sector, because the protection of children is, in fact, above all, also as such must be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54514	Thank you very much. That's what I'm doing here, and I'm closing this agenda. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're not going any further today. We continue tomorrow as usual as President Bebic would say at 9.30 p.m. The point is going to be 4. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-10-0.u54515	Thirdly, Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2009, applicant for children. The debate is closed. The SDP advocates' club and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities have proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion that reads. "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2009 is being accepted. a year." I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This report was adopted unanimously with 109 votes. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: Opinions, observations and proposals presented in the debate on the report as well as proposals and recommendations from the Ombudsman for children given in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent state authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. This conclusion has been reached as it has been stated before in view of this similar conclusion for the Ombudsman. Therefore, let us vote. Let's get involved and vote. The result? Please, let's get on with it. This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 105 votes for, one abstention and nothing against.
