ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57330	Dear and esteemed ladies MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all and I hope you could get some rest. I hope that was a good thing. I warmly welcome you all, especially I welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, Vice-President and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am opening the 19th extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament, called at the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 197(2) and (5) and Article 200. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal on the agenda in the invitation, and the material for the session was published on the website of the Croatian Parliament during Tuesday. They were delivered to the boxes Wednesday morning. That means yesterday. We're moving on to the session's agenda. Please engage to check the quorum. We have a quorum, 108 MPs and deputies are present. We're moving on to the agenda. Do any of the MPs and MPs have objections to the proposed agenda, which you received with the invitation? Since there is no objection, the agenda has been established by the ladies and gentlemen. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, I should now publish the established agenda. I suggest, if you agree, that I do not read it in full, but allow me to announce that the agenda has been established, as proposed and delivered with a call for this session. We're moving on to a debate on the agenda. 1. Proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010, 2. Proposal for amendments and addition of financial plans - Croatian Waters for 2010, - Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2010 3. The proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and the financial plans of the extra budget users for 2010 (consolidated) is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of the State budget, the provision of Articles 174 and 175 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local Area (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Space and Construction, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Let me remind you of Article 38. The budget law, under which amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections should not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projections. During the debate on the proposal for a state budget and projections, amendments are submitted proposing an increase in budgetary expenditure, expenditure above the amounts set out in the proposal for a state budget. The projections may also be accepted provided that a reduction of other expenditure and expenditure in a specific part of the budget is proposed at the same time. The proposals referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines that amendments and budget tabled cannot be voted upon before three days from the date of the debate can elapse. I would ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, to further explain the proposal to amend and supplement the budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57332	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. I warmly welcome you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. With this proposal to rebalance the state budget for 2010, I will explain the most important reasons why the government is proposing a rebalancing. The most important decisions that followed prior to the decision on rebalancing and the rebalancing itself but certainly also try to clarify by the support of Vice-President and Finance Minister Mr Shuker, but also by other members and members of the Government. So, the direction in which we go based both on this rebalance and before the 2011 budget. What is, for example, the main foundation or the main criterion that led us to this rebalance, taking into account the income and the expenditure side, is what we could say in the shortest possible terms of social balance. Thus, the standard of citizens and the promotion of what could be called optimism among citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Since we are also aware today that consumption is dropping, while savings are growing in Croatian banks. This rebalancing, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly something different from the previous and also the atmosphere about the adoption of previous budgets, i.e. the budget we have at all witnessed because of the incredible atmosphere that was created before the rebalancing process, where everyone more or less commented on what they had never seen and all had objections to what the government should have done and not yet done. But there were also a lot of those in public life so, of course, the political life of Croatia that made it very clear to the government in what it can, what it should or should not do or should not do. Of course, on the rebalancing proposal, the final decision will be made by you, MPs and MPs. So first of all, what is on the very basis and this rebalancing is a crisis that we continue to fight systematically, I will say that is the position of the government and the ruling coalition and working on structural reforms and changes. Of course, I have to point out what I have said in public many times in person is that one of the problems that the Government sees in the implementation of certain reforms, of course, especially those most difficult, is the fact that everyone or many would like to change, but there are few of them, and there are also groups in Croatian society, especially in the political space that would like these changes to concern themselves and to come from them. Or translated, when these changes and these reforms and those cuts come to them, they struggle hard. During the presentation, but I also believe during the debate I think I will have the opportunity to elaborate further. As for the programme of economic recovery that is certainly involved in this rebalancing, I must say that I would like to in any way deny all those who speak in recent days, especially here yesterday, that the economic recovery programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not being implemented. I have to deny it, he's having a good time. So far, one single measure has not been implemented, which provides that 650 million kunas to be paid back by the government to the state and public services for Christmases, regressions and gifts for children are directed towards the unemployed and the economy. That was the suggestion. In the end, you know that the proposal has also been accepted on the Economic and Social Council, but our negotiations with the unions on the measure have failed. The result of all this was the government's proposal to amend the labour law, and around the Labour Act everything is known. Around the Labour Act, trade unions have been collecting signatures for the referendum, and one large part of politicians, political space has stood by the unions, so they have opposed the amendments to the Labour Act and that is the situation we have today. Everything else, all measures are implemented according to the programme we have foreseen, means the implementation programme of the Government's Economic Recovery Programme. We have launched many measures and streamlining and increasing the efficiency of the public sector and are continuing and speeding up the work on the implementation of many reform measures. The effect of all these measures, from rationalising the state administration's business through the creation of a system and raising the efficiency of work, cannot be seen immediately, but I am sure with my colleagues and colleagues and I am speaking now of course on behalf of the ruling coalition that it will be seen very much in 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, the government will meet the objectives set by the Economic Recovery Programme and surely the trends will turn slowly next year, but certainly turn around. We still record export work today, it's over 10%. There are other trends that show that slowly, but I believe we are certainly going towards what is called the beginning of leaving the crisis. I want to remind you on the eve of this rebalancing that last year we had three rebalances of the state budget, that only in July we spent, we voted two rebalancings, that we totalled through these three rebalancings the state spending by nearly 7 billion kuna. And if fiscal adjustments and spending cuts hadn't been made, ladies and gentlemen, the 2010 budget would have been higher by nearly 10 billion and that's the fact to be said here today. I would also like to mention that, in the 2010 budget, the exact items are related to the accession process and the total amount means entering the European Union. The total amount for that is 2 billion kuna. This amount did not increase the budget, but was reduced by so much the expenditure on the regular business of the state. Mss. MPs and gentlemen, in the rebalancing that is ahead of you, there are two key elements: the reduction of revenue by 4.5 billion kuna, a reflection of the negative developments resulting from the strong and global economic crisis and the reduction of state spending for a further billion and a half kuna. So I'm warning you of the fact that since the elements of the rebalancing are known that this further reduction of a billion and a half is almost completely silent in the public and skips like it's not there. However, we are also faced with additional needs, i.e. additional resources, and I will now mention everything, but also before that mention a few more facts because there have been some speculation in public these days, for example, that my economic advisers are leaving the team. That's not true, and it's here to resolutely deny it. However, around the main elements of the rebalancing process, I, along with my colleagues, consulted with these four advisers. As you know, this rebalancing proposal was supported by all the union centres, in principle and employers' associations, as I saw yesterday and heard in many elements and the president of the state. What I mentioned earlier, that many were putting rebalancing fences in the beginning of its production. These were, for example, salaries and pensions, but of course, the protection of the most sensitive ones from which we read and protect all those items in the budget that are directed towards certain social groups. So, and an allowance for children and maternity benefits and benefits for the most socially vulnerable. That's what the head of the opposition was saying very clearly to the government if you cut wages or if they cut wages, it's us. We'll get them back when we get to power. So, of course, we are taking care of what is really going on in the Republic of Croatia today before the rebalance to a number of rationalisation measures and some of them I mentioned. I'm going to add more pay cuts to the state and public services last year by 6%, cuts in salaries to government officials by 15% in total. The reduction of the so-called so-called "supply." Preferred, means pensions paid according to special rules for 10%. This is definitely what I should mention to Croatian wartime wartime disabled people. I also mention reducing pensions to parliamentary deputies. Last year... It means 20% in total. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Elimination of free textbooks, etc., etc. Therefore, on behalf of all these decisions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then in the final and many decisions of the Croatian Parliament, we managed to achieve that additional savings from, achieved in this year by nearly three and a half billion kuna or translated. The budget would have been if it hadn't been for those additional measures this year had been and had to be higher by 3 and a half billion kuna. We're also as you know because there's a lot of speculation about what painful cuts they are. Ladies and gentlemen, in Croatia all cuts are painful. Last year, we were reminded only of a party which I led by the HDZ decided to give up 10% of the budget because it was a crisis and because we wanted it and finally returned to the budget. We invited other political parties to join. That didn't happen. Then we made a decision to cut everyone's budget by 10% this year. We are doing a great deal of rationalization, meaning abolishing or reducing a number of agencies and other institutions. Here's the first phase of the 14th, for example, we came on three. I'm not going to list them now, but here's an interesting piece of information for you. But where, for example, it gets stuck. And it's these painful cuts that absolutely no one will recognize, and they're in front of us because of one seemingly truly banal decision to combine, for example, two ergels and save 20 to 30% of the budget money. We've had protests. We have had incredible events that have been culminated with letters in neighbouring and many other countries, and it is only about reducing and rationalising, about reducing administration, about rationalization that can lead to of course additional savings. And every savings is important. See what happened about the proposal to streamline hospitals in Zagreb. Indeed amazing things where, of course, it is said on a political level that it saves, for example, it was heard here in the Croatian Assembly of Savings of 20 writing quotes million kunas of budget money is nothing. I think the government thinks and the coalition I represent now thinks that 20 million kunas of budget money is 20 million kunas of taxpayers' money is huge money, huge money like mountains, like houses, and that every drop of budget money is huge money and that every kuna of budget money is huge money. My colleagues and colleagues, that's my opinion, and you will, of course, prove the opposite. So, as you know, I believe we have made decisions to reduce fees for example in supervisory committees, ban car purchase, actually completely cut the use of cards and what is particularly important has been taken by a series of measures to support the economy. I'll point out here the reduction of non-taxable so-called. parafiscal loads. So what was said in the Croatian public, in Croatian politics, that this should be done, that this should be done. This government did it. So, all these non-tax benefits decreased by 20, the key that concerns, of course, the economic progress of 20 or 25%. We have introduced for the first time in Croatia public procurement, united in one place where we will purchase everything and the result will be in next year, Mr. President please, please give us some conditions for normal work. It's very hard to talk when you have to get used to the MPs of the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57333	I'm really asking to hear from you when you're talking. This will require MPs when they speak of being heard, not to be disturbed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57334	Yeah, you don't have to listen very carefully just please let me talk. So, we first introduced this Public Procurement Office where next year we're saving 300, 350 million kunas. So, I've only listed some of the measures. Ladies and gentlemen, however, it has proved, of course, necessary to ensure this budget rebalancing and certain amounts for the increases that the government and the ruling coalition need to assess. They can't jump and they have to be realized. For pensions, we must provide 356 million kuna in rebalancing. It's also about increasing the number of pensioners. If any of the MPs and MPs think they shouldn't be increased for retirement, I'm asking that at this point in this House to say so and to open a debate about it. It is also necessary to increase the amount of 386 million for the unemployment and active employment policy fee another 50 million kuna. If someone thinks that these amounts for the unemployed should not be paid, then please say so in Parliament so that we can also open the debate. On the basis of the agreement, but also on the basis of, of course, legal obligations towards farmers, we must provide an additional 600 million kuna. Here I'm going to remind you of and I hope absolutely no one is going to misread it, the protests of farmers we've witnessed lately. These were protests involving many MPs and MPs, who offered farmers the purchase of fuel to go to the blockade of Zagreb. Therefore, on the basis of all these requirements that we have heard there and negotiated by the Minister of Agriculture, we have made some decisions that certainly here require now and final realization. For maternity benefits it is necessary to provide an additional 100 million kuna, and I believe that Mss. MPs and gentlemen MPs do not really have any of you who would say that this should not be provided and that this should not be found. For the first time, we have a situation where more children are born in Croatia, and that is something that should really cheer us all up, and I would certainly never sign a reduction in fees or the elimination of three-year leave as it has happened in the past. And finally 300 million, we must provide additionally as compensation for damages from the elemental disasters and the implementation of the referendum, so on the basis of the same Labour Act, the amendment of the Labour Act, which one part of the political scene agreed not to change it, and now we have come to the conclusion that a referendum should be implemented and money should be provided, and that is 170 million kuna. I believe that no one will say an absolute word against these 300 million kunas that need to be secured for the elemental disasters, and as far as the referendum is concerned, that's something that's in place, it's ahead of us, and we have to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of all this, we in the Government decided that in this budget rebalancing we would not cut salaries, not cops, not teachers, not teachers, not soldiers, not sisters, not doctors, and I think we made a good decision, because we reminded ourselves of these salaries by 6% last year. We have also decided that we will not reduce pensions because there is no member of the government who would raise an arm or a member of the coalition who would raise his hand to reduce pensions by 5 or 10%. That's what I'm saying because of all those who talk about how the budget could be rebalanced in 5, 10, and there were those who speak 15 billion kuna. Without cutting pensions, without cutting salaries to cut extras for children, especially for multi-member families, without cutting maternity benefits, without cutting those 500 kunas that receive socially vulnerable persons in Croatia who have no other income, you can not get to 5, let alone 10 billion kuna, because 80%, 7% of the Croatian budget is exactly what I've just numbered for you. So we decided to side with those who are really hard today, who are having a hard time living, but what's most important is that they're afraid of what's going to happen tomorrow. But we have also decided, and this is what we propose to the Croatian Parliament to spend the state budget, to say to freeze, to make a common decision on spending the state budget in 2011 and 2012 cannot grow. It means I can shrink, but I can't grow. We also made a decision and the government will continue its talks with both banks and the rest of the financial sector until the 2011 budget is reached, to see what they and how they can contribute to the resolution of the crisis, to get out of the crisis and to ensure that the burden we bear is absolutely and evenly distributed. There's a lot of reaction to those who are definitely against any bank touching. We believe that banks must also be involved, and banks are operating in Croatia and in these same banks the citizens are saving and in these same banks the savings are increasing, and we have opened up a space for talks, I believe that we will successfully agree that, in which way, once in a year or through another model, they will participate in the exit from the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen in support, not weighty, but the truth about my advisors not participating, not participating, and that they are against this kind of rebalancing, is a few sentences that they just sent me, so let me read some of them very briefly. So, they also think, and the government definitely agrees that Croatia is not in a deep fiscal crisis, Croatia is not Greek ladies and gentlemen, it has its own public finances that manages neatly, properly and transparently, publicly showing the state of the state register, and timelyly settles all its international and domestic obligations. Croatia does not threaten bankruptcy, and it is very, very clear and very precise that I want to say to you, despite all those who want to deceive the public of stories that should have been cut deeply, but of course without the courage to stick their finger to the state budget and to say where. That's why we think that this budget that we're presenting to you today, that is, this rebalance that it's really balanced, I suggest you accept it. Namely, this increased deficit will not deepen the crisis, will not lead Croatia into debt slavery, as this government does not only use the budget as a fiscal policy instrument. The crisis is being fought systematically, strategically and working on structural reforms. And I want to remind you, because it's probably going to open up, in fact, to a purely political discussion, unfortunately, which is often without arguments, with insults to opponents. I personally don't want it to be like that. But I also mention, for example, the 2003 period and the 5.3% deficit. So in 2003, without a global crisis, in a situation where the government cut off everything that was cut, first of all, the salaries of the state public services, but also all those obligations under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, when the government unilaterally broke collective agreements, there were 3 billion that the Government, which came after that, had to pay in the name of the lawsuit and a billion-and-a-half more on the behalf of the Croatian defenders who sued the government, i.e. a resolute ministry for failing to fulfil obligations. So a total of nearly 5.6 billion. Imagine that these expenses where we'd probably be today. So, look, it wasn't 450 years ago, and it should be taken care of, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, developmental allocations from the budget do not decrease and are far greater than deficits. I'll mention some of them. Capital investment and the state's contribution to the total investment activity, direct budget stimulant towards the economy in the form of subsidies and aid, important tax charges I've already talked about, but I'm going to count now. So we cut water contribution, forest contribution, contribution to the tourist community and monumental rent, and reduction of direct labour taxation. So the income tax has been reduced. At the very end, I will mention when it comes to the deficit that is happening to the deficits today in Europe. So here, Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic have a deficit of 6%, the Baltic countries over 8, and the most economically developed countries and over 10%. All those deficits, ladies and gentlemen, were up in 2009, and we're going to go with this rebalancing to something slightly larger than 4%. We are convinced that all the measures we implement in order to freeze the budget, i.e. expenditures for the next 2 years, will succeed in the basic plan, which is to protect citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia so that they can live, that they can plan the future because today we decide to cut salaries, and that those who say that the budget can be reduced by 5 or 10 billion actually say cut wages, reduce pensions, reduce the allowance, reduce social threats. So, without all of that, we can welcome 2011 with moderate, but certainly with optimism. Because, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who says that savings can be spent, I quote, "In general, savings on all discretionary items," or anyone who says that savings can be spent, I quote, "On everything that would be said broad spectrum," doesn't say anything. You must speak, ladies and gentlemen, specifically. Toe-toe-toe, to say who needs to be reduced. We can open a debate. But as far as the government of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, there is no reduction in salaries in 2010 and there is no reduction in pensions. In order to protect the most sensitive who must live, who have to study their children, who have to enroll in colleges, who have to buy their children books, shoes and who finally, ladies and gentlemen, have to go to the market, have to go to the bakery and buy bread and have to bloody work those who work and earn their wages regardless of their headache or what other part of the body. Thank you very much. I suggest you accept budget rebalancing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57335	Thank you very much. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57336	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I am correcting two incorrect allegations. The first is, Madam Prime Minister quoted me and said that if I cut my salary and pensions, we'd get them back. I'm doing this... I only said that once at a time and that for the IRS... [[/The speaker doesn't understand, the microphone's off.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57337	Please, let your colleague make his correction. Please! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57338	So that's what I said about tax breaks. For those who don't know the difference, they don't know. Another false allegation, this was one, one canonadized reckoning with something someone said. So then Madam Prime Minister in this House turned to all of us, so both to you and to us, and she said...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57339	Correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57340	So, Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor has sent a message to all those, so both of us and you, both the CNS and the HSS who advocate and who are saying that we need to cut salaries and pensions...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57341	Mr. Representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57342	It depends on the President of the Parliament whether he takes my word or not. He can do it, but I can't talk to you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57343	It says here one minute to correct an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57344	And you're estimating whether we have the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57345	There's two minutes here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57346	But I can't talk. They won't let me talk. So they're shutting me down a little bit. So I think I'm not gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57347	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57348	So the Prime Minister said and sent a message to all those who advocate... Neither the HSS nor the HNS has ever pawned and no one has ever said that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57349	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57350	And no one's ever said that, except you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57351	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, you're the first one to correct the incorrect allegations today, so it can become a precedent for others, you know. ... Wait, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He can become, then any MP can say if he could and that one can now and I can, right? And it says here, "If a representative asks for a word to correct the wrong quote, the chairman will give him his word as soon as he finishes speaking to the one who made the statement. In his speech, the representative must be limited to correction. Otherwise, the president will take away his word, and the representative's speech cannot last longer than one minute." Please hold on to it, everyone, you understand. Because there were interruptions a little bit, etc. That's why. But I beg you, say the word no matter what you say afterwards. I'm correcting the incorrect quote that and that one. But speaking like this and commenting, I mean, it's not right. I ask you to hold on to end in a time that is acceptable for all of us, and that is to discuss today the budget rebalance. That we don't go to tomorrow, because then we're gonna have to vote after three days and it's gonna be over on Tuesday. So, all of this has its own. Please, I'm talking about everything. I'm not just telling Mr. Milanovic. I'm talking about all that. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57352	Now you've given us a lecture and it's your right and your job. I tried to say, and quote the quote that was corrected. That's what I've been making impossible. Thank you for not taking my word for it. Are you going to warn those who are yelling or not? It's your business. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57353	Thank you very much. I consider this a contribution to what I've already said. That means we stick to the Rules of Procedure, stick to it for one minute and correct the incorrect allegations. I'm not saying it because I like to say it, but what it says in the Rules of Procedure, and we'd all like to end today's debate in normal times and normal circumstances. And I pray that we generally refrain from some difficult words, and it will be easier for all of us. And we can express everything in one acceptable way, even the corrections of incorrect allegations. That's why we're moving on now. And I ask Mr. Zoran Vinkovic to correct the incorrect allegations. And that one.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57354	A little quieter. Correcting, Mr. President, I'd like to ask you first to bring order into the assembly, so I don't have to lose my voice. I'm correcting Mrs. President's incorrect quote. Cain, please be quiet, Madam President, who has said that by joining the ergels, rationalization has been achieved. It's not rationalization, it's cost increases. And here I am taking this opportunity and I will immediately repeat, I think we have agreed that together with the ministry within two weeks, that the Government should be given a motion of rationalization that will go in such a way as to create, that the director of Đakova ergele should be the director of HCK, that the director of the Lipic Ergele be his deputy and that HCK's seat can be arranged, that he has three personalities. Another incorrect quote... /The speaker turned off./...the time, so I can't calm you down then still watch your time. This is a circus on this side. The second incorrect quote is Mrs. Kosor is not in anyone's interest. The street is that problems are solved on the street. I'm asking you to open your eyes. And I invite all of you openly to come to Djakovo, fear nothing, is this not. ... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57355	Finish it, Mr. Representative. Oh, don't make excuses. The Prime Minister didn't mention the principals of the ergels or anything. What you're correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57356	So look, you don't understand. ... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57357	Please, sit down and move on. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57358	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the inaccurate claim made by the Prime Minister to save every kuna. If a column, a fake car column goes to Osijek, and the prime minister flies by plane, it's certainly not savings. If he's also coming back, then it's certainly not saving. Furthermore, Madam Prime Minister... /The speaker has been disfellowshipped. /...this is really rude, you've learned that, gentlemen of the HDZ. If Mrs. Prime Minister mentions representatives who were at the peasant protests, that's me. But, Madam Prime Minister, you proved by giving 616 million kuna to agriculture, that we were then as right as those peasants who were with us at the barricades. So you understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57359	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57360	I am correcting Mrs Kosor's incorrect claim that the SDP was against 20 million kunas to save the rationalisation of hospitals in the city of Zagreb. We weren't against rationalization, we were against demagogy because rationalization and savings are gone. And you, Mrs. Kosor, all-insistently supported the minister in the fact that, overnight, he abolished and wiped out four children's hospitals that were the only ones specialized in Croatia for children. And one more thing, Mrs. Kosor, stop hiding behind the.../Speak off./... start talking about Franja Tudjman, Evey Sanader and that in the last year you have caused 80,000 job losses. That's what you start...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57361	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57362	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Madam Prime Minister, who said that this went to us in the city of Zagreb did not mean anything that would have been saved by 20 million kunas by joining hospitals and because it was precisely by joining the hospital "Srebrnjak" with the hospital "Sv. The spirit" destroyed 300 million kunas that the European Union was supposed to pay for the construction and construction of the Center... medicine and will now fail in water. And the total savings amount to 318 million kuna for all rationalizations and state and city hospitals. Second, not a single papri has been sent to the City Assembly on the issue of rationalization. In accordance with Article 13 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, the Commission is to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013. The constitution is said that without a decision by the representative body on changing status issues, hospitals cannot be decided as the minister unilaterally decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57363	This was far broader than correcting an incorrect quote, because no one mentioned either, or the other, or the third individual hospital, but we're moving on. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic has a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57364	Thank you, Mr. President. When Mrs. Kosor said that due to the cutting of rights to Croatian defenders during the coalition government in 2000-2003, the charges of Croatian defenders who burdened these governments followed. It's just incorrect. For your political reasons, you have put aside the power of certain provisions of Pancic's law and created these obligations yourself, and with your further harmful decisions, which were not limited to God, the number of defenders rose from 400 thousand to 500 thousand, and the number of retired military persons from 20 to 50, and several thousand, and these decisions created new 2 billion kuna commitments in the Croatian state budget. That money better be spent on opening jobs for Croatian defenders and their children. And while you're at it, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57365	Thank you. There's no room for debate. There's no room for correction. Thank you. ... There is a word, a correction to the incorrect allegations by Mrs. MPs and Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57366	I want to correct the incorrect assumption that all critics of this government and this draft budget rebalancing are in favour of any reduction in salaries, pensions or social contributions that the Prime Minister has repeatedly proposed in her presentation. It is true, Madam Prime Minister, that critics of your government, your policy and your budget are pushing for growth policy, development, revenue side of the budget, real sources for this growth which, unfortunately, you have not spoken a single word in the opening budget. ... You can spend, but unfortunately you don't know how to create the conditions to create. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57367	You can't correct the quote if you say you haven't said a word about anything. So that doesn't make sense. There is a correction to the incorrect alleged also Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57368	I'm correcting Mrs. Prime Minister's quote, every kuna, every dime for this government is big money. You, Mr. President, said in the introduction that this extraordinary session of the Parliament was called upon at the government's request. The cost for today and Monday will be about 200,000 of these very important kunas. According to the Constitution, the constitutional deadline is the first day of the Parliament's regular session in 18 days. In the introduction, there is nothing to explain the reason for the extraordinary session of this rebalancing of the state budget...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57369	Well, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, it's a debate about whether it's supposed to be an extraordinary session or not. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57370	I corrected the quote... /The speaker turned off./... I don't know if summer vacation is the reason so much, the amount of this insolence in microphone exclusion, you tolerate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57371	Like this. This House adopted the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and adopted the agenda. There's been a debate about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57372	I'm not discussing the agenda. I'm discussing the allegations of Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57373	Thank you. ... Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Now I pray like this. I think we should also hear part of the opening argument from the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivan Shuker. ... Do you think I should? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I ask Mr. Ivan Shuker, Deputy Prime Minister, although he has the right to report after every debate. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57374	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Obviously, this debate today will not respect the power of the arguments, but I will, for the record and for the Croatian public, present some facts that are simply unobstructive. They are who they are, whether someone liked it or not, like they were in the past years. And I will also say something, is something happening to Croatia that does not happen to other members of the European Union and our environment? Have all these countries had government budget deficits below 3% in recent years? They did, because if they hadn't had a government budget deficit below 3%, they wouldn't have been in the eurozone, they wouldn't have met the so-called. Master criteria. However, the economic crisis is something that has led many of these countries to think, in the opinions this government has faced, so all coalition partners participating in this government and make sure that a series of analyses have been made before the proposal for this budget rebalance. So, most of these governments have not in the past years, over the past year and a half have decided on more drastic cuts and what happened to them today is that the United Kingdom has a 12% deficit, that one Ireland that was the notion of economic progress yesterday and economic growth has a deficit of 10.7%, that one Spain has a deficit of 9.8, that one Germany has a deficit of 5%, that one France has a deficit of 8.3% and can count so suddenly. Also, listening to the debates and listening to what economic analysts and opposition politicians have been saying in the past few days, not knowing in what direction this budget rebalance will go in, I think if you read your statements from the past 10, 15 days this budget rebalance with 90 and some other percent covering what you've been looking for. You said you wouldn't cut pensions, they wouldn't cut salaries, they wouldn't cut social benefits, they wouldn't cut incentives in agriculture, so let's see what the structure of the state budget in the Republic of Croatia does, which makes those 120 billion, and what we could agree here today through a constructive debate on what should be cut into to reduce the state budget. Look, giving to citizens, households are 65 billion 200 million, and you know what it is to you, it's 35 billion for pensions, 20 billion for the Croatian Health Insurance Office, so for health costs, for social benefits of 2 billion and 200, for maternity benefits of 2 billion and 200, for child support of a billion and 780 million, and salaries of civil servants and public services without health care are 22 and a half billion. So 65 and a half and 22 and a half are 88 billion kuna. Financial expenditure, so interest expenditures are 6 billion and 300. So that's 94 billion. The incentives in agriculture to Croatian railways and HBOR are 6 and a half billion. It's already 99 billion kuna. Support units of the local self-government fund and units of local self-government in the area of special state care 5 billion and 300. So that's 104 billion. 2 billion, in fact 2 billion and 190 and a billion 350 are funds for Croatian roads. So that's 104 billion. The funds for Croatian highways are those 60 June billion and 350. So that's already about 105 and a half billion kuna. Material expenditures consisting of, among other things, the transport costs for employees and other material rights employed by state and public services are 8 billion and 600 million. In these 8 billion and 600 million is the domestic component of Croatia for the EU pre-accession programme. The funds for the modernisation of the Croatian Army are in line with the commitments made at the time we entered into, in fact, when we joined the NATO Alliance. So all of this together when you add it up to you is some 114, 115 billion kuna of 120 billion kuna. And let's go here today like, don't be offended by serious people, divorce a debate that would cut my spending. What can we reduce from these expenses? So, this coalition government headed by HDZ decided that at this point simply because of the protection of Croatian citizens' standards, it is unacceptable to cut wages, because we did so last year at 4 months. It is unacceptable to cut pensions and it is unacceptable to reduce the social rights of Croatian citizens. So that's the decision of the coalition partners. And the spending party is proposed as it is and we can discuss it. We can talk about numbers like this and numbers like that. But these are numbers that simply stand in the budget, they simply stand. And if we all agreed, so in some debate before this budget saw the light of day that we didn't have to touch all these items, then I don't see why so much controversy and bile about it if we all said we shouldn't touch it. But apparently, some have said that with figs in their pockets, not knowing which direction the draft of this budget will go. However, what you would very much like to discuss, what we should very much do, want to reach a consensus with you is the revenue side of the state budget. Because this increased deficit and a reduction in revenues in the state budget have been achieved by reduced economic activities. And do we, if at any point in time, evaluate any protests and estimate that we should prevent all possible and impossible investments in Croatia from being involved in daily-political purposes, we will attract investors. And there's one thing that needs to be said clearly here. The model by which economic growth was created based on the state budget is unfortunately a spent economic model for the simple reason that all public companies in majority state-owned property are already over-indebted and very difficult to invest. So, if we want to talk about the fact that we want to increase the revenue side of the state budget, and it's obvious at this point, given that we all agreed that we can't reduce expenditure, the only instrument for reducing deficits then we need to think about how to strengthen that economy. But then I say not when it suits us to support such or such protests for this or that reason. Because look, the revenues of the state budget, let's say it's the base year of '98, actually 2008. So it's the last year in Europe and in a world where there have been positive trends. In our country as well as in the world, the fourth quarter was negative. In the world it was the third and fourth quarter. When you look at the revenue side and compare it to what we're planning now, so the revenue side fell by nearly 8 billion kuna but the expenditures, the cost level is 4 billion kunas above that in 2008. And let's not forget that in 2008, we had a deficit of only 2 billion and 200 million kuna. We were practically in balance between income and expenditure on the state budget. And that's something we can talk about today. We can talk about some taxes. But if we want to, like we all say, we want to do something. However, to distort the facts, to talk about Croatia being in such a situation or such. I will now return to what Mrs. President said and what I said at the beginning, and that is the deficit of individual members of the European Union. You know when Greece got in trouble? At the moment the investors said we won't finance you the reprogramme of your commitments and we won't finance your deficit of the state budget because this is simply the kind of consumption and this kind of economic policy doesn't guarantee us that something will happen and that's when Greece finds itself in trouble. The European Union has prevented Spain and Portugal from finding themselves in the same problems. And now look, Croatia is the first country to issue bonds on the US market after the Greek crisis. You can check that out, first country. So, international financial institutions simply said they believed what we were doing no matter how we were fighting. But great disappointment in Croatia because everyone expected no one to issue bonds, so neither will Croatia and then attack the government that the government is in charge of so many and so many billions. And at the same time, we all forgot that we had brought the budget and the budget law, which clearly stated that in 2010, we would be in charge of 28.6 billion kuna, and there clearly cost 8.4 billion to finance the deficit, and 20.2 billion to reprogramme loans from previous years. So Croatia is the only country that has succeeded, the first country that has managed to issue bonds after the Greek crisis, and that is why we expect and it is certain that this kind of budget rebalancing will come to positive assessments of all international financial institutions, especially with this conclusion. And I sincerely hope that if the debates and announcements before this Parliament are genuine, and if it is a real desire to keep spending at a certain level that the conclusion that the level of consumption in Croatia is frozen for the next two years, that we will all send a clear message to Croatian citizens to worry about their well-being regardless of what political options we are and that we will adopt these conclusions unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57375	Thank you. We have corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mrs. MP and Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57376	The imprecise quote of Mr. Minister who reads, says we all need to think about raising the revenue side of the budget, i.e. how to create, how to achieve economic growth. We in opposition, Mr. Minister, can think about it, but you in the government need to work on it, because if you're just gonna think about it, you don't deserve to take that position. You not only don't do it now, through this budget, you're not doing it throughout this period since 2003, but you've been doing it very successfully how to spread the costs, you've been able to spend a lot more than economic growth every year, and now you'd be saving... economic downturn. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57377	This way, Madam Representatives and Vice President, you've corrected the possible thinking of a government that isn't there. That's what you said. If we go forward with these adjustments of thinking possible, then this institute of correcting an incorrect quote will be truly completely bananad to such an extent that it will no longer represent any instrument for correcting an incorrect allegation. I'm asking you to correct the incorrect allegations, not the possible thinking of a government that isn't there. Please welcome Mr Davorko Vidovic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57378	I am correcting the incorrect quote of Mr. Minister and his predecessors when speaking of the draft law in amendments to the state budget was used in terms of budget rebalancing, because this is not about rebalancing. Rebalans, the word itself says it's about balancing, establishing a balance between the income and the expenditure side, so in this case it's from the imbalance... Increases, the spending side increases, and the revenue side decreases. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] So it's about increasing imbalances. It is therefore more useful to talk about changes, and any amending budget is not necessarily a budget rebalance. So don't use it anymore, but you're talking about the imbalance of the state budget, it'll be much more precise... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57379	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mr Goran Maric, on behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57380	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Prime Minister, dear ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 at the 60th session held on 25 August 2010. In the introduction, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out, among other things, that in the structure of total income, tax revenues are planned by a new plan at the level of 62 billion kuna compared to the original projections were reduced by 3 and a half billion. The total expenditure of the national budget for 2010 was planned at the level of €122.3 billion and the expenditure of the increase increased by € 1.2 billion, amounting to €12.3 billion. The most significant increase concerns pensions, unemployment benefits, active employment policy, subsidies to agriculture, and compensation for damages caused by elemental disasters. It has been pointed out that these changes and additions to the state budget plan are planned revenues of € 108.3 billion, expenditures of €122.3 billion, which is planned for a total government budget deficit of €14.1 billion or 4.2 of the estimated gross domestic product for 2010. With this rebalance... additional savings on the expenditure side of the budget, reducing budget spending by a billion and a half kuna, but due to the need for additional funding in certain categories of expenditure such as pensions, unemployment benefits, agriculture incentives, damages caused by elemental disasters, and the final effect of the rebalance is an increase in expenditure by 892 million kuna. [[You don't understand.]] Several opinions were given in the discussion on the board. Among other things, the opinion has been expressed that the proposed rebalance of the state budget, that it is brought with delay and that technically it is a rebalancing. The opinion was also expressed that the rise of the government budget deficit to 4.2% of GDP in... would not pose a particular problem if those funds were directed towards creating a new value. [[You don't understand.]] The Committee also held that the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2009 and 2010 in order to reduce public expenditure and rationalise business were reduced at the total level of state spending by 6.1 billion kuna, thus preventing the increase of the budget deficit to 5.3% of GDP. The Committee also points out that this rebalancing of the state budget should certainly be supported because the Government of the Republic of Croatia well assessed that further reduction of the salaries of teachers, professors, doctors, other medical staff, police officers and other public and civil servants, further reduction of pensions, reduction of unemployment benefits, maternity benefits, child benefits, social benefits would result in a negative effect on the income side of the state budget, economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia and the standard of living citizens. It is also pointed out that very often the rebalancing, or budget, is seen isolated from the Croatian economy, and that the budget has actually mirrored the Croatian economy. It has been pointed out that the main obstacle to recovery, economic recovery is a low level of credit activity of business banks, and that in the last 20 years it is at the lowest level and that there is therefore no reason and that measures must be taken to increase the credit activity of business banks. A positive assessment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision was made which at the moment gave up the increase in VAT rates as well as the introduction of a tax on bank assets. For these measures would certainly have a positive impact on the revenue side of the state budget, but would have a detimulative effect on economic activity as a whole. After the debate was held, the committee decided, by a majority, 6 votes in favour and 5 votes in favour, to propose amendments and additions to the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57381	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Economy, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic, chairman of the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57382	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament at its 40th session held on 25 August discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget for 2010. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative informed members of the Committee on the macroeconomic framework, revenues and expenditure of the state budget, as well as the assessment of the overall lack of the state budget as well as the lack of a consolidated general government. The total planned revenues of the state budget are € 108.3 billion, expenditures of €122.3 billion. Therefore, the planned total deficit of the 2010 State budget was planned at 14.1 billion and 4.2% of the estimated GDP. After the opening argument, a debate was opened which opposes the different views of the board members on the role of budget rebalancing and the budget deficit in economic recovery, taking into account the comparison of high deficits and credit responsibilities of the countries in the environment. It also raised doubts about the possibility of controlling deficits and exchange rates in the following year. On the other hand, most board members supported the positive social side of the budget rebalancing, i.e. retaining wage and pension levels as a contribution to the preservation of Croatian citizens' standards, as well as a direct contribution to the preservation of domestic consumption. It is pointed out that unfortunately the budget rebalancing, and in particular its expenditure and cutting public spending, is used for pre-election purposes and is as an example the stated statement by an opposition leader regarding its proposal to reduce the mass of salaries in public services. The discussion also opened on the structural problems of the Croatian economy. First of all, industrial production and structure, i.e. the share of high technology in the processing industry as an important indicator of economic competitiveness. Committee members agree that structural problems are only partly due to the current economic and financial crisis. It is necessary to strengthen horizontal support from the Ministry of Economy, thus reducing sectoral ones, and to direct them to an innovation-based and high-tech industry, thus developing an industry of greater added value as a contribution to increased profitability and competitiveness of the Croatian economy. After the debate was held, the committee decided, with 6 votes in favour and 3 votes against, to propose amendments and additions to the 2010 State budget to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57383	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr Furio Radin, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities considered this proposal to be an interested working body. In the debate, most committee members supported the proposed changes and additions to the state budget, with a warning that the current complex economic situation should be approached quickly and reconsidered and the overall budget concept, as an increased budget deficit with unfavourable economic developments could soon make it difficult for us to face even more difficult problems already in the preparation of the next budget at the end of this year. The opinion was expressed that the rebalancing process was delayed and that, if it had not responded, it could have provided significantly more budgetary resources, that it had responded earlier. The question has been asked what funds will be spent covering the budget deficit and whether and to what extent they will be focused on economic recovery and development, as their possible use could only give a further deepening of the economic crisis for final budgetary consumption. It could only further deepen the economic crisis. In accordance with its section of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed those parts of the amendments and the addition of the state budget relating to the financing of programmes and activities aimed at the exercise of the rights of national minorities and the protection and promotion of human rights. It has been concluded that no major changes have been proposed on these budget items. Although it should be borne in mind that for some of them a reduction was proposed. Thus, funds for associations and institutions of national minorities are reduced by 1.2%, i.e. half a million kuna, and funds for free legal aid from 6 million 835 thousand to 3 million 735 thousand. That means about 3 million and 45%, respectively. So the applicant was asked to give a more detailed explanation of this change. On the board, Mrs. Orlandoini of the Ministry of Finance gave an interpretation that it was because she had not yet followed a free legal aid method, but that only from next year that she would actually show herself in all her power. An explanation of the proposed reduction in the funds of the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and how to address the problem of annual fees for the use of public roads and tolls for the most disabled is also requested. After the debate was held, the board decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to amend and supplement the Croatian budget for 2010. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57385	Thank you. Is there any more interest in the representative? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, Mr. Representative and Chairman of the Committee, Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57386	Dear President, Prime Minister, members of the government and fellow MPs. At its 43rd session, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget for 2010. In the debate, most committee members supported the proposed changes and additions to the state budget, more, because the government is doing everything possible to preserve social justice with the stability and sustainability of the system. It stressed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is reducing budget spending, but is not jeopardising the standard of living of citizens. For example, there has been no reduction in the salaries of public and civil servants, and there has been no reduction in pensions and benefits for the unemployed. The government of the Republic of Croatia has proved responsible for the current social moment and social reality in which many citizens find it difficult to live on their salaries and pensions. This is why pension and salary and education and science as well as the unemployed are further increased. Furthermore, the debate expressed the satisfaction of the social partners of the proposed solutions, as these changes and additions to the state budget have not reduced neither salaries nor pensions, nor other social contributions. It has been pointed out that this budget rebalance is on the way of the government's economic recovery programme, aimed at the prosperity of the Croatian economy with capable entrepreneurs and hardworking workers. As there was a reduction in the total revenues of the state budget, an opinion was given that the banking sector should also contribute to the recovery of the Croatian economy. Most board members support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as various measures reduce public expenditure, as well as the economic recovery programme encourages economic activity and reduces the deficit. In particular, it is a pleasure that the government does not intend to sell state-owned companies at this time. The debate expressed an opinion that should be more effective and sanctioned. working on black. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to bring amendments and additions to the 2010 State budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57387	Thank you. Is there any more interest in individual committees? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57388	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I wish this discussion was the introduction of budget rebalancing, yet more focused on what will be in 2011, 2012, 2013, and not on what someone reportedly said somewhere, what the newspaper wrote, television published, what someone gossiped about, etc. But we have what we have. So the key problem of the Croatian state and Croatian public finances is very simple. The last budget in 2003 was 77 billion kuna. This budget on the dispersal side is moving about 120 billion kuna. That's 50% growth. It'll be calculated by everyone, including those who don't do math. Meanwhile, the Croatian economy has had several years of growth and has been falling for the last two years. So we have, on the one hand, the awakening of public expenditure, on the other, a much smaller growth of the economy, and the last two years and the fall. Anyone who ever ran a household, raised any credit, bought an apartment, a car, anything, books, it's clear that such a disproportionateness for a long time is unsustainable. And it is the space where we live and it has become a place of consciousness from the financial space in Croatia. And people get used to that kind of thing being possible, normal, sustainable, and eventually no one's going to pay for it. And then comes the crisis that hits all the countries of the world and Europe and then starts talking about painful cuts. And we've been listening for the past year to the intense Prime Minister talking about the need for courage, painful cuts, about how to say where and how some people like to say it, cut it, rough, unnecessary words. And we're waiting for something to happen. No, we didn't propose to cut wages and pensions, as no one from HDZ or your coalition partners suggested. That's what some people used to play balloons. But nobody really suggested it. It was said that salaries and pensions were something that should be the last line of defense. But no one's ever said that if the pay and pensions cut it, it'll bring it back. However, it is in the extreme line and irrelevant, but pure truth works. And when it's quoted, it would be good to quote it a little more seriously. The one who graduated from elementary school knows there's some rules worth it. Maybe not like for scientific papers, but that there's a little order. So let's not plant each other and throw it at each other. I'm standing here from what I'm about to say. So, the Prime Minister has repeatedly denied me, said the need for reforms and cuts. Of course, it's hard to say what and when. Otherwise, it is very difficult and otherwise it takes a lot of political and human courage. It's not easy. And I'm not saying it would be easy for anyone. And then what do we have? We have a budget adopted in December 2009 for this year 2010, which envisions a practical growth in budget expenditure. In the year of economic downfall, in the year of real depression. The same budget adopted in December 2009, so for a year within the biggest crisis of the last 70 years, does not foresee along with the economic recovery plan. That's not the plan. Well, if he's not already on paper, I guess he's got it in his head. But it's not on paper. But you know why it matters? It is important to be on paper at the same time as the 2010 budget, because these are probably organically related processes. One doesn't work without the other. And then it comes April 2010 and the government comes out with a programme of economic recovery, as if it's something that's being financed and coordinated from the lottery gains. It is not something that is organically linked to the budget, which is a picture and opportunity not of Dorian Gray, but of the Croatian economy. And then you bring up that economic recovery plan, but you don't go into rebalancing. No rebalancing, like it's two separate worlds. And then the rebalancing is delayed until the end of the 8th month. I agree with a respected colleague named Lesar who asked a question, actually why this session today? Well, that was supposed to be us at 4 months. But if it wasn't, then this cost of 200, 300. How much? 150 thousand kunas, 210 thousand kunas, a fellow Međimurec is very responsible for every kuna, so he knows that, so it would seem to be a drop in the sea. However, we could have done this on September 15th at a regular session according to the Constitution, but we didn't. So obviously, I don't know maybe I'm wrong, someone might want to send a message we're worth a lot of work. We're running an economic recovery program. It is a document that is completely out of line with the current budget, adopted in April 2010. In that... And if it wasn't for the best words that were delivered separately, so... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The money, so this is the program, this is costing, and if this is going to be seriously implemented then every national kuna is in line, but you obviously don't get it, or you get it, but you act like you don't get it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So that's the economic recovery programme as one of the most important objectives, 1) fiscal consolidation, and 2) a gradual reduction in the share and expenditure and income of the general government in GDP by 3 percentage points. So he says in point 3 of the April activity this year, drawing up a plan to cut state spending. I don't know if you've made that plan to cut state spending, but I don't know if you brought that clutch to the government. I can see on the portals that it is, but God's state budget is reduced by 900 million kuna in this rebalancing process or maybe increased by 900 million kuna. So, the state budget has been increased by 900 million kuna, and here it writes the drafting of a reduction plan for state expenditure, the objective of fiscal consolidation. A gradual reduction in the share and expenditure and income of the general government in GDP by 3 percentage points. So how do you plan to achieve that, how do you plan to achieve that if you've already done the opposite in the first step. You say, this budget, or these budget expenditures, are the basis of 120 billion kunas or ceilings for next year, so for 2011. So in 2011, you're planning to raise $120 billion in revenue? ... And now we are, it's a practice, Mr. Taxer, and now we're down to how many billion kunas. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So my people, from which, from what income is this intended to be achieved? So if this year's total deficit is going to be over 15 billion kuna along with the guarantees for shipbuilding, what revenue is that supposed to be, from which income is that? If you threw less, and I didn't throw one at you, then I'd be more polite, but unlike you, I'm decent, I'm not rude. So don't throw it away. No one threw you away and insulted you as you spoke. And so when we talk about painful cuts then please don't mention that word at all, don't mention reform, don't mention adjustments, don't write them anywhere because this evidence here says you're not doing it. You're doing exactly the opposite. Now, if these expenditures and these increased costs were to go towards fiscal consolidation, they would go towards economic growth in at least this year, which all the countries whose deficits are listed this year, so they all have some kind of economic growth, and they all have a very clear projection of the fall in the budget deficit this year, and they have all achieved all of them according to the state of public finances of the European Union, the official document of the European Commission. So people do something and it's not easy for them and for that some get applause on the open stage, some get criticism, but people do their job. So, I'd like to go back to the beginning of something I said, which I didn't invent, or I came up with, but I just read it. The Croatian state, since HDZ is back in power, is growing at one rate, its economy is growing at one rate, and its public expenditures are growing at another rate. This rate of expenditure growth, therefore public consumption is much higher than the growth rate of the economy. In other words, we earn something and spend a lot more. And that math is correct, it's simple, it's as painful as any home budget, although I'm not saying that running a home budget and a state budget or budget is the same thing. For this second, it takes more knowledge and more experience and more courage and more responsibility, but ultimately the bills need to be paid. So, in this year you obviously plan to re-indebt, place Croatian bonds on the US market at a high rate. She's really tall, she's taller than she's getting paid by those other countries whose deficits you've been telling us about. Our rate is more unfavourable. Did you tell us during this debate where you talked a lot more about who wrote what, who called who or who called who, did you tell us how you intend to fill the deficit for next year 2011 because in that year we're obviously going to have a big deficit? So you're not going to tell us that under these conditions, economic stagnation, which is the fact, budget revenues are going to rise. That's a serious problem, the revenue side. They can't grow, they can... They can eventually stagnate. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] If this year, Mr. Minister and President, Madam President, if this year the Croatian economy falls or experiences a negative rate of growth of 1% or 2%, the forecasts range between 1% and 2%, as you will see that difference, this deficit that is reflected on all the items in revenue is compensated next year rather than by debt. There's no money. Let's ask ourselves one more thing. I spoke here a few months ago so I was criticised by the Prime Minister for underestimating our tourist workers when I said that God had given us shore and sun. God gave the coast and the sun, we settled it, created our own country, and people work. How who, but people do. But suppose there is no such income from tourism and that it does not exist in the Croatian balance of payments. Let's imagine he's gone. My colleagues and colleagues, you have to have a little imagination in politics, not fantasies, imaginations. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Imagine if it wasn't there. Imagine there isn't, but just for a moment. ... And that's a question that we have to keep asking ourselves, we have to keep asking ourselves questions about who we are, how much we are worth, and how resilient we are. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Because you know why I say that? I'm saying that because other countries don't have it, they have to rely on other resources, like Međimurci for work and for this country's scum because they don't have tourism. Something is more difficult for them, and Croatia does not succeed in this year's economic growth. And so I say, let's imagine ourselves, if we didn't have that blessed resource that we have what would be. And on the development of that resource... On the development of that resource... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57389	Please! Please let me...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57390	Maybe just a little bit, no fuss, but just a little less. So without that resource, it only shows how unfortunately Croatia is dependent on one resource, and it is not enough to grow at the rate at which it will grow this year. Poland for two years, the Czech Republic, all except Serbia and Bosnia. These are our neighbors, we have good relations with them, we can build them, we invest there, we'll invest even more. But objectively, colleagues and colleagues, it's not the European and the world's first league. What we want for Croatia is to be not 28 on the world table, where it is objectively and belongs to the quality of life, but to be 15, and that is not just tourism. This is enough responsibility, hard work, fiscal responsibility, savings and spending where spending is smart. And that's why this is no longer a question of knowledge. You're perfectly clear what needs to be done, but you don't want to do it. I won't charge you with a lack of courage. Just for some reason, you don't want to do it. The battle for Croatian strength, independence in financial terms, resistance among Croatian voters will be fought over which they will trust to do the necessary things. Don't talk about painful cuts if you can't even imagine them in your sleep and get the courage to spend them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57391	Thank you. We have a lot of corrections to incorrect allegations. First up, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57392	I thank Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. He says that the prime minister only talks about difficult and painful decisions and cuts without making them. That's not true, and that's the quote I'm correcting. Do you think you and your colleague Milanovic have a 6% reduction in salaries for state and public officials, for state officials 10 plus 5%, for judicial officials a 10% reduction is not a difficult decision. So abolishing the procurement of textbooks from the state budget for primary and secondary schools is not a difficult cut, that reducing pensions under special regulations to the disabled of the Homeland War are not difficult decisions and cuts, that introducing a special tax is not a difficult decision and cut. Yeah, they're... when she brought it in, and the citizens accepted it. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] But you and the members of your party expected far more. You expected a cut in wages and pensions, you expected to eliminate incentives in agriculture, you expected workers, pensioners, peasants on the streets, you expected a Greek script, but unfortunately, thanks to our citizens, none of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57393	Thank you. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica is also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57394	Here I am correcting two incorrect allegations by Mr Milanovic. First, that this budget rebalance is not in line with the economic recovery programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is absolutely incorrect, all figures are harmonised. It is incorporated into this budget rebalance of the economic recovery plan. The only point the prime minister spoke of was whether or not it could not be harmonised is 600 million kuna, and the reason you opposed the amendments to the Labour Act. This is the only point that could not be foreseen in this budget. The only amount envisaged is the regrettably referenda. Another incorrect allegation is where Mr Milanovic has been saying that someone was prime minister all along, whether the minister was always talking about what someone was saying and didn't talk about the future. You are just being denied the proposal for a conclusion which is on our benches where the total level of expenditure of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 and 2012, which means that it was very much talked about the future and this conclusion as the basis for the adoption of future budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57395	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57396	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am also correcting the incorrect allegations by Mr Milanovic saying that this budget rebalancing is not in line with the economic development programme and the economic recovery programme. Just the other way around. It is fully consistent, except in the part of which Mrs Shuica said, and the important measures that are being taken here with this budget rebalance are exactly in line with the economic recovery programme. The savings of all the ministries of billions and 500 million kuna are in the wake of the rationalisation of the state administration's business. One of the essential measures in the economic recovery programme is tax system reform. Of the 1.7, thanks to this programme of economic recovery, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have paid 4000 kuna by this implementation of the economic recovery will have a salary of 4400 kuna. Almost 8% will increase wages thanks to this programme of economic development and recovery of the Republic of Croatia, and this is seen in this budget rebalancing on the income tax item. Therefore, the overall budget rebalancing, or budget that will be adopted, is fully in line with the economic recovery programme and it does not say that Mr Milanovic is not in line with the economic recovery programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57397	Thank you. Correction Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57398	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Milanovic claims that the government does not have enough courage for painful cuts and the like. We've heard the numbered painful cuts so far, and every cut seems to have been more painful for you than for people, for citizens who have been very understandingly accepting it. Unfortunately, here you have encountered every test balloon about this rebalance unprepared and the fact that you expected something else, some other black Monday, some other scenario of the collapse of power than what's going on. And that's what hurts you the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57399	Correction by Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57400	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Representative Zoran Milanovic, who says that it is not the right time to adopt budget rebalances, i.e. that we could wait three weeks. That's really not true. The government chose the right moment to rebalance the budget, as it also suggested that there would be budget rebalancing by some opposition MPs speaking in public, i.e. creating a psychosis of fear that there would be a reduction in both pensions and salaries and social contributions. And precisely because of these over a million people, so pensioners and employees and those receiving social benefits should at this moment bring this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57401	Thank you. Correction by Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57402	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting Mr. Milanovic's incorrect quote that he said. The economic recovery programme is not in line with the items of the budget. That's incorrect, Mr. Milanovic. By implementing precisely the measures under this programme, the government reduced public expenditure, rationalising both its administration and its operations in these two years by 6.1 billion kuna. So it's not a little bit. That's a lot. We heard here, there were painful cuts. When we brought it in, you said we weren't thinking about citizens. Now that we've brought that into our minds about the citizens, that we're also socially sensitive at this point, you're opposed to it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57403	Thank you. Correction Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57404	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Milanovic, you said the Međimurians don't have tourism. It's incorrect. The Međimurians have very good tourism, and quality, but you said they had to rely on their work, as if the rest of us weren't working. Well, that's offensive for the rest of us, and of course for my farmers who work hard and carefully, and that's why I'm proud that you've seen the moment of our agriculture and that in these compensations and these damages you've thought about this very important population. Furthermore, you've been thinking about who said what about the pay cut. Well, it doesn't matter, but you've reduced during your term of office and nurses and cleaning women and doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57405	Correction Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57406	Mr. President, fellow Milanovic is a tell you know what to do, you do not want to do. That's not true, this government is what needs to be done and it's doing it now. It is a pure demagogue on your part towards the citizens of Croatia whom you, when the SDP was in power, which is what counterpart Milinkovic said reduced and abolished salaries to nurses, cleaning women, and other public servants, and in very large percentages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57407	Correction, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57408	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, so here I will correct the incorrect quote of counterpart Milanovic, where he claimed that the government is not implementing the measures taken by the economic recovery, and that they are not in line with this budget rebalancing. Namely, only the savings that have been made lately amount to $ 3.4 billion and clearly show that they are not in this budget rebalance plan, if you had looked at it clearly, you would have seen it. This is a fact that you cannot avoid because 3.4 billion kuna saves only from the planned budget until 2010 to the current one that is certainly talking about the implementation of economic measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57409	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57410	Mr. President, here's just a brief report for some technical details, so I'm asking you until the debate is over so there's no confusion. Of course, with all due respect to tax collectors who are doing a hard and demanding job, which requires first and foremost a lot of knowledge, I would like to say that there are no taxpayers in the government, the vice-presidents of the government and ministers are sitting in the government. And I ask that this is what MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament accept, accept as a fact that neither Deputy Prime Minister nor Finance Minister Mr Schuker is a tax collector, but is Vice President of the Government and Minister of Finance. This is what I ask for because of the dignity and the Croatian Parliament, as well as the dignity of the government, whatever any of you think about it. Secondly, about the criticisms that are coming and we've heard from the Social Democratic Party Club. So first of all around, it's good to know the name of your party, that's very good. That's very good. So, as far as finding that the economic recovery plan is gone, that's incorrect, I deny it. With regard to the reduction of expenditure as one measure of the economic recovery plan, that is the measure, it is only of course to be read and seen in which period this measure will be fully implemented and I ask you to take this into account, it is very clear in the programme of economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Finally here we are being asked, and I quote the question for some reason you don't want to do it, I assume it applies to the government. Of course my question is what and how this, we haven't heard a single proposal on how to reduce expenditures, except what we heard, is that the other day here in the conversation of Mr. President of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia on a television, on the question of what and where could be saved, I took it off because it's very stimulating, we heard the answer. So there could be more savings than 5 billion kuna, which would say a wider spectrum. So these positions, which would say a wider spectrum, there is no, and secondly, the second question which is the cuts that are supposed to lead to those 5 billion, is the answer, so general savings on all discretionary items, finished quote. So we got that in response to how to save 5 billion kuna. And as for the savings around this extraordinary session of the Parliament, I think that every kuna is as big as a mountain, and that should be respected by those who send their representatives to America for 2, 3 months to do other jobs without sitting here in the Croatian Parliament, and here they receive wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57411	The rest of the time, Minister Shuker. Here's a correction to the incorrect quote of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57412	Thank you very much. For the second time today, Prime Minister Kosor made an incorrect claim that she had referred to the Council for a reduction in state expenditures as set out in her economic recovery plan. We see that we have nothing in the House today, the expenditures are increasing, and the conclusion that next year these same expenditures will be held is not a reduction, or maybe she thought otherwise than she wrote. If it says in the economic recovery plan, we do not see it done on 24 August 2010. That's just not true. This country will continue to spend as much as it has spent so far and nothing has been reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57413	Correction Mr. Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57414	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that some are sending their agents to America. Representatives can only be from the Assembly, so either HDZ or SDP. SDP didn't send anyone, HDZ didn't send anyone. So that's an incorrect quote. However, some people went about their expenses, for during the war they defended Croatia. They didn't get apartments, they couldn't learn English, so they paid for two weeks on their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57415	Thank you. The rest of six minutes, Mr. Vice President Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57416	Thank you very much. I'll apologize to you, Mr. Milanovic, for the intruder she was. Okay, but I'm proud of what I've done in my life, because I've learned something. But we tax collectors have learned that at least we can calculate correctly, and you've brought out a series of inaccuracies here. Like that. You said we spent more than we made. You obviously forgot what deficit of the state budget you left in 2003... My God, the truth is true! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In 2008, so before the economic crisis, the deficit was 2 billion and 200 million. So it's down by 8 billion, actually compared to what's left is 10 billion. So, if it hadn't been for the economic crisis, this thesis just didn't stand. But as interesting as I was saying, the structure of our budget would be very interesting to see what that budget has increased 34 billion over the past six years. Well, then tell him maybe he shouldn't have. Payments of 6 billion and 100, interest rate billion and 300, subsidies billion and 700, of which subsidies in agriculture billion and 667. Aid to local self-government units 628 million, HAC and Croatia highways 2 billion and 800; pensions 8 billion and 900. HZZO, therefore, health costs 7 billion and 700, birth benefits a billion and social benefits 371 million. That's an increase of 34 million. However, because of the Croatian public it is obvious that some things must never be forgotten, you are because you could not be in charge because the financial world did not believe you... You sold 2001. 16% of HT, so you sold the control package for 500 million euros to finance the deficit. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] You sold the Rijeka Bank in 2002 for 55m euros to finance the deficit. You inherited 301m euros from the privatisation of the Privredna banka Zagreb, which sat down in 2000, the privatisation was made in 1999. Also in 2002 you privatized the second part of the PBZ and received 140m euros. You sold the Split Bank in 2002 for 37.7m euros. You sold the Anita-Vrsar Hotel for 140 million kuna. You sold the Croata-Cavtat Hotel for 100 million. You sold the Excelsior Hotel for 15 million. You had a famous privatisation of INA 25% plus 1 share for 505 million dollars. So that's how you financed the deficit. That's how you financed the deficit, and that's the truth. And look at six years since HDZ led this country which we privatized and why we spent those funds. And that's the facts and that's the truth. But, Mr Milanovic, you didn't even have the courage to tell the Croatian public what to cut. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57417	We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57418	Thank you very much. I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that the government left a greater deficit in 2003. We obviously have a finance minister who doesn't know how to count, so I'm going to tell him how much between the years and the year was a deficit. 2000, 6 billion and 100 kuna, 2001. Four and 300, 2002. 3 and 500 and 2003. Two and a hundred. A total of 15 billion and... Just a little bit, a total of 15 billion and some kuna, and only in 2 years of HDZ, this and the past, is 25 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you know what else? In those four years, the economy has grown 20%, and in your time in the last 2 years it has dropped 8%. Mr. Minister, grab a microphone and count a little. ... Excuse me, take the calculator and count. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57419	Correction, Mrs. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57420	Minister Shuker here claimed that the SDP forgets what we left behind in 2003, presented a series of data and said that we are actually the culprits of the crisis. Mr. Schucker, all you've said together, you need to know that for seven years you've been in power, since you were 90, you've been in power for 17 years, and it's amazing that you haven't been able to fix what we did for 3.5 years, as you say. And let me tell you something else, this is how you're doing today, the Minister of Government... which has been turned into a circus, to laugh at everything that is said only the gentlemen speak about how much you care about Croatia and how much you care about the problem in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57421	Corrections, preferably to say, I'm correcting that and that. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57422	I'm correcting only one small piece in a series of incorrect allegations that Mr. Minister has said from this pay phone, which is that in the last few years, he says, he always likes to say, pay is up by 6 billion kuna. Mr. Minister, who's had a raise? Why don't you say that there's been an increase in the wage rate for civil servants that you and your ministries have employed over the past six or seven years? And remember what you said as Minister in 2004. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57423	Thank you. Correction...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57424	There's been an increase in the pay mass because you've crossed state service, and now you don't know how to handle it. And, Mr. President, please, please be sure to warn Mr. Secretary Shucker that he will choose to behave here in this House at the very least during today's debate. I don't throw him or spread my arms when he's talking about that pay phone. I won't let him do it either. And I ask you to protect me, not just me, but all the other MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57425	In this I fully agree that all MPs and representatives as well as government representatives should be protected. So, however, everything needs to be looked at in continuity and globally, not individually, you know. There is a correction, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57426	Inaccurately Mr. Minister claimed, the world did not believe you at that time from 2000-2003. Now it's even too much to talk about who he trusted, but the fact is that it's to you by '99. For years, only Turkey has communicated with us. And not to elaborate everything because it's a short time, and there's no need for that. Your colleagues told you earlier to open up to the future, not only to look at the mirror as it was. But the thing is, Mr. Minister, that you, or the entire government headed by Mrs. Prime Minister, are no longer trusted by the citizens, and neither do you. Because with this one false confidence that you started with, you want to be alone... /The speech room is off./...but it just doesn't work anymore. And you're aware of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57427	This question of false persuasion and so forth, I think I once asked not once, but several times, that a little different, falsely is a little harsh word. You can say don't tell the truth, like this, like that. So let's not go too far, and it'll be easier for all of us. And Mr. Igor Dragovan's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57428	I'm correcting Mr. Shucker's claim in the sense that he said he was a very good accountant. I don't think he calculated well, because he's missing two billion missing from public companies, while the Prime Minister was Ivo Sanader. So put in that account of yours and the two billion that went missing from your public companies. And mention in front of the Croatian public when you're already talking about numbers and you're counting, that half the management of the public enterprises you've put on the charge of economic crime. One part still sits in Remetic, the other waiting for trial. So much for your management.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57429	Please, if the money's gone somewhere, there's nothing easier than walking after the money and you'll know exactly where they went. It's simple where the money ends. Find out where they ended up. So we're not saying anything at all. Okay. Now, on behalf of the club IDS, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57430	Here's the deal, gentlemen. Peace is fine. Here's a headline from the Mornings a few days ago. That the government didn't take anyone, and that's why we're all going to have less. I think it's the most picturesque picture of this particular rebalancing. Or I'd say, after you gentlemen sink everything for power, power for nothing. And indeed the future authorities of this rebalancing, I fear the same budget, will take every opportunity to succeed. But I need to save the country, and I'm going to talk about Istria. The future government, I'm really afraid you'll find yourself in a situation that will have to cut budget expenditures maybe up to 10%. And God forbid I'm wrong. Is that going to cause dissatisfaction for the citizens? I don't even think so. But the alternative is bankruptcy again in which 10% of people would profit, 90 percent would go bankrupt. And that could be the conclusion of these seven years, and mostly periods of 1. Seven. In 2090 to this day, 26. 8. 2010. And gentlemen of the HDZ is not exactly a claim, but let's just say you created a state, but these are the kind of budgets that have ruined the nation. And God forbid I'm also wrong. And why is that and what's waiting for us after this rebalancing? This year, it means up to 15. The 7th, we're in charge of 26 billion kuna. By the end of the year, another six billion kuna loans are due. I was talking somewhere in the 7th month, because I was just counting on the rebalance to cut a billion, a billion and a half kuna, that we'd be in debt somewhere by 5 billion kuna, but this is not the kind of disaster that I could have predicted for the greatest disasterer in this House. And that specifically means that Croatia will need gentlemen next year to be in charge of at least 35 billion kuna. And we may be Mr. Minister on the occasion of 2011 to borrow those 35 billion kunas, but in this consumption in 2012, I'm afraid it won't be possible anymore. And that's the problem. Croatia will not be able to borrow 35 billion kunas in 2012, and how many will be borrowed in 2011. And that's what the government knows. It is also clear to all of us that the time before us is election time. To choose any right I agree is politically risky. But what this government leaves behind, I'll say it openly, gentlemen, is not good. What's more expensive finally when we were saying that we should go to elections a year ago, elections or I don't know which ones cost as well as a referendum of 170 million kunas or bankruptcy? What is more expensive for Croatia, to extend the entry into the European Union in 4, 5 or 6 months or what do I know to go bankrupt? The question is whether Croatia will conclude negotiations this year or next 2012. The elections, I say, could have been the lowest cost in this country. And bankruptcy always affects 4 million people, and it's always profiting from 500 thousand people. They're the ones who got rich for war on suspicious business after the war, stealing. And I also claim that the elections could be a valve to reach consensus with the people so that they could take unpopular moves, and this all comes down to one wrinkling. First, since recovery we're all here conscious there's nothing. Croatia will get into even bigger problems and I'm afraid that we'll experience the bottom of the bottom somewhere around the Vazma in 2011, and then we'll go back a few years to the bottom. I wonder, I am not Nostradamus, but it will be so. And I wonder then, gentlemen of HDZ, why must Croatia go bankrupt in order for you HDZ to be in power when you enter the word? Why am I so pessimistic, Mr. Representative, even though I probably predicted 2008 as well, which is going to be the ninth and tenth. But I'm not far from it if I say 2011 will be far worse. Why? Now let me show you right on the numbers. The number of employees on the day Sanader leaves in this country was a million 524 thousand 360 means the day before Sanader left. A year later under new authority, we have a million 435 thousand 341 employees, or in one year this new government lost 89 thousand and 19 jobs. 89 thousand 19 jobs have been lost, or to be even more precise, in Mrs Kosor's year, the number of employees has been reduced by 89 thousand and 19. So much now for compliance with these programs of yours, etc. It's falling... I'll get to Istria. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Industrial employment is dropping, employment in crafts, trade, employment in public administration, processing, health care is rising. And why it's going to be harder in 2011 especially around Wazma that same year, because of the effects of seasonal employment. In the fifth month of this year, unemployment was 17.2%, at the 7th month... Come on, don't be silly. [[The intruder doesn't understand...]] In the summer i.e. In July of this year, 16,4 and this says that this tourist season has not led to any twists, but it's getting worse than 2009. Last July, we had 14% unemployed, this year 16,4 and in 2008 there were 12.4% unemployed, today 16.4%. So we all know what we can expect, that just in winter will be hell, and so without the courage to do anything with this budget, it's cca 40% of gross social product. It all comes down to that folk's "write home failed," but for a longer period of time. And why is that, gentlemen of the HDZ? Because in order for you to repeat the elections in 2007, you literally destroyed Croatia and that's only one from the team, only one from the ministers. He ran the party maestro and won the election. Drop down. But how did he get them and what did it do to Croatia? 2005. Milanovic spoke we had a budget of 87.9 billion, 2006. 96, 2009. 118, today 122 billion kuna with a decline in gross social product. So, if the 2005 reference is spent today after the record drop of the 2009 gross social product, for those 5.8 and this year it will be 1.5 to 2%, so -7.5% compared to 2008 we spend 33 and 25 billion kuna more than the pre-election one in 2006 and that's the main problem. We just ate ourselves. Once worded, consumption was to be seen when trends were frozen in 2008 to at least that level from 2006 or '07. as you now promise to freeze consumption in 2011 and 2012. Public administration hypertrophyses, social rights also, defenders from 360 jump to 500 thousand, trade union rights also increased the number of pensioners and today clearly cannot go back without challenging this social gift. And that's the point of our problem, so that one word of economic collapse. So, I mentioned gentlemen of these 89 thousand and 19 fewer employees in 2010 than in 2009, the decline in gross products. Up to 15.7. The government took 26 billion kuna loans, up to the end of the year 32, which is a quarter of this year's budget. We're living off an ino battery. Industrial production, investment, it's all down to 19 to 21 counties. The efficiency of all entrepreneurs towards economics, rentability, productivity, and now we have this last quarter, we need to go to school normally, books, to start heating, to return the nation from the fairies, to credit is becoming more difficult. It's all credit for the state, business becomes the greatest privilege, to advance the penalty. By the 5th month, 10,000 people had gone into early retirement, which required 512 million kuna. By the end of the year, another 20 grand will be in early retirement. Not to mention what Pancic was talking about, that he left 20,000 defenders retired, that we now have 56,000 and 58. With HVO, the Croatian Army, that's 85 thousand 778. The 2 billion today, then, is 5 billion. And this drop in staff of 89 thousand and 19 leads to pensions now going to an additional 360 million kuna, which will be small, and by the end of the year also means 400 million kuna for the unemployed. However, I would say in this way that this rebalancing and policy is a couple of excellences for buying votes as it has always been. As it is possible to spend on the Gazenica near Zadar, here is Minister Kalmeta, with 32 million kunas increasing by 22 million. Why didn't those 22 million kunas remain for shipbuilding? And apparently, the huge shipbuilding of that subsidy, side 64, from 102 million kuna, is reduced to 72 million kuna, a small shipbuilding of 6 million is taken 2 million kuna. The material rights of the unemployed, side 75, are clearly raised from 1.1 billion kuna to 1.5 billion kuna. Okay, because people are losing their jobs, they're supposed to be moved, but the need to save jobs is almost 100%, from 99.8 million kuna to 800 thousand kuna. Istria is taking 7 million kunas, okay, let the deposit expenditures be taken down, hospital, but give those 7 million kunas then to build that burned-out school on the Veli Vrh which the prime minister promised and finally to those 66 million goes to some 15 million kuna VAT which again directly enters the budget, etc. Come on, put something back. I won't talk about agriculture, etc., but I'll tell Mr. Representative where Istria is. Istria records 2,000 besettes, the record surplus, the largest in Croatia, 828.5 million kuna, export growth 36.3%, has the best business economy, as well as labour productivity, the highest net profit per employee has Istria. However, much more than this statistic I would say big me worry about maintaining these small entrepreneurs who are fighting for naked survival so it can be said that the one who will survive this in 2010, '11. He will live forever. This kind of budget he has, I'm not going to say it's a rotten broad flax, but I'm going to quote a title from the Globe that said he doesn't do anything, to pray to God that he goes through a crisis and dig up something for Sanader, but I'm also saying that Sanader can't be the culprit for everything. And now what do you do? I think the best effect of recovery could have been elections. The later they choose the new government, whatever it is, the harder it's gonna be. Investments would increase, if I didn't know about consumption. Instead of this tax on banks to be introduced in 2011, it is clear to introduce this tax on dividends in this country, the difference between passive and active interest tax or post an agreement with banks will not be taxed, but lend to citizens the interest they have in the European Union. Tax and monopolies. Let's introduce differentiated VAT rates, especially on food. Since the conversion of war profit, it's clearly not going to be anything. We have 230 untaxed incomes. In 2002, we paid 5.7 billion kuna for them now 12.2 billion kuna. We need to create an investment climate. Now we can't even devalue the kuna clearly, God forbid. It's supposed to be kept as a pupil of the eye, but it was supposed to monitor this inflation in '94. And the media needs to let people work. And I would also say that, finally, in this psyche of the fear of prosecutions that have not led to any judicial verdict, but that's why they stopped public finances, you can't and you don't have to waste words. Let's legalize this illegal construction where it's possible to fit into spatial plans, pull two, three billion kunas, etc. etc. And for the end, if in four years a new power only two sentences The new government returns what this government has destroyed in the last year of those 89,000 plus 50,000 jobs. [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end!]] Be careful if he returns the gross social product to the level of 2008 may not do much but enough for two mandates.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57431	Thank you, Your Honor. You're out of time. Thank you. Please thank you, you can't talk any further. You're out of time. Plus you can get...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57432	Can I have some water?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57433	All right, all right. Take it with you. Okay, here's the glass. That's what matters. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the honourable representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57434	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, so here I am correcting an incorrect quote. One of the incorrect allegations in a series of inaccuracies said by colleague Cain as always, and he said that we created a state and that we had ruined this budget rebalance in the future of the nation. This is absolutely incorrect and does not stand since clearly this budget rebalancing shows that 3.4 billion kuna is insulated and reduced in further consumption, public spending, that the budget deficit will be 4.2% compared to 2003 when without a global crisis when there was 6.3% without the sale of all public enterprises, hotels and shares in the company's ownership structure was 6.3% of the government budget deficit. So what was that then? What was it then if we had now ruined the state and destroyed the nation. Tell me how you can claim such terrible things that someone has ruined the nation by these improvements that have been made to the budget rebalance. Why do you always tell lies and why you always draw attention from the real facts that are in this budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57435	Thank you. Time. Please! Let's stick to time. When there's a time meter here that determines when it's leaked, it's almost gone. Thank you very much. Let's go with the corrections. It's an honorary representative of Andrija Hebrang's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57436	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In predicting the disaster, colleague Cain has said several disastrously incorrect allegations, and I will correct two. First, he said Croatia with such financial indicators will not be able to enter the European Union. That's incorrect, because Croatia meets all the criteria, so let me remind him. With today's rebalance, we're going to have a minus 4.2 budget deficit. The European Union average is minus 6.6. With today's budget rebalancing, we also find public debt. That's the total debt of the state. Public debt is 52% of gross domestic product in Croatia. The European Union average is 80. And another inaccuracy catastrophic. The unemployment rate in Croatia is 9.4% of the poll recognised by EUROSTAT. 9.7 is in Europe. So 0.3 we have less polling unemployment than Europe. Therefore, we are also entering Europe through all your catastrophes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57437	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57438	Mr. Vice President, here's a colleague of Cain's, as usual, we're used to listening to him, a series of incorrect allegations. I have to repeat this once again that we've created a state, because we've created it all, normally, and we've ruined the nation. I don't see what we've ruined the nation for, because unfortunately, the state is working on your grief. So, it pays off everything and even the loans of the former state seem to me now we've liquidated the Paris and London Club. So there's that one a long time ago. That's one thing. And secondly, you say this country has to go bankrupt. No, they won't! The recipe of this people knows very well. As long as the Kukuriku coalition is in opposition to the state won't go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57439	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here are the three incorrect allegations of Mr. Caine to be corrected. The first one says that with a budget like this, you HDZ gentlemen have ruined the nation. You are others inaccurate with the budgets, you have destroyed Croatia with these budgets. And the third public administration is hypertrophy. These are indeed incorrect allegations. Mr Cain, because the measures to reduce budget spending were not implemented in due time. The 2010 budget would be 3 billion and 400 million kuna, and the budget deficit would be 17 and a half billion kuna. In addition, expenditures for 2011 and 2012 are frozen and should certainly be welcomed from the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57441	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57442	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues have already corrected incorrect allegations. I must have been burned by these guys that we ruined the nation and destroyed everything. But it's absolutely incorrect. But it is true, colleague Cain, that such a catastrophic approach certainly does not contribute to stabilisation but rejects potential investors, because believe that they certainly read the media for sure and follow what is happening to us. But one thing's important. I think you've simply strayed into this area of economy that's a little difficult. You're simply an expert in studying and glorifying NOB and so be it. You, too, have provided the greatest number of corrections of incorrect allegations in this House and so on. ... It's not? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Okay. Inaccurate allegations and surely you don't know what's true in the end, which isn't, but you talk, and we're moving on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57443	Correction of an incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57444	Thank you very much. All of these figures that my colleague Cain made in his Nostradamus enthusiasm are incorrect, and it is also incorrect that Croatia must go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57445	Your Honor, I beg you to stay away from that kind of thing, no one here is a coward, but a talking man. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57446	Oh, no, since he's from the coalition, so I thought so.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57447	We can't do it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57448	This one so that Croatia must go bankrupt for HDZ to be in power. But while today's Kukurik coalition was in power, Croatian workers, whose salary was drastically reduced and material rights were cut, and when he was already talking about the unemployed, just to remind him that in 2002 and 2003, the basis for changing the right to register the unemployed in the Employment Office was deleted by 148 thousand 448 unemployed. Then you were a colleague of Cain's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57449	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Dragan Kovacevic corrects the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57450	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct the inaccuracy of fellow Caine, who, I guess, writes it to him, and in one breath, he blows that data away. So where you say the disaster is, everything falls so industrial production falls, so productivity falls, etc. That's not true. So industrial production, unfortunately, is dropping, but industrial productivity is growing in the first half of the year at 7%. Now if we know what goes into this productivity, so both more efficient and lower business costs, the introduction of new products and technologies, then we can conclude that perhaps our entrepreneurs have used this crisis as a chance, as a challenge, and have changed the way they operate, so in that positive sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57451	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired in 15 and 25 minutes for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We have a total of 62 potential debaters reported and we have five more clubs. So let's move on. It is next to the club HNS, HSU, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57452	I thank Mr. Vice-President and the distinguished few members of the government who are still left and who are still interested in listening to this parliamentary debate, about something called the budget rebalance on the agenda, so by trying to restore the balance or at least some balance between the income and the expenditure of the state, which the government and its parliamentary majority have on them, as well. But, of course, we've never had a balance before, so the balance between income and expenditure, since this government spent 90% of what it planned to spend all year through revenue in the first six months, so in this 2010. So in the first six months, they spent 90% of the deficit, which they themselves planned, or 8.6 billion kuna more than the government planned to collect. We have an even stronger balance before us, therefore, not to establish greater or slightly better balances, but to propose even stronger imbalances and disproportionateness between income and expenditure. In the original budget, the government planned to spend just over nine and a half billion kuna on what it collected in 2010. With this proposal sent by the government, the government says it plans to spend just over 14 billion kuna on what it will collect with revenue. So, of course, this is not the establishment of a balance between income and expenditure, but the establishment of an even greater imbalance and the government has sent us a proposal for a redistribution of the budget. The usual numbers show. The second thing we're discussing is something that the government and the government's representatives in the media have been speaking very loudly lately, and it's been said here in an explanation, which is that the budget is shrinking by about a billion and a half. If we look at the figures, it is obvious that the budget does not decrease by a billion and a half of this document, but plans to increase the budget by slightly less than 900 million, i.e. 892 million kuna. So what's this about? As information comes from the government and here at this pay phone is said to be decreasing by a billion and a half, and in the end it increases by 892 million. It's about the government calling it a reduction in the increase. So they were going to increase much more, so now they're not going to increase that much more, they're going to increase only by about 900 million kuna. So it's not a reduction, it's a very clear increase in the budget, and if you look at what it's about, in this reduction in the increase, you'll see a little more detail that this reduction in the increase is about unrealised projects. What is not planned to be financed are unrealised projects, projects for which no documentation is prepared, see in more detail those items relating to regional development, where the budget decreases by 169.3 million and you will see that almost all of those 169.3 million are actually failures. Where projects are planned, and now they won't be able to be realized, and then it's called reducing, of course by reducing the increase. Thirdly, from the government are constantly public and here from this pay phone today coming to absorb opposition and everyone else who is able to listen to it, and where would you reduce expenditure and who would you save on and where would you cut it? It's not a real question, but it says a lot about how the government thinks. It's not a real question first of course because if you have a parliamentary majority from which you can form a government, then it's your responsibility, so the government has to have its own policy and know. And secondly, it's not a real question because the real question is not where you'd cut it, but where and how you'd earn it to increase your income. It's about saving all the time. What we're gonna save if we don't make money. And this idea of saving something there could be done, while depreciating the economy and making no money is completely missed. So, if you were to ask anyone who you'd be doing, then not who you'd be cutting off, but how would you make more money? At this point, in the opinion of us from the club HNS and HSU, the only 2 possible sources of earnings or additional revenues for Croatia are the economy and European funds. As far as economies are concerned, in order to increase income in the economy, the economy needs to be strengthened, not weakened and collapsed, and not cramped by inequitableness. For example, in order to strengthen the economy, the government must ensure that legal, institutional and fiscal or tax conditions are ensured. One of those measures that has been said a lot was to reduce the duties each employer gives to the state per employee. This has been shown to increase the revenue of the budget. Proved and proven today's Minister Popioac said that in his absolutely every performance while he was headmaster of the HUP. Ever since he became a minister, we haven't heard a word of it, and I'm not talking about it to accidentally reduce giving to the economy per employee. A small economy and the turn of the unfavor are being destroyed and massively collapsing, see statistics, or go underground. In order to strengthen the economy from the budget, priorities and economic areas need to be visible, where the conditions for recovery of the whole economy are priorityd. So it must be visible what the country as a locomotive will begin to draw out of the crisis. I think it is also quite obvious from what the priorities of the EU economy and from the national framework programmes are that for Croatia at the moment these areas are energy, industry related to the environment, transport, tourism and regional development. These are the areas. If you look at it, don't say we don't propose which areas, but it doesn't take much wisdom and the EU says in these areas we will participate. In this proposal in all these areas, look at them well, this government plans either anything or difficult conditions of development. See, for example, the Ministry of Environment -88.8 kuna, regional development -169,3 kuna. In order to obtain funds from European funds as our possible second source where we have the possibility for every 15 kuna for state projects to buy 85 kuna, people who will be able to write quality projects that will qualify for funding from European funds should be educated. The design of projects should be paid. Those projects, I remind you, must be completed next year. For these projects, we need an indicative billion kuna in 2012 and 2013 to get about or have the opportunity to get around 25 billion kuna. You'll admit it's worth it. It pays to invest a billion kuna to get 25 billion in 2012 and 2013. But this proposal does not provide for funding for the preparation of these projects at local and regional level, and that is where it will be realised. The country-level framework programme is one thing, but the only thing where these projects can be realised is at local and regional level. In this document that is before us, there is no money to prepare projects. Every project should be paid to prepare, to get the permits. There's no money to prepare these projects at local and regional level, so let's get ready to try and take that money. Projects need people to make projects. They need people who know how to do that. We repeat in HNS and HSU, and I personally don't know how many times. We're repeating people, it's not about the election. For more than a year we repeat, please make a selection, we call it 100 people for 100 projects, but make a selection of 100 people, 150 people by the European Commission's criteria, educate them for 6 months to have people who can do the job. It was supposed to be done yesterday, but if we didn't yesterday, we could do it today. It's certainly better today than tomorrow or six months from now. It has nothing to do with who's in power or not in power, it's necessary for this country and trust me, everyone who participates locally or is in executive power will be blown to pieces by the fact that these people don't prepare or educate, and that's the way to get that money. In this budget, if you look at it, there is no provision for the education of these people to create these projects. They don't predict each other. I'm asking you to think about it. It really no matter what we think, you have to believe you'll win the election. I don't think you will, and you have to believe you'll win the election, so do it for yourself. Because without it, we really can't use those resources. The Minister of Finance and the Vice-President of this Government Mr. Schucker is going to Croatian TV and the Dnevnik plus the camera on the question, why the existing 4 billion kuna incentives in agriculture are still increasing by 600 million, answers, but it is only temporary, soon it will all be paid by the European Union. In such a situation, one can only hope that no one in the European Commission listens to it, or if the drought does not take it seriously. That's not true. This will not be paid by the European Union. Only projects qualified according to defined criteria will be able to obtain funding from the European Union. And that agriculture is primarily not in agriculture but mainly in regional development. And in this rebalancing, we cut regional development by 169.3 million kuna, where we should prepare projects. Where to save? Just a few examples. Capital investments, public-private partnerships, but not from the budget. Since this was regulated by law, no public-private partnership project has been launched. 5 billion transferred to local self-government units according to different political-party criteria. It's just, there's some criteria, just take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57453	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57454	I will, Mr. Vice President. Just take funding criteria from European funds and apply these same criteria to funding projects in local and regional self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57455	Finish the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57456	This budget, colleagues and colleagues and gentlemen ministers are irreparable. So it doesn't make sense because simply a different logic and the philosophy of the budget is needed by this one. This budget is Scarlett O'Hara's budget when it comes to problems and tasks, this government says, "I'll think about it tomorrow." HNS and HSU will not support this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57457	I'm asking you to stick to the prescribed time so I don't have to warn you. It's not pleasant. Now let's correct the incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Mrs. Pusic and I are correcting that incorrect quote, she said that for the HNS club, it is not the right question where to cut and how much to cut. And I'm saying that the HNS club, or the main economic strategist of the HNS, has said that in several of his last steps. That the fundamental and real issue for HNS is retaining the level of public expenditure, public expenditure, public spending in the Republic of Croatia is 100 billion kuna. Therefore, that is what Mr Kovacevic said several times in his remarks. Therefore, it is true that the HNS Club speaks one thing in the assembly and the other in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57459	Thank you. It is up to the esteemed representative Davor Huška, the correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Says colleague Pusic, a small economy is mass destruction. So I remind you of how many billions of kuna have been invested in the past 6.7 years through the Ministry of Economy in the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. And you just now look at the site of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the projects that are under way, which have been completed and how much funding is being placed in strengthening the competitiveness of the small economy in building entrepreneurship zones in units of local and regional self-government, in entrepreneurship of young beginners and persons with disabilities and all other projects. Another incorrect allegation, says a co-worker for withdrawing funds from pre-accession funds, needs people who know how to do it. People don't prepare or educate. I guarantee today that there are 500 people in Croatia who can write projects for European funds. Go ahead, you're talking 100 people for 100 projects. You're talking about 100 people. I guarantee you that today there are 500 educated people in Croatia, starting with my small town of Pakrac, where there are 10 people working and preparing projects for the European Union. Entrepreneurial centres, development agencies of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57461	Thank you. Please stick to the time so I don't have to warn you. Dear Representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57462	I'm the one who has to correct the inaccuracies of my colleague. They have obviously been promoted to educate people for years for European Union projects by both the ministry and various agencies and to receive funds from the European Union for the education of these institutes. So I'm really surprised that today she mentions give at least 100 people for some 100 projects, and then they'll learn how to prepare these projects so that they can be applied etc. So for many years several hundred, I think we can say that over a thousand people have been educated and know how to meet all the conditions and how to run European Union projects. So what you're saying is false.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57463	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Turk, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57464	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In short, the correction refers to the finding of a respected representative that other than people who are not educated, there is no means to do so. I must remind myself that there are more than 2 billion kuna in the budget for the various activities that are related to the European Union projects. But I will conclude that, in addition to direct funds in the position of the European Union both in the state budget, there are special positions in the budget of the county and cities that are related to separate projects which, as such and just project documentation, can be applied to the upcoming funds both these and those structural ones. And if that were the case, the example of my neighborhood and the city is exactly that one project preparation of over 43.44m euros. And in order for them to be realized, they must become certain assumptions. So there's money, there's it at different levels, and that realization is not only dependent on the ministry and people, but depends on all levels of government both at the state level and on the county and then on the local ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57465	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Kovacevic, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would like to correct the inaccuracy of colleague Pusic, who quoted Minister Suker as saying and his finding that these 600 million kuna increases in the budget for agriculture, that this will also be obtained from the European Union in the future. This is true, because the funds that we will receive from the Common European Agricultural Fund, which accounts for more than 40% of the European Union budget, are given in part for these horizontal support and for these projects in agriculture, but are also given for support in agriculture. That is right, they are given to support agriculture, otherwise it would absolutely make no sense to either set up a paying agency or to accredit it means the way the European Union asks for it when it is precisely through that agency that they would not receive support. I don't see anything going on here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57467	Thank you. ... Don't throw it away, don't throw it away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57468	Thank you very much. It is a completely incorrect and wrong approach presented by Mrs Pusic, who sees the way towards economic growth through the restructuring of certain items of the state budget. That's not the way. The state can only create conditions, not invest. It has to be done by the private sector. For this reason, the Economic Recovery Programme in the Republic of Croatia on page 10 makes it clear: the launch of a new investment cycle with economically measurable long-term effects can only be ensured with the maximum participation of the private sector. And that's important, it needs to be aware, not to create illusions that a state that with a very limited state budget can launch economic recovery and growth, anyone who has the elemental knowledge and understanding, who is at least by his education somewhat engineered and knows how to create a new product, would not be prone to such delusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57469	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57470	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Cosic...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57471	What article did he hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57472	The 209th article, my colleague Cosic corrected me in something I didn't say. Comrade Cosic, you don't think I as a liberal, I really am a liberal, you think the state should be an entrepreneur? Well, it's obvious that what I said about the state creating conditions...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57473	What's the injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57474	So I didn't say it invested. I said it was the state when it created the conditions. Don't be rude or say I said it, so I'm very happy to argue and stand behind what I say as it is known, even when you're all against it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] But I said that by creating conditions, the state has to prepare itself for what's coming to us, and we have a potential possibility that no one gives us money, but that we have projects that qualify for money. That's what we have to...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57475	Thank you. ... You can't, please... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your Honor! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please! You can't take your own word for it! What kind of behavior is that? ... You can't take your word for it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Vesna Pusic, it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you did not say what injured the Rules of Procedure was, you did not explain but responded to the correction of the incorrect assumption. Please don't do this anymore. ... You didn't do it right. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Let's move on with the corrections. The last one is representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57476	Thank you. Comrade Pusic, you have incorrectly said that 5 billion goes to local self-government units, I try to quote. It's not going 5 billion, it's going 2.2 billion, and it's going by the strict criteria of the units that need it, and it's mostly those municipalities and cities on special state care that really need help from the state budget. There is still a alignment for decentralised functions, and this is again for those cities and municipalities that have taken over the obligation to finance education, education, social services and who need help.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57477	Let's move on with the debate. It's the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Our debate is coming up. I'm glad it's constructive, almost tolerated, and it actually reminds me of the past three months when media spaces have been busy with this budget rebalance. Never in the past 20 budgets and 14 rebalancing is as much space given to one rebalancing as it is now, which is logical. Croatia is affected by the global crisis and the rebalancing is one of the elements of getting out of the crisis. It's not the only recipe, it's just one of the elements. We've had a lot of difficult situations, that's what I'm saying to my colleague Caine, who declares a third country disaster. I would remind him, '90s, '91, '92, war aggression on Croatia, a 50% decline in gross domestic product. I'd remind him, Storm '95. when we had to rebalance a billion marks in three months for mobilising 200 thousand persons working, etc. So this is not the deepest crisis or the biggest disaster, and this budget rebalance is a good way to go to the next two budgets to get out of the crisis and join those countries that are on the way out. Why the budget rebalance? Because simply because from a crisis you can't do without it. There is no European Union country that has not rebalanced the budget this year because it has failed everyone's income because the crisis of the banking financial system from America has become a reality sector. The fall of the real sector does not fill the budget, and all countries, not only Croatia, have high social and other expenditures, and therefore there is imbalance and therefore everyone is rebalancing. Why the rebalancing as an extraordinary session of the Parliament, they asked their colleagues. To have time for the next 4 months to act on it. 4 months final for this budget are crucial for next year's budget, and next year Croatia's exit from the crisis and therefore an extraordinary session. What we could hear so far in the public debate, even today, is a whole series of suggestions and questions why you didn't do it. Why didn't you change collective agreements when the government only wanted to change the recipe to extend the collective contract, the unions are looking for a referendum. Why didn't you cancel your vacation regress, the unions said we don't give a regress. Why not tax to banks, because the European Union has said wait, we are doing a European Union project for the tax of banks that will go into certain funds to prevent future financial crises, not to fill budget gaps. Why not a new tax, because they've been raised up against by employers. Why don't you cut the subsidies, 'cause the tractors would go out on the street. The government went between force and haribda and managed to pass. She managed to pass in a way to maintain social peace at the end of the global crisis in the Republic of Croatia. It wasn't easy, no one would give up anything. He said the other day, the former vice president of the economy, Nenad Porges, you can't treat the entire party with an empty pocket. And I would add not only because their pockets are empty, but because no one in the bar is going to give up swallowing. Everyone would like to moisturize their throats on the burden of the budget. It is a problem for Croatia, but it is also a problem for all European countries, and that is why everyone is going into rebalancing. There were suggestions that were inconclusive. The government has considered them. There were even public debates about them but they're inconclusive. There was a proposal to reduce the number of public service employees. Then we looked at EUROSTAT, so we saw that in Europe, in the European Union, it is of 19.4 employees in public services. It is 19.7 in Croatia. So, that objection is off, too. It was a big complaint why you didn't tax your capital gains. Tomorrow, we would tear down the economy at the most sensitive stage of its rise. Crobex on which some would like to give a tax on stock trade reached the bottom on July 4th of this year in 11 months minus 5.7%. Crobex 10 – 6.3%. Who would now be throwing a tax on the sale of shares? Then they say tax the dividend. Yeah, but then we're going to de-simulate what little investment we have because the one who's investing is counting on him to get a dividend because it's also his incentive to invest. There were tax proposals on the increase in stock values very dangerous. America has changed stock taxes three times in the last 10 years. Why is it dangerous? The stock is taxed when it grows its value, but only if it's sold by the owner. Of course he's gonna stop that sale. It's called log-in or stock-locking, which means stopping the stock market. And what it means in the final effect on the economy is not to speak. There have been proposals and the government has given them and some have realised to change the pension system of the biggest consumer. Health care is second in line, the biggest consumer of the budget. 17 billion are from the budget below contributing to retirement. Why the pension system needs to be changed and it will have to be not by rebalance but by consensus of all parties because Europe told us in 2050, and that's almost there. Over 65 years of age, 55% of employees will be employed in the overall workforce. So, those who retire today at 65 will be most employees. And therefore, criticism does not increase the age limit that the government has proposed is not justified. For example, Poland has proposed 67 years these days. And we're gonna have to. It's a matter of political consensus. What is justified criticism and the government has accepted them and is working to tax those who are rich. The fact is that in Croatia the system has not yet matured to tax those who really have wealth, but the prime minister and vice president of the government are preparing taxes on yachts, expensive cars, second and third and further properties. It doesn't work today. We have one of the richest people in Croatia. We're not going to mention a name out of courtesy that didn't pay taxes on his huge cottage and property because he reported it as a mountain house. I'm learning from him, so I just filed a request to the government that my cottage be declared a national park. However, it seems that Vice President Schooker does not accept that and that he will tax me. And I congratulate him, because whoever has it really needs to be taxed, even if they don't have a national park. What you should say about this budget is that it's a rebalance that kept us from sinking. Of course he's not revolutionary, of course he's just preparing for two budgets to follow. But the government made a very brave move. It has frozen the budget increase for the next two years, with next year's election year and I don't know a single Government in Europe more widely I haven't analyzed which has frozen for its election year an increase in budget, which means pay. It is a bold move, but unfortunately the only way for Croatia to get out of the crisis and to establish a balance of income and expenditure in the state budget. And thanks to that, we've got our heads above the water, and there's a great chance that we're gonna swim, not dive. What should we not sink? This rebalancing should be accepted precisely because it guarantees a budget balance over the next two critical years. The government's program should continue to be courageously implemented. The government went boldly and couldn't tell her she didn't have the courage. She cut wages 6%, pensions to officials and salaries 10%, reduced Croatian wartime wartime pensions by 10%. She abolished the payment of supplementary insurance to those categories in the budget. These are bold moves, but the only ones that allow the budget to survive and that next year we have a positive contribution to the gross social product. What should still be said here is that real insight into the situation is also needed to get out of the crisis. The economy is the law of merged vessels. Croatia can't swim until all our foreign and trade partners are out, so then everything we have to compare with them. That is why I always struggle to always say European with every bad indicator, and only to see that we are not bad at European average, but also because entrepreneurs are asking us to show confidence. Without confidence with the depression that the media and some political circles have imposed on this people, there is no way out of the crisis, and I will argue that. The government budget deficit is 4.2%. I already said in the European Union it's 6.6%. So it's not catastrophic and it's not catastrophic. What should be said is that Croatia's public debt is less than the average public debt compared to the EU's GDP, about certain countries not to speak at all. Well, when I say that, then I read in the paper, he said that he is better at living in Croatia than in Germany. No, because we have a weaker economy, we were more cautious than Germany, so we have a smaller budget deficit than Germany and a smaller ratio of total public debt compared to GDP. It just means that we were careful enough to be as rich as Germany tomorrow. The third thing that is necessary with this budget rebalancing is maintaining the entrepreneurial climate. A major investment problem is a bad business climate for investors. The other day I met a friend of an American who's a big investor. He invests in Dubai and all over the world and I ask him why you don't invest in Croatia. And he tells me what's wrong with you, so I'm reading your paper. We investors follow all the media in all the countries that are our candidates for investment. So if you don't believe in yourself, why should we? The capital is a coward. What are you talking about? I'm asking him. About this and lifts my cover on that day one diary with big letters of black Monday. He asks me if you know what black Monday is. I don't know. It's the darkest day in the history of the American economy. It was the day of October 19th 1987 when... dropped by minus 22.6%. [[You don't understand.]] It's the historic and most recent decline of that stock index in America. A terrible crisis followed. And now our newspaper is calling about today's budget rebalance, a black Monday with 25-centimeter letters. And do you really black Monday? I tried to convince him that it wasn't, but that it was a red diary, and he's looking through his red eyes black, but why is he looking black? Because he regrets that the government has not gone into conflict with either employees or pensioners or farmers or trade unions or employers in the pre-election year. And I cannot forgive this government, because this budget rebalance is socially and politically sensitive, it is compromiseable, and the compromise is still the foundation of democracy. However, such a title has long and extensive consequences, as my friend will long quote black Monday among his fellow investors, and the red diary would have to replace his red glasses if not for pink ones and that bar for objective ones. Black already has. And what to say in the end. We will support this rebalancing, because this rebalance is supported by every category that it determines fate. This rebalancing was not designed for red journalists, nor for communist columnists, it was not made this rebalancing even for the opposition, it was made for employees, workers. The trade unions supported it, all trade unions, this rebalancing was made for peasants, farmers, supported by farmers' associations, this rebalancing was made for entrepreneurs, supported by the Association of Entrepreneurs, this rebalancing was made for Croatia and will therefore be supported by the Croatian Democratic Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57479	We have a few corrections. Too late. The debate is closed, you cannot report for correction after the debate has been completed. Thank you. The first correction is the incorrect quote by the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57480	Dear fellow Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I am correcting the incorrect assumption that Mr. Andrija Hebrang said that the pension system is the biggest consumer of budget money, as if it were a burden. The pension system has the highest obligations the state has towards its citizens, which are based on contributions payments over the years and on certain special rights established by the laws adopted by this law. That can't and shouldn't be a burden. The second is a correction to the incorrect assumption that this government will tax the richest. Then I ask you why three months ago, the director of the company that we built, which in German property, increased from the same gross salary, the net salary of a thousand euros? Just answer me that, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57481	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Hebrang's. The first is where this rebalancing is quoted as a good way to make the next two budgets that Croatia will come out of the crisis. On the contrary. This call rebalancing is a no-return path, a path that does not guarantee leaving the crisis, but a further stagnation for the simple reason why it does not ensure economic growth, the creation of new jobs, new employment, which is the only way to increase wages and pensions, and thus social giving. And secondly, the second correction to the incorrect allegations, says Professor Hebrang, this is a rebalancing for Croatia. This is not a rebalancing for Croatia, this is a rebalancing for HDZ chairs and coalition partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57483	Thank you. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will correct the next incorrect quote this rebalancing is socially sensitive and compromised in the context of the pre-election year. So this is not a pre-election budget, but this is a post-election budget because all the solutions are left to the government that will come after the elections, and the current solutions are borrowing that will bring back those who are young children today and therefore this is the budget and this story, the story for small children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57485	And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57486	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, in an impeccable display of Mr. HDZ Club President, an incorrect allegation has been derailed, but I think it was a lapus because he certainly knows it, and that is that the parliamentary pensions have been reduced by... After all. [[You don't understand.]] It is true that parliamentary pensions have been reduced by 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57487	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. It's SDSS's turn, distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57488	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Hebrang, a colleague, said recently in a daily newspaper he won the title black Monday and characterised the paper as red. And I'm not sure that after this and this qualification that colleague Hebrang knows the colors well because it seems to me that it's more yellow than red, but on the side of that. The main topic in our debate before these parliamentary debates and before the parliamentary debate was to reduce whether or not to reduce public spending. This is a really important question, but a question that we face in almost every budget rebalance and in every budget debate. And this is also a matter of great importance for this government, as it was for the last government and as it will be for the future government. But that's not the only question. And it is absolutely certain that if we were to focus on reducing public spending, without being followed by other measures, measures that could accept what the reduction of public spending has as its consequences, so that we could not.../It is not understood. Croatian circumstances in the social and political sense are such that people could not accept it because there is simply no argument why they could accept it. The reduction in wages, the collection of salaries and pensions over the past few years has been, as we know, regular. The status of a working-dependence population and the status of employees when it comes to the legislative sphere, when it comes to legislative and labour security, is unfortunately very bad. And fortunately, there is an increase in awareness amongst employees and pensioners that this needs to be changed. Under such circumstances, a certain reduction in public spending that would once again be reduced to a working-dependent population regardless of whether it works, whether it is waiting for employment or waiting for retirement is no longer a real thing. Especially if this has not been followed by appropriate measures that would be taken by people who would face such consequences. And for that reason I understand this rebalancing especially in the segment of freezing wages and pensions as a draw line. As the drawbacks of the lines followed by the measures will this government, to what extent, be carried out by the next Government, to what extent? We'll see about that, of course, but underlining the lines after which we simply have to approach certain measures. We have over 40% of the budget and in the current sense that goes to pensions, goes to defenders, goes to intergenerational solidarity. This, in our not only economic circumstances, in the overall social circumstances is simply not realistic to endure. So in that sense, something needs to be done. We have a completely inefficient administration, and at the same time we have a massive administration. And there's no doubt that there's also a need to increase efficiency and that there's a need to reduce glamour. But how do you do it? So people will be sent home. With the current trend in unemployment, I do not believe that any government would carry out such a measure. Even one that would be stronger than the one where we're coalition partners. So we're in a kind of situation where it's not possible to reach out for sudden, firm and radical turns because otherwise I'm afraid we're going to crash very quickly. For this reason, the SDSS Club considers that this budget rebalance should be accepted, but at the same time it should be followed by at least 3 of the following measures or 3 of the following actions and as soon as possible. First of all, as regards the even distribution of the burden of a crisis that has been going on for a long time not only since we've declared or admitted that we have a crisis. Sectors and those who are members of this society are unevenly burdened by the crisis. I think it is necessary in this respect for the state to use its regulatory power, in order to improve as painlessly as possible the imbalance that exists between individual sectors. Some were angry when we mentioned the possibility of some kind of bank taxation. Some have threatened to do so. Of course, when threatened by workers, when threatened by peasants and threats are not taken enough. These threats should be taken into account by the Government because they are not taken by employers, but when it is necessary to see how they would, for example, be taken into account. banks and certain telecommunications companies, e.g. Mobile operators may participate in a joint agreement between the Government and them to provide funds that would not be spent to patch up budget gaps but spent to help those branches of the economy that need assistance to overcome the crisis then cannot be seen as an attack on banks. If we were to take just now an example of 4.5 billion before taxing 6 leading banks in the Republic of Croatia and 3.5 billion 2 leading mobile operators before tax, if we took 20% of the profits for them only once, it would not be a particular loss or a particular burden. But it would provide a billion and 600 million kunas that could be used for what counterpart Pusic said or what is agreed between bankers and state and employers, or businesses. Therefore, for the preservation of jobs and for the creation of new jobs. We can, of course, say, and that would have an impact on that, so the interest would be increased, so that would happen, but the state in that sense has to stop working only on the level of flag bowing and the state has to stop functioning only on the level of national anniversary marking. The State must reach out to regulatory mechanisms. Because it is absolutely certain that in certain sectors the freedom to collect certain costs is such that the state is obliged to protect those concerned. At the same time that business entities have no risk in the world? Only with us are certain business entities with no risk but they have made sure of all possible business risks. It needs to be changed and the state is there for that. It's not a free market, it's a monopoly. And it needs to be changed. Another thing I'd like to say, which I was also talking about about adopting this budget. There's still too much state money going the wrong way. Still through public companies, through public institutions, still through health care, through social education in different directions, resources should not be drained. It still happens what happened in the shipbuilding or still happens in shipbuilding, which is that as operators stand well and that those who work there and basic companies do not work. That's how hospitals fail. But I don't believe that the failing suppliers of any medication, any food, any other supplies for the hospitals. The state has a duty to find a way to change that. I can't say that I know what sum it is, but the logic of things shows that it's happening, because it can't be that doctors and hospitals fail to secure what they should provide with that amount of money. And the state is in this regard obliged and this government is obliged to find stronger mechanisms by the end of the term of office, stronger than those spoken by the Prime Minister when speaking about centralised control of public procurement, if necessary. Because it's easy to do business, I have to say this, it's easy to be successful in the sphere of trade and even in the area of agriculture if the state gives you incentives to import, if the state gives you an incentive to buy, if the state gives you an incentive to export. So if all of this is ensured by the state, then where is my business responsibility? My business responsibility is just to take as much as possible from the state and take as much as possible from the consumer. It's my art. Well, then we sitting here in this House, and we're responsible for state policy, we must finally say the state needs to start working. And you need to see where it's rational that it's happening, and where it's not rational that it's happening. And then the issue of incentives in agriculture and for large users of incentives and for small users of incentives will get their full dimension. I am for that. Because unfortunately, we're still a country that imports more than it produces. It's not much. At the end of the third thing that I think is of particular importance are investments. The Prime Minister also spoke of it, both the vice president and the minister spoke of it, others who went out for a pay phone. We need to find a way to free some of our own investment funds. What I was saying about banks and what I was saying about telecommunication mobile operators is one of the possible measures. But we need to find ways to secure investors in the world and how to attract investors to come to Croatia. Unfortunately, our focus is only on certain countries and parts of the world. It's not good in that sense. Investors can be found in different parts of the world. There is money for investment in different parts of the world in countries that record growth. But, of course, we don't use our diplomacy or our business, and we don't use it diplomaticly for that kind of thing. This was tried in his own time by former President Mesic, now trying to do President Josipovic, but it is a job that must be done by the government. ... I have no doubt that you are working and I have no doubt that you work very hard, but when it comes to the inflows of investment in our country, unfortunately they are not nearly as much as your efforts to do so. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What's there to change? Are local blockades of any political nature, party, either administrative or state-level? Is our blindness only to one segment of the economy and one segment of the states in Europe or to extend it to a series of segments? I'm not sure, but that's what the debate has to be about. And without the fresh flow of money and without the opening of investments in areas that Croatia can make competitive any debate on budget rebalancing, any debate on how much we will reduce public spending or not reduce public spending will look like we are biting our own tail. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57489	Thank you. Right on time. It is the Club of National Minorities, the Honorable Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The national minority club will not be long to explain its position on this budget rebalance. For this to assess the validity of the economic and financial validity of this budget, the National Minority Club simply has no instruments nor claims nor can it claim to have them. However, the National Minority Club has another characteristic. It has a characteristic that it is composed of MPs who have been elected directly from their constituents, from their base. And no matter how many voters there are, somewhere more, somewhere there are fewer of them, I can assure you and guarantee you that the Club of National Minorities and that the representatives of national minorities are precisely keeping an account and know how their electoral body breathes, because they have directly chosen. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that what we... Mr. Minister of the People and the Ministers of the People is that the people are terrified. I said we don't have the instruments to assess the depth of this crisis. I wonder, does the government have instruments to assess the depths of this crisis? We are day and night our voters and people in Croatia regardless of nationality are day and night under the influence of newspapers which are always likely because they increase their circulation and media in general which convince them that this crisis is insurmountable, that it is long, that disaster is just around the corner. If one thing were certain to be the task of this government, it would be to tell the people whether it's true, whether it's true or not, that's the situation. Because we just have to believe every day what the media says. The government's responsibility is to inform the public about the depth of the crisis. And we MPs don't know what the depth of the crisis is either. We want to believe that the government knows the depth of the crisis and we want to be able to tell people, our voters and our citizens, we want to be able to tell them whether they are right or have no reason to be afraid. It's fundamental, because you know and when the crisis is deep then it becomes and much deeper if people feel fear of it because fear, and here we talk about things that I know more than economies, I'm talking about psychology, I'm talking about sociology, because people in that case feel not only helpless but they narrow down all their possibilities. When their abilities and abilities are narrowed down, when their mind becomes narrower than fear, there is simply no more development and economists can make as much effort as they want. So one of the government's tasks should be certain to tell the people exactly where we are, what it takes to get out of that crisis, even if it's very painful and how many years it's going to take to get us out of that crisis. These are fundamental questions to which every man who pays taxes and also those who don't pay taxes and who every living man, every man who lives in Croatia should have the right to answer and not get these answers. If we MPs don't know them, neither do they, and they probably don't even know the journalists who write about it from day to day. But that's what their newspaper owners live on because that's how more newspapers are sold. Newspapers sell when you write negatively, we all know that, but when it's written positively. When I said that and it was up to me to say it because people tell me where we are, I've never gotten as many questions as I do now where we are, what we should do, whether tomorrow we fail or not, people ask that. Because people ask me that, then I have to know how to answer them. So please, Mr. Ministers and Madam Prime Minister, please respond to the people, please tell them where we are, how deep the crisis is and how long it will take us to get out of this. You need to know that. If you don't know, take experts from the world who will be able to assess it. Because I'm saying, we don't have instruments, I want to believe the government has them. I want to believe. When I said that, we're just talking about two specific things about national minorities and human rights and this budget. I can't and can't vote, me and the National Minority Club can't not vote for this budget because it simply doesn't cut funds for all areas concerning the financing of the needs of national minorities and all areas concerning narrow human rights and we will, of course, vote for it. It's a normal thing to worry about one budget, one budget rebalance that would have all the reasons to cut funds and increase them. Normally, we are concerned and normally worried about what the budget will be in the 11th month, or the 12th month, what the budget will be for next year. We're concerned because it's simply not possible that something like that is happening, of course if the reasons are not known, and the reasons are already said here on several sides. So the budget is increasing, and it should be reduced because it needs to get out of the crisis. It's increasing by further borrowing. Which means the borrowing, how much will it reduce our standard of living, as Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor said in one of our meetings that we had, how much longer we're going to have to grepst, peel close to the bone, how much we're actually going to have to, how many years we're going to have to deal with another crisis like that. And let's not forget that this crisis didn't come to some kind of well-being right now. Since I've known about myself, and I'm many years old, there's always been a crisis in this country. We all remember the stabilisation program, the program to get out of this situation or that situation during communism, the '90s, after 2000, the Monetary Fund. There's always been a crisis here, so we're used to it, but we just want to know if we're used to it enough and whether we know the scale of this crisis ahead of us. Because everyone's talking, and I don't know if it's true, but everyone's saying that one bad year in tourism, one bad year, could happen in Europe, one bad year in tourism, and we'll literally eat grass in Croatia. If it's going to be a disastrously bad year in tourism, yes. If it's going to be a catastrophic bad year in tourism, we're going to eat grass next year. So if there's grass, yes. ... Yes, Mr. Hebrang. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So we're going to vote for this budget rebalance, but we'd like to finally know where we are. And when I said that, I said I'd be brief, I don't want to wait for the light, in the end the only positive thing. This is the first time in the history of a new and democratic Croatia to make the budget right, with an absolute majority of votes. I can't but express my satisfaction in front of one such fact that makes us more European and as far as we're concerned, it gives us some new opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57491	Thank you. I now inform the honourable representative Boro Grubisic has applied on behalf of the HDSSB club. Although he was in favour, although he was warned by the President of the Parliament that he could not get a word because the HDSSB club no longer exists because there are no at least three members and therefore cannot get a word. Two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First is Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57492	Mr. Vice President. I do not have the words to say this, but I cannot walk away from saying, under Article 211 of the Rules of Procedure, that this is the implementation of force and lawlessness, contrary to the Law on the selection of parliamentary representatives and against the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the HDSSB has elected three mandates with the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Neither you nor the Mandate-Immunity Commission nor the HDZ can put an end to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57493	Your Honor, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57494	Article 211, what I am entitled to as a member of the HDSSB Club, you do not allow me to do so. You, your party and everyone else in the clan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57495	Your Honor, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you've brought out now. The second is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57496	Mr. Chairman, you have injured a series of articles of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I'll only name one. This is Article 10. This article clearly states on what conditions and at which point the term of office shall cease. I'll only read you one passport. When the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term of office are met under the provisions of the law and of this Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary term of office shall cease on the date on which the decision on the termination of the term of office has been taken by the Parliament. As far as I know, and I believe I know very well, our colleague from Branimir Glavas Club did not deny this House his mandate, i.e. he has not made an official decision on the termination of his term of office. So that's the only move you can make as the ruling option in this House to stop him from validating his mandate. You've never done that before. You just don't have any legal or logical explanations...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57497	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57498	...to deny him his rights and us as a HDSB club the right to discuss at this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57499	Thank you. The mandate-immunity commission has found that the powerful verdict came into force on 22.6., 2.6, and thus such a powerful verdict, which is more than 6 months, means that it ends its term of office. No corrections and no more injuries because this is all alone. You can't hurt an injury. This is an explanation. Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. Dear Representative Josip Friščić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57500	I'm sorry, I called again for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57501	You can't get a breach of the Rules of Procedure on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I've answered you...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57502	So I have the right to react by breaking the Rules of Procedure to your nebulous explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57503	You can't do the same thing twice. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Friščić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57504	You can't ignore me like that. I would ask you to consume my rights from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57505	Your Honor, you've been given...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57506	You can't keep working until you let me consume or get me out of here. You won't be working any further. But look, don't do this. You can't. I'm not your fool. I know so much about my rights. You won't work any further until you let me say what I want to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57507	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57508	You can't work on the Honorable Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57509	Your Honor, you've been given the right to say a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I gave it to you then.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57510	I know what my rights are, obviously, and you know it, but you don't want to admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57511	Your Honor, I beg you to listen!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57512	I listened to you, and you have to listen to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57513	Listen a little bit, and behind that, I gave you an explanation. You can't tell the Rules of Procedure that you're in violation of the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57514	Oh, I can. I have a right to...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57515	Then it could take 300 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57516	With your explanation, you're also violating the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57517	Your Honor, I'm going to step down from the rules you have one more time to say what you mean by violation of the Rules of Procedure which article, which item and behind this we go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57518	You broke already I said article number 10. It says here, I'll literally read it now. "The representative shall be suspended from his term of office if he is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of imprisonment for more than 6 months." The fact is that on June 2nd, the verdict became a power of power, but the executive station is only an item number two when the terms of the law and this Rules of Procedure meet the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term. The parliamentary term shall end on the day when the decision to terminate the term of office has been reached by the Assembly. So it becomes executive the moment the Parliament makes that decision. I don't know who the lawyers have interpreted this for you. I don't believe they don't know. I'd rather say it's malicious and that you're making it impossible for our club to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57519	Your Honor, sir, thank you very much. You're out of time. I'm staying at the argument I gave before and we're moving on with the debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Josip Friščić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57520	I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57521	You have no right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57522	I'm right! I can't get over this rape of yours. I will not allow you to continue until you return to the framework of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57523	Your Honor, you can't interfere with the Parliament because you're starting...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57524	Call security and get me kicked out. I'm not gonna let you keep working.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57525	Please! No one's gonna kick you out, you're gonna go out alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57526	I won't go out alone, I won't let you work any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57527	Then you stand well here but we continue the debate and you must allow the HSS club to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57528	I won't let you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57529	Then I declare a break of ten minutes for a man to change his mind. Thank you very much. A short break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57530	Please continue your discussion. Here you go, sir. I gave my word to the Vice-President of the Parliament and to Mr. Josip Fristic, that on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, he would continue his debate. [[I'm sorry, I have a breach of the Rules of Procedure and still.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57531	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fristice, I apologize. It may not be your fault, but I can't let this go any further. That's what I said earlier. Please resolve this, return this session to legal frameworks and you can continue to work./... But I'm not in charge of that. ... I've been given my word from the President of the Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57532	I gave my word to Mr. Fristic. Here you go. Mr. Representative, don't disturb the session of the Parliament. I'm really sorry, I don't want to be, but obviously there's no other way to fight for... [[Intruder: I did not give Mr Fristic the word, I give Mr Boris Grubisic.]] And the rights of your club and... [[You don't understand.]] /... [[You don't understand.]] For disturbing the Assembly session, I give you a warning. Here you go, Mr. Frisce. Thank you very much, but you haven't solved anything. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57533	You haven't solved anything with a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57534	I've solved it, I don't know what we have to solve here, and the agenda point is the budget debate. The agenda was proposed to representatives of the Croatian Parliament, they had the right to comment, no one came forward, nor challenged this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for agenda points for the extraordinary meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and I see no reason why they would open a new point that was not adopted as a item of the agenda. Therefore, you are obstructing the work of the Croatian Parliament and for this reason I have given you a warning about the distraction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57535	Thank you. I would ask you to give... It's according to the Rules of Procedure and the law. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57536	Please, Mr. Fristice, continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57537	I suggest you do. ... I present our position, opinions and reflections regarding budget rebalancing. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57538	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57539	Surely I do not deny your right to fight for your opinions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57540	I apologize to you just to say something. The issue of Mr. Glavas' parliamentary mandate has been raised here against the established agenda. Mr. Glavas' parliamentary mandate ended on the force of the law 2.6 this year. The fact that there is something additional written in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament cannot be above the law. The law prescribed exactly when a representative loses his mandate and says exactly when he is legally sentenced to a sentence that is higher than 6 months. Since I received a letter from your party to discuss the candidate, that is, your proposal for the replacement of Mr. Glavas, that means that your party and I have it in writing knows that there is no representative in the Croatian Assembly and proposes to appoint the one who will be, or to replace the gentleman, I think... Of course, I referred to it, and I told your president yesterday that I immediately referred it to the Mandate-Immunity Commission that discussed it and informed me, as other representatives in the Croatian Parliament have been informed. [[You don't understand.]] After that, we wait for the agenda item of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to be placed on the agenda. The agenda will be proposed and the item will be included at the regular session, as this is an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament at the request of the Government does not include other points of the agenda, nor the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Therefore, for us on the basis of the Mandate-Immunity Commission which has unanimously decided your party has no club in the Croatian Parliament, because you have two MPs for now, but you will have a third. Nothing is limited to anyone, and I think we should continue the session normally, in accordance with the accepted agenda that we have unanimously here, because there was no objection accepted. And I see no reason why you are now obstructing here, and you want to create a situation to show that the Croatian Parliament does not act in accordance with its obligations and responsibilities. So, the Mandate-Immunity Commission concluded that 2.6 of this year, the term of office was suspended by law to represent Branimir Glavas. We don't need to discuss it, because it's the law I've solved. And it follows that we must continue the session according to the agenda we adopted, and therefore I have asked the gentleman who asked for a word on behalf of the club, Mr Josip Fristic, to take his word and to take part in the debate on the first item of the agenda on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57541	Mr. President, I don't think I'm obstructing this session of the Croatian Parliament at all, I think you are. If the law and the Rules of Procedure make it clear, it can also be seen by a man who is not a lawyer, so I think your legal advisors are... so you interpreted the Rules of Procedure and the law that way, you could have made an effort to sit here today, Dr. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Buric, rather than stalling us deliberately to leave us in... space to deny our word today. [[You don't understand.]] Not only have we been denied the word, but at 17 I tried to call a press conference in the premises of the Croatian Parliament, we are responsible for the club not to give us the hall. Is that the same in the law and in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament? I don't know how she... where this is the behaviour of the Croatian Democratic Community which you want to achieve with this. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57542	The secretary isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57543	We'll find... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57544	The secretary did not allow a press conference on behalf of the club, but did not prohibit an individual representative from holding any press conference.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57545	Do you see how you.../The speaker isn't involved, you don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57546	So if you two want to have 2 conferences from that party, you can do it, the secretary will let you hold it. Otherwise...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57547	I won't have any since I was forced in this way to meet the Croatian public what you are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57548	Otherwise, you don't have two MPs in that former club who, when the mandate of the next representative is verified, you'll have your own club. You do not have it so far, and if you did not have it, the report of the mandate-immunity commission was not discussed at all, nor did anyone, nor did you, have suggested. So I don't know what you're talking about right now and what this situation is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57549	I'm just asking you to choose to give our club a word. Dr. Crescent. Boro Grubisic will speak on behalf of the club on this agenda point. We have this right in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. If you don't allow it, I'm afraid I can't allow you to continue the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57550	I am not asking you to approve the continuation of the session because I am now giving you a second warning for obstructing the work of the Croatian Parliament. And now I'm asking Mr. Fristic again to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57551	You can't, call security to get me out. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57552	This can be considered a "Job patience" that we suffer here in the Croatian Assembly...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57553	And the way I put up with you, you can't even say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57554	I now give you a reminder by taking away your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57555	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57556	I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57557	So you've been given a warning, and then you've been warned by taking away your words. ... Well, the word I took, but me and taking it on his own is forbidden. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, Mr. Frisce, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57558	Mr. President... to be ashamed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the '71 thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57559	What did he say? I have no idea. The representative shall be given a strict step away from the session of the Assembly when he has violated the order so much with his conduct and has violated the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the work of the sitting that further holding of the session has been called into question. And I estimate that this is exactly the stage when further execution is at stake, that is, the work of this session, and once again I ask you to sit down so as not to interrupt the session, because then I will be forced to say a third step. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57560	I'm sorry, I don't think I'm interrupting the session. I think she's being distracted by you. And you act on force, just like you've been doing everything for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57561	I'm asking Agent Drmic to come to his senses. That he opened the agenda point without any right to open the agenda. That this Parliament did not accept this item of the agenda – Report of the mandate-immunity commission and that you are obstructing the work of the Croatian Parliament by your actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57562	I didn't open any points, Mr. President. Give Mr. Grubisic a word on behalf of the club. That's what I'm looking for, about this point you're discussing. Am I asking a lot? Only what the Law and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament belong to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57563	Mr. Agent Ivana Drmić, I give you a strict measure of distance from the Parliament session because you have violated the order so much with your conduct and violated the provisions of this Rules of Procedure and despite several warnings, it continues to distance you from this agenda point until it is completed. Of course, when this item of the agenda is finished you can take part in the work of the Croatian Parliament again. And I ask the Croatian Parliament's watch to implement this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57564	Mr. President, I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do I have the right to breach the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57565	I'm asking the Guard, because he obviously wants to, but since he already wants to, despite my and the vice president of the Capricorns...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57566	You can be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57567	He will not go out differently and interfere with the work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57568	... And you may be ashamed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The older you get, the worse you get.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57569	When Mr. Drmic comes out of this assembly then he hurts his Rules of Procedure, Mr. Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57570	Thank you, Mr. President, even though it's not for thank you, nor is it time for me to say thank you. Or you, by the way. 211 or 209 also, you sly, recklessly and rudely use your pay phone... Here's your culture, HDZ. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Let me, just let me say a little bit, let me talk. So, you're the solution...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57571	What business article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57572	I said, but you're not listening. ... Here, they're turning off the microphone again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, you... , the Croatian public, and the Croatian people have determined that the HDSSB has 3 representatives both at an extraordinary session and at a regular session. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, he's got his own club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57573	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57574	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57575	Thank you. Now listen to what I'm about to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57576	Because it's a shame you're working and sad. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57577	What you are doing in the Parliament has nothing to do with the work of the Croatian Parliament and with the Rules of Procedure because the material on the report of the mandate-immunity committee is as well as any other material sent to the boxes of representatives of the Croatian Parliament and it was in the boxes this morning. Whether or not it is, it's not the agenda point that you're looking for. So we continue to work, and now I ask Mr Fristic to finally, with my apology, because we have interrupted him several times and interrupted him to continue his debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57578	Mr. Baby Boy gave us the people... Not you people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You won't take it from us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57579	No one's gonna take that away from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57580	Okay, I guess now third happiness. Once again, Mr. President of the Parliament, Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Surely, the theme of this extraordinary session is the point of the agenda of budget rebalancing in recent months, and we can say with the right to say for a few months, it has raised the interests that those who attach to the budget and set their rights to the budget and work in certain institutions of resolutions are bound by their existence, but also by those who contribute to filling that budget. And we listened and we followed thanks to the media debate and professions, and unions, and political parties, and associations, and I think that's good. There was a variety of thinking and thinking. That's what I need. In the end, the government is the coalition, coalition partners are the ones who should have proposed certain solutions to this House. It is certain that these solutions are being observed and we must observe the basis of the parameters and everything that determines and makes the budget and the functioning of the entire state and society, on the one hand, but also what is happening in our environment, and what moves some other wolf, which they resort to and I think that this final solution proposal for amending and supplementing the budget actually provides answers to many of these questions. On the one hand, he has been addressing the issue that dominates individual groups of citizens of the country, for several months now, and his colleague Radin has been talking about it, removing fear, because not one. In his debate in certain stands, the debater sent messages, followed by the crash, followed by the flood, followed by the collapse, followed by the disaster. We're sending a message when it comes to pensioners, they're not happy to have today, but we're sending a message is going to be retirement. Last year at the 6th month when we started rebalancing, we were sending a message, and it was due by the end of the year. We send a message to those who receive salaries or whose receipts are linked to the budget, there will be wages. There won't be an increase. It's nicer to say there's going to be an increase, there's going to be growth, there's going to be more, but we're talking about getting paid. We send a message to those and confirm what the government is after all, and we here in the Parliament they proposed, and we adopted about the stabilisation programme and the crisis exit programme, related to the workload, because the increase in income is certainly always in the first thought whether to additionally burden the work. No, the work isn't loaded. On the contrary, by amending the regulation that we have brought about income tax, the labour price has been reduced, and by abolishing crisis taxes, we have created the possibility that those who live out of it to make something easier to live on, that their net incomes will be higher. Likewise, at the stage of making this proposal as serious coalition partners, we have considered and observed in what way and whether all economic operators are equally carrying a burden, because they are the ones on whose back they carry the burden of the crisis. We have determined that this is not evenly distributed yet, but we have agreed that this remains one of the issues for the period ahead. Because we will not consider these opportunities and making promises in the long term, because everyone else, all other countries, will do the same for us and for the future, perhaps already in the budgeting process. I'm not running away from that, we talked to the public, and I think that the financial sector's contribution to the crisis must be more important. When we consider the size of each of the budget positions and the potential for their reduction, then it is certainly necessary to highlight these billions and a half kuna that has been reduced in individual positions is very important. But also, and I haven't heard of a debate so far that someone has objected not to provide funds for the payment of existing pensions, for all its users, so that we don't provide funding for maternity benefits, that we don't provide funds for what is through agreements and agreements that have all been welcomed by individual budget users, that we don't provide funding at the end of the referendum because it's a democratic right, but it's also the means to mitigate basic disasters, primarily in the area of agriculture, because so far, every government has done so. We had it both in 2003 and in 2007 and this year, because it simply has to, because it is a condition that those who work in that factory under the clear sky survive a production year and can continue their production cycle. And today the question was asked here, couldn't it have been otherwise? We at HSS as coalition partners are aware that it could, but I must say right now, we wouldn't support it. It could have been in the way that budgets were made in this country in some years, because we know that health care at the health minister will cost between 23.24 billion. We could have planned 19. In this area, it must be the easiest way to make a bypass for a few billion, because just unbutton the electricity, water, gas, not deliver the drugs or food to hospitals, there are few who have the courage not to do so. And in the end, they know it's going to be paid, but with a delay. We could have interrupted that process which, by the 6th and 7th months respectively, created the conditions for public enterprises where the state is a 100% owner and smells its obligations in 60 days, to move it back to 90 or 120 days. But what would they do to others in that chain? It would be a delay, it would be a chance for some numbers to be lower here, but then we could talk and certainly talk about unrealistic balances, about unrealistic budgets, about something we know in advance that will be spent, but we didn't show it. We didn't opt for this way, we opted for real showing everything in numbers, in months on payments, and I think that's why we can rightly say that we're going to support this kind of rebalancing, because he's sending his message, he's worth another four months for this year, but he's sending his behavior message for the next two years. It also sends its message while we are convinced that we will enter the European Union because today it is also spoken here and certain that borrowing has its own price. It's safe and we can't do that, your Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Schuker can be as capable as they want in the same terms on the financial market as Croatia and Slovenia can't get credit, not because we're not as good as we are, but because we're not officially part of the community in which they are today, and tomorrow, when we enter, it's safe to cut costs in that position. And finally, do we see where that exit is, where those solutions are, where there are shifts, where that light has to shine, and I welcome that government decision, the prime minister didn't even say the effort not to collect the current knowing that there would be and there would be light. I'm sure that's what the numbers are talking about. They speak of tourism figures, of tourism as a branch that almost a quarter of our social product, and I don't know, here in one debate it was said that we had to imagine that it would be without tourism. We slightly older can imagine it because it was a basic password in the '70s because we didn't have tourism when it came to work, the only effects of tourism were not in Croatia but ended somewhere else, and there is no day D and I believe that no one in this House is fooled when we say today has stopped the crisis. There's just a branch going out by branch and we see that certain branches have found their way out with the help of the government, with the help of budget funds. For example, I'll just take the woodworking industry. The crisis hit them first because they were among the most exposed external markets. 70% of their production was exported, but the latest indicators and talks I had with them were their orders 386%, so almost four times the same period last year, which is a segment that includes tens of thousands of employees with basic production. That's the message, that's what it says, that without increased isolation, which I believe we will define, there are visions, there are solutions, there are ways and there are ways for real balance in 2011, 2012, and that what some are announcing to break, break, break up, break up, because it's certainly and it's the principle in which someone always profites, but certainly total citizens and the country doesn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57581	Thank you. We've got corrections. Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57582	Dear Vice President Frišcic spoke about the messages and said that the government is sending a positive message to the public when it says we will pay our pension, we will pay the salary. I think it's an incorrect quote because the government is sending two different messages. The first is the message we have difficulty paying pensions and salaries, and the second is God forbid that such a message and that the government wants to send a message, the government is asking for gratitude for payment, regular payment of pensions and salaries. You know, these messages are not sent by any European government to its citizens with the exception of Greece, and there is no normal situation in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57583	We have another correction. Mr. Ivica Pancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57584	I'd like to thank you, Mr. President. So, says Mr. Friscic at the stage of drawing up this proposal, all the subjects in society are equally burdened by the crisis. That's wrong, because I don't see those who took part in the privatisation robberies of the '90s as well as ministers, state secretaries from this government who abused money from the state budget carrying some kind of burden, but most of the citizens do. And I would ask you, Mr Fristy, that you do not justify your own ignorance, incompetence and lack of courage by the wrong examples as you did yesterday at the board meeting. And I would ask you when you speak of ministers from the last coalition government to first look at these current ministers and to remember that from 2000 to 2003 you were, among other things, a member of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57585	Please, mentioning ministers and some governments does not fall under the correct assumption because no one has mentioned it. Mr. Frishcic has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57586	Mr. President, I think that an esteemed colleague, I don't think, I'm convinced that a respected colleague has injured the Rules of Procedure because he has applied to correct my allegations, and he has commented on my debate at a session of the Assembly committee he has not attended, and at that session I have not mentioned a single word of him, but for the sake of the public, because he has potentiated it, only in one sentence. At that time, it was said that a lot could be pinched if false defenders and disabled ones were reassessed. I said that we wouldn't have time to put the assistant minister on the table again so he'd be believed to have no legs. Those were my words. That's what I mentioned to you, Minister, and I didn't think of you. Namely, there was a picture of that man when he came in, took off his braces and said, "Look, I don't have a leg." /Applause./ [[- Insect: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57587	So, I myself thought that it was beyond the framework of correcting the incorrect allegations. And now I give my word to Mrs. Milanka Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57588	I will beg you, Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club, to give us a break of 15 minutes to discuss a further way of working on the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57589	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break of 15 minutes and we'll continue at 17 and 45 exactly. Ladies and gentlemen, the break is over and we're moving on with the session. We move to an individual debate on this agenda point and it is up to Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57591	Today I listened carefully to the explanation of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, which they explained, but I carefully read to them the reasoning of the rebalancing proposal proposed by the Government to the Croatian Parliament. And believe me, I have not been able to figure out the reasons for their content of the proposal why only 18 days before the start of the regular fall session of the Assembly was due to attend an extraordinary session. I do not dispute the legitimacy of the law or the public procedure for calling a session. But I really don't understand why. There's no Minister Shucker. Here he comes, always at the last minute. [[I'm here.]] The minister always at the last moment when I want... Of course, of course. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why the budget rebalancing instead of the 2009 item was not achieved for the first six months of this year. In fact, you will probably all agree with me that it would be much easier for us to follow both the revenue and the expenditure side of the proposed changes in state finances if we saw what was achieved in the first half. Now we're just in a situation where we have to trust the figures that are entered and as far as tax revenues are concerned, as far as expenditure is concerned, not only in certain positions, but in general. Two months before that, Mrs Kosor and some ministers announced major changes in rebalancing, large deep and severe cuts and made great expectations out of the people in Croatia. Some feared these cuts, some simply had a neutral stance, but wanted to know what would happen, and employers, or owners of capital that we in Croatia shouldn't call capitalists, so they had their demands and expectations. They said they were only moderately satisfied with the proposed changes in state finances. However, what has come to Parliament I must say that I believe the credibility of the entire government and the ruling coalition has been lost. So not only the HDZ but also the coalition partners because they created such an atmosphere that monitored the preparation of this state rebalancing simply confirmed that no important changes were made in the election years. Mrs. Kosor said this document is on the verge of social balance. She said she was opening up citizens' optimism and that one of the reasons for such conditions in state finances was the decline in personal consumption and the increase in savings. But all of these reasons we have been instructed here as evidence against the introduction of all taxes during the past and early of this calendar year, especially the taxation of salaries by 2 and 4%, the freezing of pensions, and I have argued that by reducing the purchasing power of the population will actually result in a reduction in the income of state finances. In an explanation of the rebalancing budget, Minister Schuker wrote that at the position of other assets revenues by 594 million, resulting in INA paying its commitments this year in 2009. I'm guessing it's about INA's tax liabilities to the state of that 594 million. Didn't I hear the Minister's question? It states in this document the revenue from the assets of 594.6 million paid during 2010, and the commitment from 2009. INA. INA said the state owes more than a billion kuna taxes. If that's true, then the payment of the full claim to INA could have avoided this incentive. But you're not gonna tell me that the debt was just $594 million. Someone from the ruling coalition said that these billions and a half kuna savings countries will be made on office material, so if that's true, then tell us I've prepared a single aid package of office paper, 2 pens and 2 registries to send to the ministry that stock of office material to save even more money and help with that debalancing. Some experts claimed that in Croatia we must reach an agreement as many as they have called it fiscal capacity. I would say the budgetary capacity of the Republic of Croatia. If the 2010 budget with 120 billion expenditure is also the basis for the budget in the following year, is it therefore your answer to all those who said that the fiscal capacity of Croatia is 120 billion kuna. I think that's the important thing to know, so 120 billion in this government's view is this budgetary or fiscal capacity of the Republic of Croatia. For 87 billion and 400 million kuna, Croatian taxpayers rescheduled banks in Croatia, and then different governments and the same banks sold for 5.3 billion kuna and thus Croatia lost financial sovereignty. And now these same banks set the conditions for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian entrepreneurs and citizens under which conditions the bank will lend state, development of entrepreneurship and economy, and citizens. With 4 billion kunas in last year and something that these same banks do not have in the members of the European Union, which is a foreign exchange clause on loans. Allowing foreign banks in Croatia, introducing a foreign exchange clause, with mortgage loans and disposing of citizens of this country and their entire family from houses and apartments if they cannot repay credit, banks in Croatia operate without any risk. They are the only ones who do not bear any risk in Croatia. What is good, and I must commend it is the move of the recapitalisation of the Croatian Post Bank, because if it is proof that finally and in power it is important that Croatia has its strong national bank, then it should certainly be supported. Whenever taxes were introduced to the poor, workers, pensioners, last year, within 48 hours they were proposed, voted and implemented. When a debate on taxation of capital gains, dividends, the introduction of property taxes was tried this year, studio analyses were said to work, that we must be careful not to scare investors, some are already writing and talking about the anti-enterprise climate in Croatia. How when a tax is to be struck by a poor woman within two days can, when it should be taken by those who have earned it on extra profits, suddenly we must be extremely careful. Minister, is it true that in Croatia there are currently 20 billion unpaid contributions to pension, health and tax combined? If you don't tell me how much it is. They say 20. Is it true that 150,000 workers work on black unreported workers? Is it true that 330 thousand workers are registered on minimum wage, and receives below the table a higher salary, which is also tax evasion. It's about 4 billion assets that the state doesn't realize, where the state is wrong. No, we need to be very careful and not create an anti-enterprise climate in a country where capitalists yachts, planes, fairies buy not in their own name, but in their own company. Now allegedly, apartments in Zagreb started shopping for companies to avoid paying taxes. And finally, Minister, why didn't you introduce a proposal, or an increase in gas charges before the tourist season, so that at least a little bit of that money to patch up the budget gaps... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57592	Finish it, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57593	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for extending my hearing for two and a half seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57594	Okay. Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57595	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Lesar, at the end of your presentation, you said what I wanted to replicate. I'm interested, and the minister certainly knows how many unpaid liabilities, which are companies, or prolonged liabilities, and you're talking about 20 billion, and I think there's a lot more of them, and for the record, it's well known or it's known which companies are either prolonged or not to say nothing about their obligations to the Ministry of Finance, or the Tax Administration. On the other hand, Mr. Lesar, one tax administration in Slavonski Brod pays 70,000 euros a month or 300 thousand kuna, and you're talking about saving office paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57596	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57597	There's more, but given the time Mr. Baby and your patience, I won't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57598	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57599	So I am also interested in how many tax obligations are earned, pension and health contributions are not paid. We can't hear that information from either the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister's. And, fellow Boro, I was just quoting one member of the ruling coalition, so it's not my original, but you can't see we can't get an answer as to why this rebalance of the state budget must be held at an extraordinary session. So now I'm asking the final question, is it possible that this session today and Monday was called only because September 11th HDZ has its congress, so the president of the HDZ also wanted to attend the congress... come up with a broken-down financial problem? [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57600	Thank you. You know more than we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57601	Well, it's not 11 away.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57602	Thank you very much. Let's move on. After the reduction of the applicants, I must inform you, however, that there are 28 representatives left to discuss for this point. Just enough so we can concentrate on time. It's Mr. Representative Goran Maric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57603	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, members of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57605	When someone wants to express their views and their views on the budget, and especially on budget rebalancing, many factors affect it. It also affects the level of expertise and the degree of education and the character of the person and the experience, sex and age, but it seems to me that political commitment and political function are the most affected. But to be realistic, objective and systematic, the problem requires a different approach. And Croatia needs more than ever a view of reality, a view of economic reality. Today's budget actually mirrored the Croatian economy. He is also the result of everything the Croatian economy has given in recent years. And the Croatian economy has been in a major imbalance since the 1990s. The imbalance began from the real sector, and most of all with the early retirement of employees turned into imbalances in the budget. I'd like to remind you that in the '90s there were 655 thousand pensioners, '95, 856, and today, a million, 187 thousand. 531 thousand pensioners are more today than in the '90s. At the same time, the number of employees fell. Retirements for pensions in '95 were 8 billion and 300 million kuna, and today 34 billion kuna. All this points to imbalances in the real sector. And how much imbalance today has shown its consequences best shows the example that banks are placing more and more positions on the reservation, that it is the very fact that 2% of citizens who have not been able to repay loans have increased to 10%, and that this is precisely the additional reservation of the first indicator and the new future imbalances. Every entrepreneur knows that in the real sector there is no profit in the account, profit and loss without a balanced balance. And the budget is nothing more than an account for the gain and loss of the aggregate balance sheet of the Croatian economy. And we all know that the balance sheet has a left and right side, that it has the asset and the passive, that it has the property and the means. We all know that both on the balance sheet and on the economy and on the budget can be seen on the left and right, but there is no Croatian left and right economy and there is no left and right budget. The budget is national and it's the only way to observe it. And it's logical after all these imbalances that have turned into budget imbalances that we are facing budget rebalance today because we have to take measures that will suit the current situation and the circumstances. It is not an attack on banks if it is said that credit conditions must change, it is not an attack on banks if they are considering a specific tax or on an active or otherwise active because it is unacceptable that during the worst economic crisis of the bank, telecommunications and one cigarette factory with family companies they earn more than 50% of the total profits of the Croatian economy. This also points to imbalances in the economic real sector. And I believe there will be a model, an optimal model, which will put banks in the right place. And the right place for banks is that they are the generator of economic activity. The banks are the generator of true economies. They're the blood flow of the economy. The economy without them can't survive, there's no banks without the economy, there's no economy without banks, and there's no budget without banks and economies. These 3 institutions need to function and can only survive by acting under the law of the merged vessels. But at this time, it seems that banks and individual sectors are not functioning but are insulating and adopting privileged conditions of rejuvenation. Only increased credit activity can come out of the crisis and GDP can be increased. Unfortunately, in Croatia, there is an absurd situation. If the banks had never been more liquid, the banking system was never more stable, there was never a higher demand for money, never a higher demand for credit ratings, and never a lower level of credit activity. Croatian business banks have the lowest level of credit activity throughout Europe. This is due to high interest on savings and deposits. A few times bigger than in Europe, while in the same countries, banks range from 0.5% to 1% of deposits are between 6% and 7%, and of course it determines the conditions of credit ratings. Then what's going on? That those who have money earn, and those who need it or cannot repay loans if they have already received loans due to high interest rates or do not take on new investments, for new activities because under these conditions it is impossible to function. So far, all banks have solved their problems by transferring all the burden and all that cost to already approved loans, increasing interest rates to those who had already received loans. And that's exactly what it is that shows that the number of citizens has increased from 2 to 10% that they cannot repay loans due to increased interest and the economic crisis. But it also happened to economic operators. Only economic activity, greater economic activity, and can only be achieved at lower interest rates and higher credit activity of business banks can achieve our economic objectives. Regardless of the many perverse attitudes, regardless of the extremely burdensome time we are in, and the economic difficulties in which Croatia is found, I am a great optimist. I am optimistic because the potential of economic development has not been destroyed, which has not destroyed the potential of economic growth and economic activity. I am optimistic because I can safely say that we are not in front of bankruptcy, nor will we go bankrupt, nor will we end up as Greece. We just need to continue with changes that will eliminate undesirable phenomena and that will change the models of unwanted behaviour both in the economy and in other segments. The banks are those on which the future of the Croatian economy rests. And it was never more of a need and never more of a regret that we don't have national banks today who would be held accountable by society. But we still have the Croatian Post Bank and the Croatian Bank, and I believe that in future recapitalisation we will strengthen these banks, that it will contribute to the Croatian economy and economic development. Of course I'll support the budget rebalance. Of course, I'm not happy that we have to be in additional debt, but it would be much more unfortunate for many to be with lower wages, to be with lower pensions, to take away social and pension fees, and that children cannot go to school for strikes, and to have events happening on the streets like in Greece. We certainly can't let that happen, nor will it happen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57606	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57607	Mr. Maric, Mr. Vice President. I always remember the words of my colleague from the HDZ Club that he had won for the last 8 years in the Republic of Croatia exactly those entities he spoke about, so banks, telecommunications and another 222 billion kuna. We talked and we read before this rebalancing was here to tax the so-called. capital gains, to reduce interest rates to banks or impose tax profits and banks, but there is no fear and no way to achieve such a possibility. Clearly, I would call this budget rebalancing by your presentation as you said quite objectively, "Keep the water while the masters leave," and the masters should leave or Mr. Shucker will leave, re-emerge abroad for a new assignment. Isn't that right, Mr. Shuker? 14, 15 billion kunas, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57608	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57609	Dear Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to say a few words about this year's rebalancing, and I'm going to start in this preparation for the debate and I found an article that was published somewhere out there on 18. 11. In 2009. In one of our business lists where I was a journalist's associate, the title "The deficit could grow to 14 billion kuna". So, I would not now boast of my prognostic abilities, but I would like to say that indeed this situation that we have today has been predictable. That's it. She was predictable. So, ten months ago. Why? Of course, with one questionnaire standing next to that thesis, and this questionnaire says, unless, in fact, all those measures that were recorded a few months later are taken amongst other things, so not all that I would write down, but one good part of the measures is recorded in the economic recovery programme. And indeed, if all these structural adjustment measures and fiscal consolidation were slightly dynamically more quickly implemented, that figure would probably not have reached that 14 billion. That's what this is about. And we could hear that today in several discussions, even on the side of the position, and even in this final debate of fellow Maric. I must say that I am satisfied perhaps more than ever with the debate of Minister Shucker, who has come very close today in his debate of the thesis which is here and the SDP which has spoken in public for the last 10 days. All the time we've been trying to say, the cost side of the budget is at this point a problem. The expenditure side of the budget is a short-term problem. But our medium-term problem is the income side of the budget. And that's exactly what these figures are all about, that we've been thinking in a similar way, so I've prepared those exact figures in the introduction, which is that the revenues from the 2008 budget have dropped over 8 billion kuna, and unfortunately, in the same time, expenditure has been growing somewhere around 4 billion kuna. The expenditure at least didn't have to grow, we had to make some savings already in this time, run some reforms already last year, when we were still wondering if we were in crisis, if we weren't in crisis, etc. However, it is the revenue side that suffered from the crisis. And we are actually in a situation today to think about which proactive measures we can launch the economy, we can start new employment and we can strengthen or improve the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Why am I stressing on these three components? Because when you look at it, we've talked a lot about the scale side, but when you look at the revenue side, then you know that the gross of these incomes makes VAT, contributes socially, so VAT that is related to consumption and GDP growth, social contributions directly related to the number of employees, or unemployed. And the third thing is an efficient economy that is measured by profit among other things. Our profit tax fell greatly in revenue because the efficiency of the economy collapsed and the profit already last year was almost 30% less than in the previous 2008 and this clearly shows where the problems of this country are. Therefore, we expect from the government and we appeal to everything we have said both these days and for months and for months and for what we really think is still missing, it is a very explicit pro-active approach to fostering economic recovery and growth. A little more concrete and a little simpler and clearer I would say in the structure of the measures that could be taken in this regard. We in the SDP have spoken very much these days which measures could be. And that we'd be simpler right now. We said come on, let's try in this situation with the banking sector, with high interest, let's try in any way to run or better say only to strengthen the financing of companies. I know that in a crisis it's very difficult, I know that liquidity is bad and that it's a major restriction on self-financing. However, there are mechanisms that can in any case support and help boost the self-financing of the company. We gave an idea and now I will look back on these tax measures, including what counterpart Goran Maric was talking about. Why, therefore, can I say briefly and look back, at least two reasons why we are satisfied with the final outcome of this rebalancing proposal, but I will say of course and which we are not satisfied with. We are pleased that a large group of Croatian citizens are from different layers, from different institutions are on the same side with us in seeking not to touch the salaries, pensions and social contributions of the most vulnerable groups. And the second reason we're satisfied, he didn't pass that tax on banking activity. We have made it clear that as many experts, economists and people as analysts, there is one positive side to that tax, which is that it would currently allow for the recovery of budget gaps, but there are at least 10 reasons why not to introduce that tax at this point. And we clearly said believe us, banks would do anything to ensure that the burden of such a tax that is not small because it would have reached over 50% of the profits of the banking sector, would have shifted that burden to interest, which means the people in charge, the companies in charge and the state alone, which in fact became the biggest debtor in the structure of the new placements of these same banks. Not to mention all those dangers, the transfer of capital from our market to some other people who are not taxed. I won't repeat that it's incomparable to a bank tax model announced in Germany, France or the UK or already introduced in Sweden, so it's completely two different things, but I'm going to say something else. In these and such conditions, there are no colleagues here, Jurcic, but he has beautifully defined it...... I'm sorry, it's here. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Ljubo said that nicely when it comes to the tax system. Taxes have two very important functions, he listed three, and I'll highlight two. One is redistributive, the other is allocative. Thinking about any new tax in Croatia can't be thinking about how much the budget will be filled and the budget gaps patched up. The tax must carry out its redistributive function, which means making the tax system fairer and having to carry out its allocate function in the sense that the burden shifts to those inactive, mobilising capital, mobilizing property to those areas or to those people or to those companies and to those other entities who want to activate that same capital, using for their own good and general good in fact Croatian economies and all the effects that can be expected from it. That's why we talked and now I want to make it clear because several times it's been repeated, we're not advocates of capital gains, shares and bonds. No, that's the last thing on our list of possible new tax forms. We have said something else, give people, the burden on work today is over 50% through taxes and contributions, and on the other hand we have a profit tax 20% and no other capital tax and profit and income from capital in all the countries around us, I have made a very clear analysis about it, there are such types of taxes and the harmonisation of our system itself would allow for greater fairness and evener tax burden schedules in these areas. And at the same time, these taxes have to be a penalization for all of us saying which profits are derived from the company and spent on luxury vehicles, buying some kind of fourth and fifth apartments, etc. and immobilize capital. So, from them, that tax burden should be transferred to those who are willing to reinvest and not only release them from the extra tax...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57610	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57611	It's about giving them extra tax breaks. This is an area of action that I hope with one global recovery can further contribute to the recovery of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57612	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57613	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. For me, the personal proposal to amend and supplement the budget provided by the Government at the moment, in this economic situation, in this social situation in Croatia represents the art of possible. Knowing the situation in the Croatian economy, knowing the situation in the public and real sector, taking care of the standard of Croatian citizens could not have been more serious about the expenditures of the state budget, without causing social breakdowns, so as not to cause problems clearly in the functioning of the entire Croatian society. It is impossible to talk today about the need for major reforms and procedures on the spending side of the state budget, and knowing how much such activities the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done in the last year. Today, from the presentation of the President of the Croatian Government, and also from the presentation of the Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the Minister of Finance, which has been largely delivered in the light of changes and additions to the state budget, it is evident that the measures implemented in the last year saved some 3.5 billion kuna in the positions of the state budget, not counting on a billion and 500 million kuna, as the budget in its positions saved some ministries. Namely, after reducing the salaries of state and public officials by 6% over the past year, after the reduction of government officials' salaries by 15%, after reducing the salaries of judicial officials by 10% or after reducing the pensions of parliamentarians by 20%, after the cancellation of free textbooks etc. etc. It was simply no longer possible for these positions to further cut costs without questioning the standard of Croatian citizens. Therefore, I think it is quite clear among all the political parties in Croatia that further reduction in public spending and in the state budget is not possible and that what I said at first is really possible in the given frameworks in which the state budget is being adopted. In addition to these numerous measures of rationalisation and savings in the state budget, however, it should be said that the government is going further with further measures, which are in the wake of the realisation and implementation of the economic recovery programme. In fact, I think it will come very soon to the Assembly and other measures such as the abolition of certain agencies, the Office of State Administration, the Institute, etc. which will further reduce costs in the state budget. Then, at the same time, a number of other measures were taken, such as the unification of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia, the ban on employment, which will certainly lead to a reduction in the number of employees in the state administration, given that a number of civil servants and tenants are going to retire. And it is clear that this employment ban does not apply to all those necessary employees, officials who are therefore required in the process of joining the European Union. Furthermore, in addition to these measures that took place in the state administration, a number of measures should be said at the same time to highlight a series of measures taken by the government in public enterprises. Already today, the president of the Croatian Peasants' Party has said more than once today when he stressed that important measure of public business planning, and when we know that last year, around two billion kunas were owed by public companies, that today, practically, public companies are not obliged to do so and that the electricity system in Croatia has made it possible to avoid an increase in electricity in 2010. It is clear that, thanks to these measures, the reduction in the mass of salaries in public enterprises, the reduction of compensation to management members and all other austerity measures implemented in public enterprises, that this certainly has contributed to an increase in the profitability of public enterprises. In addition, when I mention public companies, I would like to point out that it is in the basic budget itself, and this is also visible in this budget rebalancing that the transfers towards public enterprises have been reduced in the first place towards the Croatian Railways, and certainly the transfers to the Adriatic have been reduced. Therefore, according to public undertakings which are financed to a significant extent by the state budget. And after all these measures, I repeat, there is still a possibility within the ministry that additional savings could be saved over, like, a billion and 500 million kuna. But all of this was not enough and it was important to say, all of this was not enough not to reduce the total expenditure in the state budget, but, despite all that I said, there was still an increase in the expenditure of the state budget by around 900 million kuna, i.e. 892 million kuna. What we need to allocate from these funds that increase the cost side of the state budget then it is certainly an increase in pension expenditure. In that sense, I think we should also welcome the proposal for a pension insurance law now proposed to the Croatian Parliament, which additionally pensions early retirement. Because it seems to me that only in this year will there be over 60,000 pensioners leaving early retirement. It is clear that this situation in the Republic of Croatia that speaks of a 1.29 employee having one pensioner makes an unsustainable Croatian pension system and according to certain data, the Croatian pension system would not be sustainable even then that all unemployed in the Republic of Croatia are employed and should still be compensated from the state pension budget somewhere around ten billion kuna. According to certain data, the Croatian pension system would only be fully sustainable if instead of a million and 500,000 employees in the Republic of Croatia, around 2 and a half million employees, who would then clearly make their retirement system in the Republic of Croatia a sustainable pension system. What I agree with all those in the debate today is the fact, so we are aware that there is no further reduction in public spending in Croatia and that the only thing that can be done is to increase revenues, but not to increase revenues by introducing new taxes but primarily by increasing revenues in a way that enters a new investment cycle. We heard today from the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister when he said that unfortunately this investment cycle can no longer be launched in the Republic of Croatia by relying on public debt and that is what we must be aware of and the biggest activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the coming year, or rather should already be directed to open new private capital-based investments, which will enable investment in those activities which will therefore be the fastest able to fertilise, i.e. by new means which will contribute to a better collection of revenues in the state budget. If these are investments in energy, are they investments in tourism. In any case, it is those investments which, with the support of the Croatian government, can in the fastest way achieve this multiplier effect that the funds can be realised as soon as possible in the state budget. So in that sense, clearly, after all that is said today, I want to say that I will definitely support this budget for the reasons that at this point I want to repeat it differently neither at expenditure positions nor at income positions could do any better.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57614	Thank you. We also have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57615	Dear counterpart Bačić, I am correcting your inaccuracies which say that pension system expenditures would still be 10 billion in the budget if everyone who is unemployed and employed. So look, if you take a little care of expenses, pension expenses, then you'll see that even now you have 10 billion pension expenditures that do not rest on contributions paid by pensioners over the years, but rather those are budget commitments under special laws. That's 8 billion, almost 8 billion defenders and everyone else. I know it's all going from one register to Mr. Secretary, but you need to distinguish, that's what you have to distinguish. Secondly, 400 thousand new employees and 200 others who have not been reported would make a significant contribution to their contributions to the sustainability of the pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57616	Thank you. We are moving forward with an individual debate, and it is up to the distinguished representative Željka Antunović, vice president of the Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Reflecting on the last days of the state, on optimism or pessimism, pleasure or dissatisfaction, praise or criticism, I have remembered, and you will probably all remember how they've always taught us, no matter where we go to school, how we live in a beautiful country, in a rich country, in a country with a lot of different potentials, not just natural wealth, not just the inherited cultural historical heritage, but also hardworking, smart people, people who know how to create, people who in many places around the world have great results and great successes and that we're all proud of. By listening to today's opening, opening arguments of this budget rebalance, but at the same time to the real situation in the Republic of Croatia, I can conclude that of these treasures and of all the potentials that we have we have not achieved, God knows what. We didn't capitalize, what we could, what we needed. Then the question arises, what's the problem? What's going on here? Are these some kind of black forces, are they some sort of conspiracy of the international community that are hostile to Croatia, or is the problem within us? I belong to those who see clearly and loudly from this pay phone in their own, but also on behalf of everyone else admits that people in Croatia are dissatisfied, that those living well are also dissatisfied because they think that because of the effort or capital invested, they could live better. Even more dissatisfied are those who can barely survive, and the most dissatisfied are those who have no job, those who have no perspective for their children, those who simply sit and wait for their country to solve something. This morning, it seemed to me that this budget rebalance, as the Prime Minister told me, should restore optimism to the citizens, and imagine for what reason. Because we didn't cut your salary, because we didn't take your social transfers, because we're not gonna deny you the unemployment benefits, because when you're out of work, we're gonna make sure you get those 500, 900 or how many kunas they belong to. I don't think such an approach can bring optimism back to the citizens. Optimism can bring back to citizens an approach that began to arise from these three debates after what was happening this morning, and which is causing harm to the political authorities at the moment, and also to the political opposition, because it doesn't lead to anything, because it leads to destruction, because it leads to the creation of the impression that we are not dealing with anything other than the preservation of power or the struggle for power. These three discussions that are now coming begin to indicate that there is a consensus, that it is possible to reach a consensus on the situation. Of course, we will never reach a consensus on how this situation occurred, how there were 500 thousand pensioners who happened. We're not gonna make a deal about how we got to this kind of external debt or something. We won't agree on whether this foreign debt was spent on liquid consumption or to say in some family whether our daughter or my daughter who makes five or seven thousand kunas was in debt for 15 thousand kunas to buy Luis Witton's bag, Gucci's dress, to move around in a classy society, and in that way maybe she got some references and some better positions, social positions. If we're these external debts we've created, against which I have nothing, because if you don't have your own resources initially, then you're going to borrow, invest in something, pay back that debt and create a new value that you're going to invest again. But if we're going to buy, the painting of Louis Whitton's purse, if we're going to throw ourselves at shoes, if we're going to spend more than we've earned, then our perspective is nothing. Then our potentials will never be expressed to you. And it's true that the minister can't and we'd get up first on this side if you tried to cut wages, pensions and social benefits. But if I were a minister in this government, I would seriously wonder what we've been doing these six years when we've brought the state budget that 87% of the state budget is being spent on wages, pensions and social contributions. So is this the only budget task that must be the instrument of one policy? I will not waste my time and repeat what my colleague, Greek, said earlier. Revenues are a problem. I mentioned it this morning in the correction of the quote. Incomes that can be realised again on the right and in the wrong way can be increased as the state budget has increased, not from economic growth or from an entirely economic growth but from price increases, from tax hikes, from the introduction of some new quasi-taxes, etc. Of course, it is a short-term measure that will ensure that you buy the optimism of your voters, but within a very short time frame. In the longer term or in the medium term, the government will be brought into a situation as this government has put it into a situation that it is really in front of the wall and that any rationalisation means that any savings is actually the elimination of what is the fundamental existence of a large number of our citizens. So where do you get less pensions than 2,200 kuna? So where are you going to pay less than 5,600 kuna? So who'd even think of such a thing going down? The right of a government that not only thinks but works, which has long come up with a responsible policy, must know what measures will encourage development. For starters, I will limit myself or in my debate I will limit myself to what the Prime Minister also mentioned in her opening presentation, as regards rationalising and raising the efficiency of public services and state administrations. She said a lot of us did it, you can't see the results right away. You could certainly see a lot of results not right away, because you're not in power for a year, you're in power second term. It's the last part of the second term. And still our craftsmen work black because they can't work and pay taxes because, for example, they do not have a valid permit for an object in which they perform crafts. Still renters who rent now and grow tourism, rent their apartments, rooms, and entire hotels, cannot legalize and pay taxes because they do not have a valid license. I'm talking about the efficiency of public service, I'm talking about, these are banal and drastic examples. There are countless examples like that. If we can't cut the costs, the expenses you've made, which you've done irresponsiblely, not all of them, but much of them, you've kept political power, and that was more important to you. You've raised your budget through GDP growth, you've made countless mistakes consciously or unconsciously, and now you're in front of the wall. Of course, we won't let you put people in a worse social position now or ever. But we will ask of you, we will insist on it, we will ask for a consensus on it, but you must also accept the fact that you have participated in creating the problems that Croatia is dealing with today and will deal with tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57618	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would repeat that sentence that someone before me, I think Mr. Bacic said about this rebalancing, about changing and supplementing the budget that is actually the art of possible. Indeed, it is the art of opportunity. And what the Prime Minister said is extremely important, the art of possible, but in a way that protects all layers of Croatian society from cutting wages, not cutting pensions, not cutting social rights, maternity benefits and meeting the obligations that Croatia has. So, first of all, this budget rebalancing proposal has occurred. But to demystify a little question of the height of the deficit. So let's say once again, what's the deficit? So the deficit of 4.2% relative to and compared to other countries in the environment is significantly smaller, significantly smaller. More than twice as much as most EU members. More than twice as small. Three times smaller than the English budget deficit, three times smaller. So one and a half times smaller than the Slovenian deficit. 6% in Slovenia, 6% Slovakia, 6% of the Czech Republic, France 8.3% of the deficit in the state budget of France whose economy is of course immensely stronger than Croatia and of course that's the thing to talk about. But when we talk about the budget deficit, let's just say that Croatia was 5 years or 6 years ago. When you left power, you left 6.3% of the deficit. Or, specifically, $12.7 billion. 12.7 billion kuna! What difference does it make from these 12.7 billion kunas and these 14.1 billion kunas today? How, then, was it good, desirable, possible and possible to serve, and today is not possible? Whose theory, that difference is huge when there's no difference. In general, when you look at the budget that was then, which was much smaller and weaker, it was a huge deficit of 6.3%, today it's 4.2%. So you had a much bigger deficit and you defended it the way you defended it. ... Yeah, you've had your growth rate, but the whole of Europe and the whole world are down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Exceptions are some states. There are still today, and they still do today. It started growing in the last quarter now, and it started growing a few months ago, and those countries that have a very strong developmental economy. Absolutely. So talking about the deficit and the level of deficits in the way you tried today is really completely inappropriate when you have in mind what you were doing and what you were doing 7, 8 years ago when you were in power. Furthermore, when it comes to banks and the banking sector, then it should be said that Croatia is in a significantly different position than the European countries were because the banking sector is the generator of the economic crisis. From America where it started in the banking sector to Europe where it also continued in the banking sector. And those countries, EU Member States only from their budgets and guarantees provided by the banking sector, so only in the EU with 4 000 billion euros. Four thousand billion euros. U.S.A. With two thousand billion dollars. The European countries are 4 000 billion euros. These are amounts that are almost inconceivable. And, of course, they introduced a tax to prevent further behavior similar to that that led to the crisis. Of course, they had to protect themselves, although the tax, of course, is only as it is in Germany a billion and a half euros, will mean nothing if the banks continue to behave. But there is still a higher issue in the air so that the SDP would do so if it were accidentally at the location of the HDZ government, or coalition authorities? So I think Croatia has very bright examples and very clear examples of how SDP would do it. Here is the first bright example of the City of Zagreb. The first bright example, a very clear example of how SDP manages a single budget that is an extremely important budget, which generates weaknesses throughout Croatian society. That's a quarter of Croatia. The SDP has brought in an inflatable, unrealistic budget for the city of Zagreb. And now that it is necessary to rebalance that budget, then the SDP is unable to rebalance the budget but is making a decision on financing. Would something like that happen at the state level? Of course you would. Well, it's a clear example of how SDP, what their responsibility is, and how it runs one of the most significant units of local self-government. It runs Croatia. Of course, the debts that are in Holding to reflect debts across the country, of course, that goes into total debt. And of course the debts of ZET and all other Holding and all that is important for Zagreb, which is under extremely high debt pressure, of course it reflects on the government debt, of course it generates new problems, of course it generates social problems in the city of Zagreb, etc. Here's a bright example, a very clear example of how SDP acts and has solutions. There's no solution. The SDP has no solution. Another example is the city of Rijeka. 130 million kuna is missing in the city budget of Rijeka. And if I didn't add up, it could go further into other examples. But we don't have to go far back. Here are the citizens of Croatia with a very clear example that the SDP is not capable and has no solution and does not know how to solve the problems the whole country faces. So this is a very clear example from the city of Zagreb, not to mention their internal problems, because we do not care. So we can absolutely say that the economic recovery measures that the Croatian government made a few months ago, that they gave the results by saving 3.4 billion kuna with this additional savings of a billion and a half that today through this rebalancing, through changes and additions to the state budget, will certainly be supported and adopted. That's going to mean here's nearly 5 billion kuna savings. Of course, everything the Prime Minister spoke of, and what was in some way new, was something that could not have been avoided, and it refers to as you yourself know of maternity benefits and to compensation for the damages of the natural disasters of 300 million kuna and to pension payments and to the referendum and everything that had already been spoken of. Here, I think it is unnecessary to waste time explaining, and it is only necessary to conclude that this is indeed a realistic proposal to amend and supplement which will be the basis and basis for the next two financial years and which will mean really stabilising the financial situation of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57620	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57621	Dear Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This budget rebalancing should have been the main leverage in the economic recovery programme. The pompous announcement has provided itself with the right to an extraordinary assembly session. We wanted to believe that the government finally understood the seriousness of the situation, but also our responsibility for the situation. However, it is now clear that it is one confectionary product, one of the rebalancing that we regularly get from a workshop of the main financial medium, which unfortunately creates exclusively tax tools for economic policy. Painful cuts were announced, so the VAT increase, and the taxing of the financial sector, were ideas as in the story. And that many ideas actually talk about the government having no strategy, not having a clear vision and improvising. Gradually, it gave up everything, giving in to all coalition partners, to employers, because it is still most important to remain in power. That's why this rebalance is not a compromise rebalancing, as the government calls it, but is a capitulative rebalancing. There is no power or political will for change. The prime minister obviously will not make hot potatoes any, let alone good salad, but will transfer even hotter potatoes or leave them to another government. Because a good potato salad takes courage and skill. And the economy will continue to moan under the burden of public spending, and unlike other European economies that record gradual economic growth in Croatia, there are no signs of recovery, GDP continues to show a decline, and poor results in the economy also confirm that the profit tax reduction in the national cash register shows this of 2 billion kuna. After a short seasonal halt of unemployment, unfortunately, jobs are shut down again, citizens remain jobless and the decline of standards is seen for reduced consumption, i.e. reduced VAT revenues by nearly 900 million kuna. And just this expectation that the economic recovery that is happening in our environment by the system of combined vessels will be shed at least minimally across our borders, that someone on the outside will do the work of the Croatian Government illusoryly, because our problem is long-term and extremely hard-core, it is a bad economic structure, because this government has not used the past time of twenty years, a time far cheaper and far-reaching capital to change that economic structure. A precious time has been lost, a step has been lost with other economies, and now we're going round and round, and we're falling further and further behind at ever lower levels. That is why such a rebalancing is, it does not foresee any change, which primarily does not foresee a reduction in public spending cannot be in function of economic recovery. The amount of the budget determines the strength of the economy. It is therefore the strength of the economy that determines the fiscal capacity of the state and the volume of public consumption. You cannot spend something that is not created, and Croatia has been spending over its opportunities for years, because this government has created a number of social groups that are completely dependent on the state budget with its own policies. And now a hostage or prisoner of such a policy, and now it's justified that the budget is mostly fixed and that it can't be cut anywhere. The government that created this problem simply isn't able to solve that knot with its own hands tied. Moreover, it has been forced and increased budget expenditure despite the fact that budget revenues are falling. It obviously doesn't matter to the government that the economy can't generate enough revenue to cover budget expenditures, because it has discovered one rescue solution, a deficit. She discovered that compared to some other countries, my predecessor spoke of it a little bit, our budget deficit is not so large and that it can be increased and the government did so in this rebalancing process, so she increased the deficit from 8 to 14 billion kuna. Indeed it is true, there are countries that have a greater deficit than us and a deficit in themselves and it is not a particular problem if it is in the function of improving production and preserving jobs because economic growth will enable the return of loaned credit funds. The problem is when the deficit covers consumption and social ineffectiveness, which is exactly what we do. We buy current social peace and satisfy coalition appetites, and no new value is created to repay debts, and these are indeed unproductively spent funds. Debts are increasing year after year and Croatian citizens are rightly afraid of every new success of our finance minister in borrowing. For interest payments this year alone, colleagues and colleagues, the government will allocate more than 6 billion kunas or 5% of the value of this year's budget. This is the amount that corresponds to the amount of funds needed to pay off all pensions in two months. Finally, I will remind you of the warning recently issued here in this assembly by the governor of the Croatian National Bank, so the first man of the institution to represent the last line of defence of the financial integrity of Croatia. So Mr Rohatinski said that the government must reduce consumption and avoid the need for new borrowing. If the announced government reforms and the defence of the course are missing, it will not make sense. And this rebalancing evidence is that the government has no political capacity for reforms that are difficult and which require great sacrifices, but therefore solve problems in the long term and open their perspective and therefore Croatian citizens rightly fear what this future has put on our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57622	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57623	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's this debate in the last half hour that she's entered, and a large part of the expertise has actually gone in one better or better direction in relation to it, and you're going to agree to a large part with me, for a good part of today's debate that we might also characterise as a political struggle, but one good part and as politics here in the council benches to try to get cheap or more expensive political points. Certainly, we are all looked through the eyes of the Croatian public and that a good part of our behaviour is not ultimately on the well-being and development of Croatia, and even in these circumstances, the framework of the political crisis in which we are. It is clear in the overall debate that has been delivered to the good part today that the expenditure frameworks have been pre-set both this year or the years that have come to this end, and on the other hand that the essence of the message is how to make certain steps in the context of possible income. Well, first of all, through the financial sector, right through the potential for the release of capital both in banks and also in the capital that is in the business sector and which should, in some ways, go into realisation at this time of crisis. I might say another dimension that we haven't talked about here today, we haven't made any sense, and here we are all public employees here, the question of how we, our personal behavior as parliamentary representatives, are contributing to getting out of the crisis. And when we look at the words that are said here today under the assessment of the state of disaster, disorder, my question to me, but also to all of us, what message we send here in Croatia and what message we send to the world because we know that the institutional framework, political stability and stability of a system is a good part and prerequisite for someone new investment. I will also say that very often I wonder what our political message is, and when we talk about the legitimacy of investment and how investors who have already invested or invested today look at our political struggles and the bickering, at the legitimacy of certain building and in-house permits issued by the legal authorities of this country, which we put on a certain test as politicians, and what kind of message we are just sending to potential investors. And very often we find ourselves in one tycunisation and tycoon gap in a negative context and context, believing that they have unfairly come to their money, and on the other hand we are eager for new investments, and certainly these investments can mostly come through the private sector and private investment. And the question is, then, where is our role and what are we as persons, so as parliamentarians, we did positively in that story, what will be published in the paper tomorrow, and what kind of message will be said exactly that way. From the position of the parliamentary representative, but also from the position of mayors of one city, city and region in which much investment was made both from the level of state and certain moves made, but they are part of the space of local self-government, so they can confirm that a large part of Croatia through the creation of business zones and other assumptions for development has come into a relatively good position back several years today through the crisis back year, year and a half and a half days, and investments have stopped. What do I want to say to these people? So, I reject the state of disaster, I find that the real setting for further development definitely exists, that there are assumptions that political, geostrategic, and this also confirms the situation in Croatian tourism and good investment in infrastructure that today resulted in a more high-quality shift in tourist visits compared to some European countries, and when I add the state of political instability or certain protests, we come to the conclusion that this unity at this time of crisis is the assumption of further development and our exit from the crisis as a country which, with all these advantages, definitely has a basis for further development. I'm going to start my debate with one thesis that I think is the essence of the whole situation that we're in today. The problem cannot be solved by the one that led to it, and the one who participated in today's situation when here, with all the efforts made by the ministry, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the coalition partners, we fail not to reduce public spending and the expenditure of the state budget, but we have even increased them by 900 million. And that's why I find it strange, I listen to the argument, I realize that HDZ is trying to create the impression that something has been saved, but there's a matter of logic, you can't save if the expenditures are higher. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. If the expenditures of 900 million kuna are higher, then there is no savings. There's only a higher cost. What we have reduced unfortunately is the revenue side, and the result is also the inaction of the past years, i.e. the cause of the problem that this government and HDZ have made with it at the helm. Let's see how these expenditures have grown over all these years. In 2004, when HDZ took responsibility for the management of Croatia, these expenditures were about 84 billion kuna. Almost 50% higher today than then. At the same time, budget revenues did not grow so fast, but on the contrary, the last two years have fallen and probably this year and last year will fall 8%. When we add it all together, it's going to be about 15 percent compared to 2004. And here we come to a fundamental problem, a disproportionate of what we have earned in relation to what we have spent. Of course, the most cost was raised in 2007, ahead of the elections. At that time, expenditure in the budget grew to about 13 billion kuna, only in one year. What is most painful is why, unfortunately today, Croatian citizens are watching this session with anxiety, with some way I would say fear of what will happen tomorrow, because there is no impression that it is well managed by this country and that we know where we are going. Look at how the 2009 budget was proposed. At the end of 2008 at the 12th month, the budget proposed told us that we would have revenues in 2009. 124 billion kuna. The projections for 2010 and 2011 were 131 and 140 billion kuna. Yes, yes, it's an official document the finance ministry gave in the 12th month of 2008. As if nothing was happening in the world, as if Croatia would not touch any problems, they told us that in 2010, we would have 131 billion kuna revenue in the budget. Is that a serious approach to work? Or perhaps at that time it was meant to present and simply what was not realistic to the Croatian public, and then, of course, in the 7th and 8th months, the budget rebalances followed, etc. This year at the 3rd month, in March when everyone was clear, here's the minister and I were on one show, I was saying that there would be expenditures 15 billion more than there would be revenues, that such a deficit would be yes. The minister brought some data from February and spoke no way. It'll be just like we planned. And it was clear to everyone at that point in Croatia that it was not real. Unfortunately for this reason, and in the way that public finances are managed, but the overall economic policy in Croatia has led to this situation. We mention countries that have greater deficits than we do. Well, then it's correct to say that all these countries in this year are recording growth rates. Why didn't you say so? ... It notes, of the 27 countries in the European Union, only 3 will not record the growth rate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's your latest data from EUROSTAT. We didn't say that. Croatia will fall 2% this year, and there is again our problem, the countries we want to compare with, and you have now compared us through the deficit rate recorded an economic downturn in the ninth year, in the tenth recovery and growth. In the ninth and tenth, we will record the decline, in the eleventh most likely stagnation, and only I believe after the change of government will it happen that Croatia will start with the rate of economic growth. ... Not in Zagreb, but in Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] And as for Zagreb, when you already asked me, and this was a moment ago commented by colleague Matušić, you do not know if you are aware that in Zagreb GDP per capita is the largest in Croatia, that Zagreb offers the highest quality utility services in Croatia, that it is. ... Yes, gentlemen, I don't know if you compared how you live in cities where HDZ is in power and how it compares in cities where SDP is in power. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Compare Virovitica, compare, here are some colleagues who were mayors or were mayors, compare these cities, and then come here and teach lessons, in Zagreb is the best quality of life. Unfortunately, right now, the SDP has no responsibility for the executive power in Zagreb, no responsibility, unless you know the mayor of the city of Zagreb better co-operated with you than with us, you know your former boss and Prime Minister Ivo Sanader very well co-operated, so you have admitted that yourself, but I say again in Zagreb, living 100 times better than in the cities you manage. Let's go back to the budget that is today and the topic of this debate. I said there is no savings, there is not enough work to be done, the situation that corresponds to this state budget is that in the coming years, even though Prime Minister Kosor's economic programme says there will be a rationalisation of public expenditure, there is no such thing, but today you are offering us a conclusion that these expenditures will remain the same for the next years. And as a result, this is a great contribution to what HDZ can help Croatia, and in other words, it means that we will be in debt as badly as we are in debt next year. And what the minister is saying, it's not true, is no investor's trust to give us money. What is the confidence only in Slovenia, which has 4 percentage points lower than Croatia, 4 percentage points, Mr. Minister, 500 million kuna of interest every year only for 7 months in debt. Yeah, you're in 10 years after you leave power, when some other government in 2020 will think about how to repay your debts. In those 10 years, Minister Schuker spent only 500 million kuna a year or 5 billion kuna in those 10 years, more interest than under conditions received by the Republic of Slovenia. And therefore, please don't talk about success because some countries like Greece are also in debt, which are in major problems and ultimately depending on the interest rate, we see whether this is a better, better quality and more responsible for the Republic of Croatia or not. And this is definitely not and this is the next thing you're going to do by the end of the year, it's going to be unfavourable for us again. And at the end of the message we have to send from here to Croatian citizens, I told whoever brought this problem cannot solve it. That he will be dealt with by a new government that will be headed by the SDP. ... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You haven't done anything in seven years, you just laugh like you laughed the other day in front of the government when you made a 15 billion kuna deficit, and you laugh at Croatian citizens, and they pay for it. And that's very funny, gentlemen. Just keep laughing and it will be a very useful message for Croatian citizens. What the SDP will do will certainly reduce public spending, we will return, we will reduce the VAT rate, we will help the economy, unlike you who are patching up these year's authorities just to stay in power with your coalition partners, we will facilitate the economy by abolishing parafiscal burdens, certain grants to make Croatian citizens easier to work and thus fill the budget. Unfortunately, there's nothing we can expect from this government, ladies and gentlemen. The only thing we can expect is noise and laughter while it's too difficult for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57624	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57625	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament and Deputy Prime Minister. Now, we've heard what's been said lately and a lot in the media, it's an example of an unargumented criticism that the SDP agent here said, so he also says the problems this government has done everything and then a man wonders, and what has she done to the SDP and coalition authorities at the time when they were in power? Well, then we can remember that you succeeded somewhere in 4 years, all that sold out that HDZ government didn't make in 17 years. I think that's what you were talking about today, selling out from banks, then black gold not to say INA, so HT silver, etc. So you've simply managed to sell out everything I say this HDZ government has failed in 17 years. And this inconclusive concern about workers, about their existence, so best to deny you remember when you came to power, you immediately took down 30 to 40% of the workers' salaries, then you weren't interested and cared about the workers. Remember the 10,000 employees of the police and the military, you fired immediately, you drove the people out into the street. With the dictatorship of proletariats, you abolished the rights acquired by workers in collective agreements. You simply derivated those collective contracts so that this government was charged with all of what you were doing, that I would, somewhere from 3 billion kuna. Now, as a great expert on economics in the SDP, I'm sure my colleague Maras would know that these 3 billion are now what could be done with them. But not to refer to the following data, so when you mentioned your colleague Maras GDP per capita in Zagreb, I will remind myself that in 2003, during your government of GDP in Croatia, it was $5,000, 634 US dollars, and today it is still 10, 000, 245 euros for 2009. Speaking of GDP per capita. But I must say that you are obviously all of you, and in particular the malicious commentators and in fact their advisors were economically expecting that this government would strike for what? According to the existence of workers, pensioners and those social structures in this country that are hard to live on. And simply there was a problem that this government proved to be responsible and socially sensitive, and it did not, and it simply gave you the argument of criticism. I wonder what you'd be doing today if by any chance you'd cut workers' salaries, that they were reduced pensions, that they were social rights, so clearly you'd be unhappy because you're not in power, because you're the opposition and you simply forgot the time when you were in power that you were doing it very well. So you simply don't have these arguments today but you find some unargumented criticism. Even more so, the government is aware of the difficult situation, which is why it found in this rebalancing ways to secure and raise funds for salaries, for education and education, which is why a colleague recently said she had no money, for pensions, for the unemployed, for an active employment policy. These are all the funds that are additionally secured in the budget rebalancing. Normally, such a decision by the government, as I said, is the majority of the opposition and the "Kukuriku coalition", so normally and in fact these economic advisers who compete and do not choose the words of criticism and the carrying out of their pamphlets at the expense of the government. But I must also say that none of these economic advisers of the opposition, the parties and neither the "Kukuriku coalition" came out with an alternative programme. He didn't come out with any alternative to this, so he told the citizens, look at me when we get to power, we'll do it, that and that. You'll get better, you'll live easier. No, you don't, like you don't have any arguments today about who to take away from, from which items take off someone's right to reduce the deficit in this country. You simply don't have such a proposal, and simply your mouth is full of concern for citizens, for the improvement of the state and for their social reality. But the fact is that the government is still fighting a battle with a financial crisis that is the cause of part of the legacy of current policies, but partly supported by a global recession that has certainly culminated, and now that we say here in Croatia is a little later problem than in other countries, and the culmination was in 2009, which was logically reflected in the 2010 budget revenues. But you will not admit one fact that the government has managed to finance all public obligations, in particular salaries and pensions, as well as all other social benefits. This may be irrelevant to you and the opposition, but it is very important to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to those social categories for their existence. There is also the crisis tax that was actually the result of the agreement with the social partners, although the government is constantly suggesting that it was unilaterally brought by the government. No, it was one compromise with social partners, let's remember. He wasn't popular in public, but he was necessary to finance all public needs and obligations. And finally he'll melt. As you know from July 1st, 967 thousand citizens have been exempt from that tax. This means they have already felt on these salaries and this has entered the average salary for the July month and the remaining 352 thousand citizens will be released from that tax as of 1 November. So he'll melt, but he was necessary at this point. By changing the income tax system is over a million and 400,000 citizens will have higher incomes. Surely, we all agree that we should discipline normally especially state-owned companies to pay their commitments in time and do so. And thus, in some ways, contribute to the reduction of inequitableness in Croatia. This budget rebalance must be on the way to the government's economic recovery programme. As much as individuals underestimate the value of this programme, the fact is, as I said, no one else has offered this Croatia any better. In 20 years, I've never seen one of the political options that came up with such a program, a programme of economic recovery, improvement, better life, etc. So all these criticisms that were heard today, but I'm surprised that they came most from the ranks and the "Kukurik coalition" who passionately wanted to come to power, had no concrete example other than clucking what they would do to improve these citizens and what they should actually change, except by trying to show their struggle for power in this way. And I believe that the citizens of this country will be able to recognize the hypocrisy of true concern for their existential reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57626	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57627	A fellow Kunst coalition government has made a series of failures, I can agree with you. Every government makes a series of failures. But I'm surprised why this government is going the same way. Comrade Kunst, I got 42 hours before this session, the beginning of this session calling that the session will be held at all. 30 hours before the session was held, I received a proposal from the so-called Proposal for a so-called Rebalance. How much space do I have left with you to properly and fully analyse and agree on common items, how do I actually get out of this crisis as quickly and efficiently as possible? Is that a proper way to work?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57628	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57629	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, representatives of the government. I'm sorry at the moment in the Deputy Prime Minister's Chamber and Minister of Finance, at least I wanted to commend him most patiently sitting all the time in the debate. He wasn't on the home financials and budget board yesterday, so I was just about to compliment him, but here's the chance I don't have right now. Not because it is only polite to be present when discussing such an important document and the main document from its portfolio, but that, and therefore perhaps from this debate, I look forward to hearing, so apply in the new one for next year because this rebalancing that we have today is likely to remain as it is, and it will probably vote this way, at least judging by the hands on my left which are in place. I'm saying that it might be good now already this debate makes sense to see what to change or what to do to make the budget for next year better, because it's obviously not going to do anything anymore on the rebalancing. Otherwise, this whole debate is late late in this Croatian Parliament and of course the extraordinary session should not have been because it was necessary to discuss all of this before, because everyone is already known to the wider Croatian public, including us here, and especially to the representatives of the Government that this budget is not being realized according to the planned, that the revenues have failed first of all compared to the planned ones. The budget was made from eating quite optimistic positions where positive economic growth rates were expected, and they are missing. And it's not known today, it's known after the first quarter, after the second quarter, and I don't see why it's been waiting until now to go into rebalance and balance the budget. The question is how much this rebalancing is really a real rebalancing except it's late, it doesn't even bring anything new in terms of substance. And the public expected a lot of this rebalancing, high expectations were both of the professional public, and of the scientific, and of the citizens. First of all, an extraordinary session is being announced, everyone is expecting something epic, new epochal good, and nothing really happened. It would be said in line with that people's "The hills were shaking, the mouse was born" what's going on with this rebalancing? The expenditures that are far above incomes are not reduced but on the contrary, they increase. Someone's gonna say 880 million. They were supposed to be reduced, not increased, so let's say by 880 million, and that's too much. The income side is normal that it cannot be balanced and the question is therefore the quality of this rebalancing is usually a quality rebalance when the cost of income is balanced. We're doing it here to balance incomes towards expenditures. How, by going into a new deficit, into a new assignment. And it's not a problem when you go into a new task when that task can be achieved under favourable conditions, and it's even more important where those funds will be spent for which we will be in debt. If we spent it on something that tomorrow, in a year's time, two will bring a new value, bring new development, bring a new battery from which to return, and those duties would have their own justification. However, when duties are taken to spend and immediately reimbursed, there is, of course, no justification. In fact, we are spending our future and all that is now to be taken will remain as weighty to future governments and to this Parliament and Croatian citizens to return it to the coming years. And instead of me, I'm optimistic and I want to believe that from next year our economy will start with positive growth rates, instead of that growth that will happen... which we will create to invest in improving our standard, in new development, we will spend on returning these unfavourable loans or otherwise... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the other people's resources we now need to collect this budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I am even more afraid of, which is that the next budget that will be in front of this House will soon be, but in one thing it will certainly differ from this rebalancing that it will probably not be as late as this rebalancing, that there will probably be copy traps of the existing because we already see it from some of the proposals that the expenditures will remain at the same level, income will not be as it is not this year and will go back into debt. Therefore, we will lose two precious years of development by borrowing money and spending and putting that money into consumption. Two lost years. When I said that the public expected much more from this rebalancing, she expected it because it was also announced, and everyone expected it in professional circles, some suggestions were made, and even certain indications were from the government that something might change. But when he apparently sat down with all those who needed to raise their hand for this rebalancing, so everyone had their demands apparently gave up a lot, I guess. And in any case, this rebalancing as it is, in fact, they will be paid by the existing coalition and its holding in power and we must be all aware of that and they are aware of that I hope and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So we're paying with this rebalance of maintenance in power, so probably next year, we're going to collect the bills that will come to us for the next few years. Because this kind of rebalancing... Instead of pulling us forward, going into new development, he's pushing us into the abyss, not forward. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone here mentioned or it seems to me that this rebalancing was done on the principle of "keeps the water while the masters leave" and it's really done that way. It will withstand this rebalancing of this government and this majority in the Parliament, but once the masters leave, we'll see the depth of the problem and we'll actually see that it would be better if the masters hadn't even come... It would have been better if they hadn't come because instead of fixing something, they'd just ruined it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, this rebalancing brings damage to Croatia and Croatian citizens instead of benefits, and it would really be time to take seriously the need to go into structural reforms and look for new solutions because this way we sink deeper and deeper and no justification with our neighbouring countries, as well as they have a deficit and they are in debt, are not compatible because their duties are completely different from our own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57630	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, this budget rebalance proves that all those black forecasts that were that the country's financial system would fall, that in the fall of the streets and protests would judge the government, so this particular budget rebalance fell into the water. Neither will the state go bankrupt nor will Greece happen to Croatia. Although I know that with this many are shocked and saddened by it because they were already ready to liquefy and think about some government moves but what they least expected happened, but what with both social and economic attitudes was the most logical thing to do. It is also important to keep budget expenditure at this level and in the coming years. It is certainly to welcome the social components of this budget, the fact that both salaries and pensions will remain on the existing level, that this is an expression of the concern of the Croatian government and Croatian citizens, for Croatian pensioners. But also from that economic point of view, we believe that this will contribute to the preservation of domestic consumption, but also to encourage consumption and that such a single policy that tries to define the situation for the next two years will allow people in this very sense to be encouraged and to rise up all together from this situation and this atmosphere created with the black forecasts. The black forecasts and the atmosphere that tried to create especially before summer, and now during summer, it is certain that they have not encouraged entrepreneurs or potential investors and that this is not a good atmosphere. We think that this budget rebalance will also be a certain turning point in this regard. What is certain is very difficult in this atmosphere to discuss about the expenditure side of the budget. Namely, I'm going to refer to a quote that's very interesting, indicative, which says the following. So, that's Mr. Milanovic's statement, I'm here to register 16.8 with Hvar where he concludes the following. It says public sector salaries are sustainable, but not a sustainable budget pay mass. The pay mass is too high and burdensome. On the clear and decided question of journalist Nova TV where he hosted the "Dnevnik" and how do you think to solve the problem, therefore the salary mass is not sustainable, which means that the number of employees should be reduced. He said no, he shut up. And then what, he needs to cut his salary and he shut it down. So this is about one opposition hypocrisy and creating this atmosphere that is very difficult to discuss on the expenditure side of the budget. Yells always need to be fucked, they need to be cut, the mass of wages is unsustainable, etc. And when a specific question is addressed, then say, "We want to reduce the number of employees." There were even proposals from the SDP for economic strategies to go about about 30, 40, 70,000 in the entire public sector, so what in the state services, which in the public sector, etc. Is that a solution? But let's go boldly and responsibly discuss it, and let's not make such statements, let's not turn the public on, and then later when we have to say exactly what we wanted and what we thought we were going to withdraw from it and not say anything at the end. I followed very closely as Minister Schuker here spoke about the structure of the state budget so he listed 35 billion for pensions, 20 billion for HZZO, 2.2 for social services and 2.2 for maternity benefits, 1.7 for children's allowances, 22 and a half billion for salaries in public services, etc. etc. And there were these kind of 114, 115 billion kunas that, when we look at it, need to be made clear, and when this kind of budget rebalance is criticised, it reduces it. It was the same SDP story that needs to be reduced to certain items, so it will save between 5 billion and 10 billion. And now I'm looking at this mathematically where that 5 to 10 billion is. Which would have to be reduced by these items, including these largest ones that are for wages and pensions, in order to get to that SDP math. What is raised on this budget rebalancing is the SDP against increasing incentives for peasants. Is it against 300 million kuna being given for these damages that people have suffered from the flood? Is the SDP against it, and what the government suggests in this budget rebalancing is that 100 million kuna is further allocated for maternity benefits or that 386 million kuna is additionally allocated for pensions. Therefore, this SDP must be precise and clear and cannot be used with rhetoric for those day-to-day political purposes. So there goes that election year, so now we don't want either social group or another group of society to hurt, so we go in principle by numbers, by statistics, and then we end up with nothing. What we are sure to do in the future is to discuss not only the debate but also a lot of activities on the revenue side of the budget. It is good that our employers also talked and made their comments on the budget rebalancing welcomed the matter, so there was no introduction of additional taxes which is good. And what I personally think, too, was that the debate was also held at a session of the parliamentary committee not to raise funds in the budget of some new large capital privatisations because it is not the time, because the price of the shares in the crisis we know what it is and in this sense it is to welcome it. It is also said here that the public sector can no longer invest or be a driver for investment. So that's what public companies are thinking about and because of their overindebtedness and that in fact the future of this investment, this one that is related to the rise of economic activity, we need to look first and foremost in the economy. So, in entrepreneurship, in the private sector. Accordingly, sectoral support should be reduced accordingly and horizontal support strengthened. In fact, when we talk about the economic situation, then it is certain that we are not just talking about these two crisis years and that we are not only talking about the problems that have arisen in these two crisis years, but we are talking about the backlogs of the past, so we can also say the one before independence and the state of the economy then in Croatia that came on the charge so all these years that have resulted in two serious and difficult structural problems. One of them is the problem of industrial production, i.e. decreases in industrial production. And secondly, this is the relationship between the employees and the relationship of the pensioner who was 1:1,28 for the July month. Namely, these two key strategic problems require a series of measures but also budgetary support and certainly where Croatia, the Croatian economy, but above all, the Croatian processing industry, which is the strongest and brightest point in this, should be sought in introducing new technologies, introducing patents and innovations and everything that is today referred to in the economic theory as intellectual capital that we take in the world's largest companies alone makes more than 70% of the total value of these companies. So, the more intellectual capital, the more new technologies and the added value as it is in the future will be the sole measure of one country's economic competitiveness and so on Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57632	Thank you very much, colleague Kovacevic. The replica was reported by distinguished counterpart Miljenko Doric. Comrade Doric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57633	My colleague Kovacevic, I respond to that part of your presentation where you mentioned that there are people who exult because of the difficult situation in Croatia. I want to make it clear here that I don't belong to you, and I hope they're not here in this House. Since you asked a number of questions to your SDP colleagues, you agreed not to replicate each other, I'm going to ask you two questions. Which would be that after you accept this rebalancing or so on. The rebalancing of Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Mr Shucker has failed to obtain the next new international loan. I ask you what would happen, would you then be able to use your knowledge, your work, the resources that we have ourselves to solve the financial situation in which we are or are already in the hands of those who give us credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57634	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of his colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57635	There's no response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57636	Okay. Here's how the deals are respected. Then let's move on with the debate, dear colleague Davorko Vidovic is up. Here's my colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57637	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to read some data to remind us once again, of course from the lab or the official statistics of what we got from the government, to remind us once again actually of where we are at this point as a state. And these figures are so inexorable and clear that they don't require any interpretation or mitigation of them, or their catastrophic exaggeration, they're just as they are. The figures say that the 2009 gross domestic product fell 5.8%, and this year we will be happy if it stops somewhere up to 2% of the minus. The figures we received as macroeconomic indicators also say that industrial production dropped by 9.2% in 2009. That the retail trade fell by 15.3%, that the construction index fell by 6 and a half percent, that the unemployment rate increased, and that the number of employees fell from a million and 544 thousand to a million and 450, respectively in this year and 425 thousand people. These are the facts, these are the figures that I hope, although there are attempts to interpret them, as I had the opportunity to hear from one of our colleagues yesterday, as actually a great result and a result that is better than Germany, and there are attempts to interpret these figures in this way. Now if we have the fact that in a country that had a low employment rate and too much unemployment anyway, we are recording a decline of 100,000 jobs, which necessarily had to lead to, say, only in income from contributions to Croatia, to a reduction of one billion and 600 million kuna, that's quite logical. What I'm being asked as a central question of what we're not talking about today, or we're not talking about at all, is what kind of a real relationship is a proposal for a change of budget that my colleagues call a rebalancing, and I call a imbalance, and this is how we define it through this data state of affairs. I just don't see that connection. I could say it like I tried to ask my colleagues the question yesterday, how about I come home, I get my wife, my kids, my mother-in-law, and if I tell them listen, my salary is less, and let's say I'm the only one working, my salary is going to be much less this year, and that's why we have one single solution, let's spend more. That's pretty much the way that this budget corresponds to the state of things that we have here. The fact is that the problems discussed here are primarily the original Croatian product. Given the structure of our exports, given the relationship between our economy and the world economy, we can say that this world economy affects what Professor Ljubo Jurcic would say somewhere between 15% and 20% of what is happening in Croatia, so 80% of all our problems are originally Croatian problems. I could now, although there is no need to say that 17 years in power are one political option, that one other political option has been in power for 4 years, but the facts are what they are. We have a serious, incredibly serious structural problem that will lead Croatia, our children and our grandchildren into an unimaginable situation unless we do something right now. And there's no single goal, no single interest, politically defined as winning the election, falling, losing the election, getting choices that would be more than saving our children's perspective. These data suggest that the Croatian state budget has been filled from several sources so far, one was credits, everything was fine or was a minor problem while these loans were favourable, while they could rise under favourable circumstances, and when that money was as much as you wanted. Another source of our income was taxes on imported goods. The third source of our income was taxes on the profit of an importer who, therefore, was stimulated all these years, the profit tax of the companies we sold was also one of the sources. In Croatia, we have not developed any production and the central issue that is now being raised before us, and I think that as the serious people chosen in this House we would have to answer these questions, it is simply that we will do it in this country and we will live on it in this country. I don't see a bond between this state, I don't want to be catastrophic, but I'm very optimistic about the possibilities of this country, I don't see a connection to what we've got here today as a proposal to change the budget. If, here, a government budget deficit is mentioned which indeed seven, eight years ago was the same, and this deficit itself, and it's not too much of a problem, the problem is something else, the base, the basis of that deficit has changed significantly. We are currently in charge of 102% of GDP. To service our 102% of GDP debt, we need about 6% of GDP a year. In other words, if we have 6% growth in Croatia, we are zero. We're at zero, we live equally because we have to use those 6% of the more we create in this country to service our debt. If we have a fall in the second year in a row, and it is quite certain that this fall will continue and next year then it means that it is very easy to calculate the final moment when no one will give us any more credit and when we will no longer be able to service our debts, nor our current expenditures, nor our needs because we do nothing to create a new income in this country that would ensure that we can serve not only external debts but that we can also settle the basic needs in this country. So the question of this budget or the definition of this budget could be said to be the ultimate act, I would say a desperate move by this government, but when Minister Schuker came here, let me say that, for the first time listening to him, I completely agreed with him that this budget and the changes to this budget were the moment of truth. This moment of truth is not only that it is often in the media in opposition, etc., said that the government has no ability. This is a moment of truth that says that the government does not want, has no political will, will not in any way cut down and face the real problems that I was just talking about. This government just won't do it. I don't get it. I'd say political motivation for that kind of thing. Hold the water until the masters leave! As long as it takes. As long as we're in charge, we'll be in charge. But it has its own lifetime. Even if, in some cases, the same team were to have confidence in the next election, and the same team would find themselves in a situation where it couldn't go on like this. Is it clear to you, gentlemen of the government, that there are objective reasons for you to stop acting like this, otherwise we have not achieved a minimal responsibility to ourselves but we have imposed a grave evil on our own children and the future of all of us in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57638	Thank you. It's time for debate, dear colleague Davor Huška. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57639	I thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. Here is a rebalancing, I call it a compromise rebalancing, a compromise on social partners, according to employees of state and public services by non-reduction of salaries, according to pension-free pensions, according to farmers with the aim of paying incentives and providing additional funds for the resolution of the consequences of the elementary disaster, and they are provided with funds for the unemployed, for maternity benefits, for child benefits, for social benefits, meaning for those most vulnerable categories of population in the Republic. It is all the burden of increasing deficits and reducing budget spending by 1.5 billion kuna in 2010. The deficit would be well above 4.2% if the government did not reduce public expenditure and rationalise business in 2009 and 2010 reduced the total level of state spending by 6.1 billion kuna. Reduction in 2009 2.7 billion and 2010 3.4 billion kuna. Salaries for state and public officials have been reduced, down from 6%. For state officials, the reduction of 10 and 5% again. For judicial officials, a 10% reduction. Pensions have been reduced to 2 times 10%, other pensions under special regulations, especially here mentioning HRVI pensions have been reduced by 10%. Subsidies and capital aid have been reduced to state-owned companies, especially the Croatian Railways and Jadrolinia and a whole series of other austerity measures, which have saved 6.1 billion kunas, and should, in particular, be added a billion-and-a-half additional to this rebalancing. This should also highlight the revenue of 1.9 billion kuna, which came into the budget in 2010 following the introduction of a special tax. These are difficult decisions both of the prime ministers and members of the government, but that's what the citizens have accepted. The opposition led by the SDP requires further deep cuts. As far as possible, we heard it today, and we all know, only by reducing wages and pensions, or by increasing taxes. On the other hand, when public and public officials have reduced salaries over the past 2 years, when pensions are reduced according to special regulations are not supported by members of the SDP and the opposition as well as by the introduction of special taxes that we are abolishing this year. They were also their time supporters of the increase in deficits, and today, when we and a large number of European countries do so, they are against or may be again as SDP President Milanovic has constructively abstained. The question is, who's crazy here, and then what does the SDP really want? They may wish for teachers and teachers on the streets, a delay in the start of the school year, hospital strikes, the exit of farmers with tractors on the roads and a kind of Greek scenario. I hope that's not true. This rebalancing is supported by both workers and trade unions, in one part and employers, certainly by pensioners and even by the president of the SDP, and who, according to SDP representatives, is ready for painful cuts? It seems to be just some of the few members of the SDP. Finally, it should also be said here that so far the Government of the Republic of Croatia is still taking a number of other measures that will boost economic activity and make the budgetary outcome stable and sustainable in the long term. The growth of the deficit by 4.2% of GDP in 2010 is acceptable because the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme and the implementation of the first effects expected in the coming and coming years will turn negative trends into positive and the deficit will decrease significantly until the full balance of income and expenditure, which will be set in the Fiscal Responsibility Act. By reaching a balance of revenue and expenditure, all expenditure of the state budget will be frozen, and the number of employees in public and public services will be reduced annually by 2%, which will affect the overall reduction of expenditure on employees and material expenditure. For all the above, of course, I support this budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57640	Thank you very much. After the application, the distinguished colleague, Mr. Dragica Zgrebec, is in line. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57641	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. When we actually remove all these political epithets that we honor this budget rebalance and shift responsibility from one political option to another, then they actually remain naked figures and facts. They say that with this rebalancing, we had to cut revenue by $ 4.5 billion, because almost no tax revenue is realised as planned, and not even the VAT even if we say that consumption has started stagnating somewhere, and the VAT rate is one index point higher. We also had to increase expenditures by nearly 890 million kuna, and we say that because it was necessary to increase pension amounts, for agricultural incentives, for some other purposes, and in fact this is about not being well planned, we did not predict that we would have such an outflow of people in retirement that we will now stimulate by amending the Pension Insurance Act that an increasing number of people are leaving in early retirement and, in fact, we need to provide for a greater amount of funds for these purposes in the state budget. That resulted in a 14 billion kuna deficit. We've never questioned the height of the deficit from the SDP. In fact, we have often suggested that the deficit be slightly larger, if through the deficit we can actually affect greater economic growth. If the deficit isn't liquid consumption. It was precisely from the HDZ ranks that the special finance minister was constantly tending to reduce the deficit, to come into some of the frameworks in which the countries are in the eurozone and Croatia is not yet a member of the European Union. In other words, why is the problem of the budget deficit when it must fully cover current commitments. And we will adopt this amending budget, and that is the law on the implementation of the state budget, which will increase the government's debt this year to 34.6 billion kuna, almost 4 billion and 700 million euros. In other words, the state will again be one of the larger generators of increasing external debt or total public debt. Our last assignment, or through the placement of the bond, was actually very unfavourable conditions for what we can collect in the budget. It's an opportunity between something in a rough account in those 10 years between 8 and 9 billion kunas of interest alone. So it's not exactly that convenient. In particular, it is not favourable if you have to cover current expenditure with loans. The budget, by definition, has redistributed parts of the social product to cover state needs, to cover education, health care, social services, and that is its function. And here to tell someone that he's against covering the social needs of the population, covering the salaries of employees in school, health care, etc. In fact, misunderstanding is even a function of the state budget. The state budget base is actually an economy. When you have a strong economy and a high amount of gross social product he and in the years he falls, you retain a good basis for filling the state budget. Our weak economy, an economy that depends on imports, which does not develop, our industry is almost halved, it is inefficient, it is technologically outdated. So in order to raise the possibility of industrial and economic growth at all, we need to invest a lot in it, then we have the kind of picture that we do because it's presented through this budget rebalancing. We also have a bad situation with regard to employment, which is once again a reflection of the weak economy. The latest data says that we have a million and 189 thousand 741 users' pensions, that's 7 months' data, and a total of 542 thousand 110 insurance companies. We are below 50% of the employees in the active population. The European Union countries have declared their desire to have 70% of employees in the working population. Where are we? And if we continue this way, our tax revenues will be even bigger. These are incomes that oscillate, which depend on the number of employees when it comes to income tax, it is a matter of efficiency of the economy when it comes to profit tax. Our economy fell by 73% last year. So most economic operators are at a loss. And those who are permanent incomes that don't have such great oscillations I'm afraid to introduce. The conservative English government introduces a 28% rate on capital gains. The president today's opening statement says "Every kuna is as big as a mountain" or something like a house, and we say here, whatever we're going to pick up 10, 100, 200, 300 million from such transactions or from a property tax. It takes time to get us in. But if we don't start introducing these kinds of taxation, this way we'll always have a high budget deficit. When we talk about the economic programme, or what the government called the economic recovery programme, problems have been detected, but measures have not been developed. And that's why none of the measures that are planned there give results. We've introduced three kinds of financial assistance, but the second measure is not being realized at all, we haven't even come to third. This is because we are not removing the causes of the crisis, but in some ways, through the expenditure side of the budget, we want to actually treat the consequences. You need to know what causes the crisis so you can treat the consequences. When budgeting, you have to have a budgetary policy. We do not see any budgetary policy from the budget that we bring to Parliament. Budgetary policy we say is a back-up budget with 90% and then we're counting on these kind of rights. All these rights stem from the Law that the Government proposes, and Parliament adopts and proposes in the laws of rights that you cannot cover, it is irresponsible, but once you introduce such rights, then citizens have the right to implement them. So, actually, before every budget, you have to have a budget policy, and before any law is passed, you have to have resources not to wait, we're going to pass the law, and then we're going to see how we're going to be able to make it happen. And that's why, let's say, there's a need to increase the funding for incentives in agriculture because we've promised some people, because we haven't changed the law in the meantime, and we've reduced our support compared to 2009. With these 600 and a few million kuna increases in these aids we actually come to the level of support for agriculture that was in 2009. And that is why it is difficult to discuss in this way both the budget and the budget rebalancing when we do not really want to enter into the essence of what is the crisis of the Republic of Croatia, which is not a reflection of the global crisis, but a deep structural crisis that exists in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57642	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague colleague, Nenad Stazic, also appeared for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57643	There are some breaking moments in every nation's life. These are the moments when the fate of the state and the fate of the people are determined for a decade in advance. At such breaking moments, those who lead the country should act stately, rise above their usual political mediocrity and political everyday life. In such breaking moments, it may also be necessary to bear a sacrifice in that ideal heroic sense of that word, it is necessary to forget about your petty self-loving, selfish interest and to pursue the interests of the people and the state. Since the Homeland War, Croatia has not been in such a crucial moment as today. With the rebalancing of this budget, this government must make a fatal decision. All political analysts, all economic analyses from both left and right speak the same, if this continues to be the case. The car's moving down the hill, and the speed's getting bigger, the break-in is already showing, and the government that drives that car is a happy punch and Minister Schuker's laughing. How do you put together the rebalancing of this budget, what interests have you been taking in? Do the interests of the people and the state? You had three principles, to feed your hungry coalition mouth, to court your own electoral body, to hold as much as possible in power as possible, so where did it crack and what cost to cost. Because of the political present you steal from the future, but that future isn't just yours, it's the future of the entire people, it's the future of our children. You're acting like Marinkovic's maestro coming home at night, pulling straw out of his straw that he has to lie down on to light that straw with fire to warm himself on. You've been anticipated and described in the literature. What does Minister Shuker do all these years? He travels the world, owes us and laughs. In 2003, the external debt amounted to 19.9 billion euros, now 46 billion euros. Minister Shuker, you have charged the country 26 billion euros during your term. Every day, both working and unemployed, you put the country in debt for 10 million 176 thousand euros. 10 million 176 thousand euros every day. Both today and yesterday and the day before yesterday, and you're still laughing at it. That's how many people pay your laugh every day. I look at you all here today, clapping for yourself, thrilled with yourself, with your brains, with your genius. No one else in the country applauds you. You clapped for yourself this morning. Citizens are gnawing in the growing misery under the unbearable burden of your authority. Says Minister Shuker needs to increase revenues. And what did you do to increase them? The military gave up 210 properties and handed them over to the Central State Office for State Property Management. All of this was given or sold or given in concession or put into operation, all of it could have been revenue of the budget. The Croatian Privatisation Fund, or later founded club Adriatic in 100% HFP owned by the military, was handed over to eight tourist and catering facilities, in a row of Hotel Commodore with a camp in Orebić, hotel Allen with a camp in Baška Polje, hotel Croatia in Baška Voda, hotel Krvavica in Krvavica, autocamp bay Slana in Selc, tourist resort Pineta in Fažana, hotel depadance Eden in Crikvenica, hotel-tourism complex Kupa. None of it's been put into operation. Everything could have been budget revenue if you hadn't brought in the most incompetent of the most incompetent you could have found, who don't do anything at all, spend government money, don't earn a salary. So why didn't you put it into operation, so why didn't you get at least where you could? It's easier to travel around the world instead, to borrow us and laugh. I'm looking at you today at the beginning of the debate, looking at your haughtiness, at your mockery of every constructive debate. You know that haughtiness will come to an end, it's quite certain. This circus of yours today at one, two hours, three hours when the debate lasted, with your each other clapping, that noise will come to an end. You know the dawnlights of the new day, the corny first cocks, they're getting louder and more and more. Wakes up Croatia, wakes up Croatian citizens to welcome the day of elections, the day Sanader buys those watches on the street and when that laugh on your face, Minister Shuker, will freeze.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57644	Deputy Prime Minister, you can always get back to me. You have inspections, you can control all the bars, charge everyone's taxes, control that they have a work permit. In the end, we're asking you to do it, and we want the rule of law, and that's it. A further discussion comes with counterpart Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In the '70s and '80s, I was an optimist. It was only a matter of time before one-party systems in Central and Eastern Europe collapsed. '91. and '92. I was an optimist for years. It was only a matter of time before Croatia released occupied territories. In 2010, my colleagues and colleagues have to admit that I'm no longer an optimist, I'm not. I listened carefully at 1:00 PM, listened carefully to my colleague Maric when he spoke about the problem of banks, their interest. I forgot to say that I specifically underline what the prime minister said about overdoing the global crisis and our situation. I listened very carefully to a fellow Greek man who spoke about tax policy and we can all agree and make the same diagnosis. But the problem between a colleague and a colleague is not diagnosed, the problem is therapy. The problem is whether we're capable of getting out of this crisis we're in. That's the problem. What concerns me particularly is the hard-core repetition of our ministers that the difficult situation we are in is the result of the global crisis. It's colleagues and colleagues nonsens. I agree with Professor... Jurcic and those who have made clear today 90 or 80% of our problems are related exclusively to our internal problems of incompetence, malversion and everything else. Those who have problems in the world in Germany is one good example of the financial crisis has become an economic one. They simply helped financial institutions through two groups of measures and at the same time chose those perspectives, those development and economic branches, encouraged them and today have a relatively short growth of 2% after a relatively short time. I ask you colleagues and colleagues what we are today in the opening presentation and in this budget we could see from these measures that the Croatian Government will take to which economic branches we will go with incentives, which new profiles we will educate, which technological processes we will transfer, which scientific projects we will encourage, which is the strategy on which we base the recovery of this country. I didn't hear anything about it today. Believe me, I didn't hear anything about it. I can only try to conclude that the Croatian government has credited certain companies, who participated in public works, who sat on boards and boards. My colleagues and colleagues, the list of names that I should read now is so long that I won't be able to but at least I'll start that list and you'll see who was in charge of the loans, of the works, of the signing of the contract. Josip Protega, Marija Kirinić, Ivan Sladonja, Nevenka Jurak, Bojan Dimić, Svetomir Gače, Ivan Galić, Darko Marinac, Zdravko Šjeljak, Damir Polancec, Ivan Mlovak, Ivan Koštan, Ljubo Bušić, Anto Matić, Petar Čubelić, Zdenko Jurić, Ivan Kapular, Rade Buljušić, Deša Mlikotin Tomić, Marko Vuković, Ivan Žapčić, Darko Tipurić, Slaven Žužul, Jozo Zuzul, Jurica Prskalo, Drago Maček, Goran Vukasov etc. etc. etc. etc. There was a lot of capital in their hands, and it depended on them very much. My colleagues and colleagues, today we haven't heard anything about what we intend to do to make billions and billions don't get lost every year in corruption affairs and scandals. Furthermore, take a look at the European Union, which requested that inspection be carried out in connection with the spending of state incentives in agriculture. My colleagues and colleagues, it turns out that as many as 9.5% of verified users have been using these incentives illegally or incorrectly. So hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars went by the wind. The wind is synonym for friendly pockets. That's not good. We didn't say anything about that either. My colleagues and colleagues, there is a similar situation in shipbuilding, the use of different preferential pensions, public procurement, local and regional self-government, etc. etc. Where are we today? In July of this year we have 34,000 unemployed more than in July of last year. It's terrifying that we have over 100,000 young people at the Employment Services who only a few years ago completed their education, over a hundred thousand colleagues and colleagues. Let's just take a figure of 2,000 kuna a month as much as a parent singled out for that child, and just as many cities, county, state for their schooling. At this point, the Employment Service stands at least a hundred billion kunas in the form of young educated, capable, professional people. Which country, a small country like ours, can bear such a burden, such failures, and I spoke to colleagues and colleagues only about the youngest. Yeah, two and a half times as many are older, and the same are on the desk. I won't be long, but I would just like to tell my colleagues and colleagues that the privatisation of the 1990s has stolen Croatian past, and in this decade some hands have been dragged deep into the pockets of our grandchildren. I think we need to stop that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57646	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear colleague Daniel Srb. He's here. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57647	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. After this long-standing debate on the rebalancing of the Republic of Croatia's 2010 budget, I consider it necessary to highlight a few things, but while keeping an eye on it and trying to repeat as little as possible what is said today in a long-term debate several times. Namely, when it comes to the very dependence of the Republic of Croatia on the budget, and this attempt to rebalancing has shown that budget expenditures today are almost impossible to reduce, without affecting the lives of a large number of residents who depend on the support of different forms from the state budget, which means that the free space for interventions itself is very little to reduce funds from the state budget, which you, Mr. Minister, spoke about in the opening presentation. But what is really the biggest problem, as I see it, is the fact that this year we have a fall in economic activity again and that income foreign budgets are not actually increasing, that they are shrinking and that this is the fundamental problem Croatia is likely to be dealing with for some time. The question is what are the activities that the Croatian government can and must take to increase budget revenues. How to actually encourage our economy to new investment swings. The question is actually where to secure the funds. From borrowing hard, but there are other options. There are concessions, public private partnership and other forms. Unfortunately, we also have a Public Private Partnership Agency that has practically secured the application of only one contract since its establishment. So the purpose of this agency is not to encourage the application of a model that needs to provide new investment investments, but rather vice versa, it seems to be used to stop the process. But the problem is that there are no new solutions to the use of the entire state-owned apparatus, state-owned companies for new economic development. There are a number of projects that stand in many drawers of different ministries and state administrations, which is also spoken of by one of the authors of the economic recovery programme, which is not realised. There are numerous opportunities to create new jobs, to increase investment, ultimately filling the state budget, which would, of course, enable a smaller deficit, and a lower need for borrowing and any other positive effects resulting from this. When it comes to what this budget is, it is not a developmental one, because it does not have elements to encourage development, since almost all resources are shared by pre-defined budgetary users. He's, I call him stagnant because he's practically in this kind of economic crisis actually the fruit of trying to cut budget expenditures. What this time, during this rebalancing, has been missed, and the consequences of the failures that were shown since December when this budget was passed is the character of one part of the costs contained in this budget. I then warned, and now it hasn't changed, namely there are still obvious based on the demands of one coalition partner, the process of sharing money from the state budget to municipalities based on ethnicity. It's something that can't pass in a modern state. It is therefore absolutely unacceptable to share money from the state budget on the basis of the national composition of the population. If there is one part of Croatia, one municipality, one place, where there is a need for water or something else, then it should be done there because Croatian citizens live there, not because they are citizens of this or that of ethnicity. This is civilized today, and we cannot introduce in Croatia a model of a national minority, which has more rights than other national minorities and than the majority population. All Croatian citizens should be equal and money from the state budget should be spent in such a way. So aside from this perhaps relatively small amount, although according to the prime minister, each kuna is important and then millions are very large, the question is another, and this is a large programme of housing care for persons who left Croatia in '91, lost tenant rights based on valid laws, and now it is entering into the process of buying, building new apartments to assign to them, the SDSS now requires and the possibility of buying these apartments under particularly favourable conditions as they were in the 90s, which means practically rewarding, or direct spilling a few tens of thousands of euros, to anyone who left Croatia at that time, not because he went abroad to school, not because he had exhibitions of art works in European metropolis, but because he was going to war against Croatia. Thus, money from the state budget cannot be shared, the country that rewards those who have waged war has no perspective, and it is actually one-off funds that cannot be provided from the Croatian budget. It's about a program that weighs more than 3 billion kuna itself. The truth is not only realized in one year but over many years, but these are enormous money for Croatian taxpayers, for workers, for teachers in schools, doctors, nurses and all others. It is something that Croatia can financially endure, and for which there is no need. And finally, it is unacceptable to finance from the state budget the rise of monuments in different generations and ethnic cleansing, which was also from this state budget, and which I protest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57648	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja is next to be discussed. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57649	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Well, here in this long discussion of ours today, we heard an opposition that said we were wrong. I can't say because I wasn't in politics at the time of the coalition government, I became a parliamentary representative in 2003 and then HSU became a parliamentary party and I really don't know how and what style the coalition government ruled, but the fact that today they said we were wrong, dear God. But I haven't heard the representatives of this government say anything has ever been wrong. And Mr. Vice-President of the Government at the end of my presentation, I'm going to ask you whether we were wrong or if you think the government made a mistake in 2007 when we were passing amendments and amendments to pension laws or wrong now that it's proposing amendments and amendments to the law because it can't be theoretically twice right. And I'm glad that Mrs. Prime Minister said that her 20 million kuna is a big money. And I would even prefer that she said that every job should be kept as a pupil of its own eye because it has its contribution to the revenue side of the budget. I also have to say that it's okay on our side, and I have repeatedly declared that no pay or pension should be touched, and I welcome that. However, it should also be said that salaries and pensions are already touched and that all structures of Croatian society with the exception of representatives of large capital and with the exception of persons who receive the highest salary in Croatia, and these are neither members of the government nor parliamentary representatives, but managers, managers of large corporations etc., all others felt the burden of the crisis, but they have not yet felt the burden of the crisis. I remind you we have 3% of the health contributions for those who have worked the longest and paid the most contributions, for the pensioners we have a 4% stakeout, police officers, defenders, soldiers and anti-fascist fighters lost 10%. With anti-fascist fighters now and under the pension that would belong to them under the general rules. We did not give them that possibility, or the government did not give them the option of choosing not to fall below the pension earned under the general rules because then there is no pension under special regulations. So that's where we have that problem. And of course, all those who are "protected" to social clauses have also felt the burden of this crisis because there is no harmonisation of pensions, and the prices are growing, and there is no one who knows when they will be, there is no pay increase and that is part of the burden that falls on their backs, but there are still those who are excluded from any burden. Now, to concentrate on this rebalancing I'll only talk about 2 items. One item 356 million kuna of new increased pension expenditure and 170 million kuna for the referendum. Now, I've been taking part in the last seven years of some 12 years that budget rebalancing. He has always been a minister, and he should be commended, based on the HZZO budget in a million kuna, he guessed how long it would take him in a certain year for pension expenditures. But this year we don't, and this year we don't even have a synchronization, we don't even have an enormous cost of living, we don't have a salary increase. Why not this year? Because it increases 70% in these first nine months, the number of early retirement applications. And why is it increasing? Because HDZ won the elections in 2007 thanks to advertising that it has resolved more favourably, i.e. reduced the pensions due to early retirement, due to repayment of debt, etc. Most of the vote went to you. We were robbed by electoral legislation and electoral engineering, HSU. So, you went to most of the vote because we'd cut the penalization. ... Oh, wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Wait a minute, listen if you don't know. With this year, Minister Schuker signed an agreement that I didn't see with the World Bank where it was necessary to increase the pensions and that went into the measures of the government of the Republic of Croatia. This should also take effect as from 01 January of the following year in force, i.e. from 01 October, as set out in the draft law. What happened? What kind of climate has been created in people who have conditions? He doesn't give the state the conditions to retire. People either have internships or they don't. They have years to live or they don't. You can't ignore that. Of course they've created fear of penalization. Whoever has the condition to go to early retirement will now make a request when per year the internship loses 1.8% rather than what it will give next year when it should lose 4.8% per year according to the bill. So what happens now? We've got people triple the damage. And who actually made that profit? First we have a problem of 356 million kuna on the spending side of the budget, we have 25 thousand people who pay less wages and contributions, so we have a deficit on the income side, and at the same time, employers whose people will leave voluntarily, voluntarily, because such a panic has been created, will not be hired new, will not because it is a crisis, will not be costing themselves. He'll want to keep getting or doing business in the same frames. We're here, that's what we're doing. I have publicly asked the minister to say gentlemen there will be no increase in pensions due to going to early retirement. So you have this guard at the entrance to the Assembly Hospital, he has 42 years of training and 60 years of life. 42 years of internship, you know what that means? And you know what it means to go with 8% or 7.5% or go with 20.4% less pension. So the effect is 42 years the internship wants to decrease by a full 20%. I see my time is running out, so I won't explain it any further, but I think we've figured out where the problem is and it could've been blocked and this cost could've been avoided. 170 million kuna expenditure for the referendum. In my opinion, the wise government could give up amending and supplementing the law and return to the process of negotiating with the social partners. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. No democratic country at national level negotiates with its social partners. The Italians call it... the treatying, the planning of the future, so to determine the direction towards developing the whole state and the economy and the social activities of the state and everything and the institutions of the state and everything else. And last thing I'm saying, we have another reserve that's not touched here at all. The reserve is called and I haven't heard, I'm sorry, maybe someone said in today's discussion of the gray economy. Two years ago, we were talking about 7 billion gray economies, unaffected by anything, out of control. I know she's a social shocker. The grey economy at the time of the crisis in each country is a social shocker and the government has to tolerate it in part, but it cannot always cut the same sheep, it must expand a small number of those that cut it. It can't always just be available. So the fight against the gray economy must be a fundamental task of the government. By my assessment, and by the assessment of some experts, that framework must be over 10 billion and certain that the government would be worth it. Sooner or later, it's gonna have to be done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57650	Thank you very much. A colleague, Slavko Linic, is next to be discussed. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57651	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The reason we're discussing budget rebalancing is the deficit. The deficit created on the one hand due to a slightly smaller amount of expenditure increases and a significant reduction in revenue. And in fact, we see that the fundamental problem is income rebalancing. So we wonder if this could be assumed at the time of the budget, because then it was assumed that there would be fewer incomes, we could probably influence not so much of our income and that the active measures of government policy really influence us to avoid today's situation, but also different behaviours in the economy and in public consumption. So immediately after the budget is adopted that says that we will have solid revenues, that we can keep spending, that there will be no greater deficit than that 2.5% or something around 6 billion, we are all put to sleep. Although at the time it was evident that the economy had decided to reduce the number of employees because of the global crisis and the problem of exports and plasma, as well as because of the huge problems at home. Today we record 80,000 employees less. Many of us, but I would say analysts, bank analysts have been saying between 50 and 60 thousand people who will be out of work in 2010, today we say that this figure is more than 80,000. Are we aware that this is even less income tax, that it's simple and less contributions, what's most important. Are we aware that this is, on the other hand, a huge problem for companies because they've been paying some severance money, but apparently and negative results, so let's keep an eye on the problem of profit tax. But something else was significant at that time, great and enormous indifference. Individence not only reflected in the non-payment of workers in mutual non-payment, but also non-payment of tax liabilities. And the finance minister is aware of these problems, and he is using these opportunities to enable some companies who hire people to pay back. But apparently there's no money. No contributions are paid, contributions are delayed on paid salaries, and more workers are paid neither pension nor health and, of course, VAT is not paid. And you don't pay for it. That's unfortunately a fact, that's why we have 4.5 billion spending cuts. Now, could something have been done not to make it happen? There was clearly something to be done to encourage the economy, to keep employees, to encourage the economy to export, to produce, to be competitive on the domestic market. A lot of big ones, and what's that? And you see, in the SDP, we've been saying three years we've been suggesting important things. One of the most important is the change in tax policy. Not the introduction of new taxes, but the contribution to health care in one good part is replaced by property taxes, capital taxes, various visions, all kinds of stupid ones, I apologize for such a harsh expression, we've heard the arguments. Too soon, we can't, we don't have land books, it's not a crisis to carry out. And now we see that the government is thinking that one. 1st introduces that tax. And did we introduce him in 2008? We did. Could we reduce our health contributions? We did. Could this help entrepreneurs not to create dubiosis? We did, we could do it all, all of it was clear, unequivocal suggestions. Bank-free liquidity is not resolved, interest was rampant, deposit interest has crossed 7%, we said take fiscal measures with special taxes on high interest. No, it couldn't have been then, but today's debate about taxing banks by capital is something that can be done. It just shows how seriously we didn't take the crisis and the measures that were discussed in this House, but the government said no and most in the Parliament didn't want to talk about it. So the measures of the active fiscal policy, the measures and decisions of this Parliament, the laws of this Parliament could have a significant impact on us that the economy does not interrupt production, that the economy does not stop production and that we simply have as many employees as possible, that the economy is liquid, that the economy can at least pay its commitments today this problem would be quite different. More workers, fewer pensioners and fewer people at the employment office. That's why we in the SDP are afraid, why, because we see further problems. We're talking about protected pensions and salaries. That's not true. Peace is protected under the law, let us not burden ourselves, for all those who have made their pension through their work will not be reduced by those pensions. Public sector workers, 250 thousand of them, 260 thousand, we'll also protect them. But what about the million real sector employees, how many will get new cancellations by the end of the year? So remember, the shipyard no more contracts can be concluded, no contracts. Will he fire the workers? It will. What's gonna happen to other firms that are inequitable because they pay taxes? They'll also be fired. Their wages aren't safe. Will the pay cut? It will. Whether he will be exposed to the risk of paying the net wages, and his contribution to the peace will not be paid, so he will have problems when he goes to early retirement. Yeah, that's what we see. We haven't talked about these people today, it's the difference between the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We protect in the public sector, and a million people who generate social income, who fear every day if they get fired, whether they get paid. We didn't send them a good message with this rebalance. Full and further uncertainty, and why? Because there's no incentive to the economy, we don't have them. Yes, governments in Europe go into deficits, but why? It's funded by the consumption of domestic goods, funded. Special incentives are also given in France and Germany because they do not want job closure. It's all government, getting into deficits. And for us there is no problem with the deficit if we will give for domestic production, home tram, home engine, modernization of the Croatian railway. We won't be burdened by those deficits, but unfortunately there's no investment. There's a strange debate here, there can be no state investment, and I'd say a state incentive to raise economic activity. Well, it's not true, gentlemen, we don't have electricity, we import electricity. We need to invest, we need to in any way new electricity, new amounts of electricity, export electricity. So these are all investments that we need from the state, the government has to encourage them. Shall we talk about Croatian railways? So we have to rebuild the railways, we have to invest in railways, they're all state investments, but what we have to do is make these investments work by Croatian companies, Croatian companies, workers, to stay in the workplace. Yeah, those are the messages we were supposed to send. That's what we say no, we can't have state investments anymore. Therefore, the SDP estimates that such behaviours, such thinking through rebalancing, do not give the most important message to people who generate national incomes whether they will have a secure salary, whether they will have a secure job. This budget says they won't have it, and that's why we say we can't accept this budget. We have to reject it, we have to take a different approach and incomes and turn around with incentives. And remember, not to talk about solutions, we're talking and we've been proposing them for three years, but unfortunately you don't like to hear them. And one more thing, if we have raised 25 billion consumption in the last three years, we should find a way to resolve the reduction of that public spending. And it is evident that the rationalization of the administration, the reorganisation of the administration that started, means a few fewer employees in the public sector, but a completely different distribution of salaries, not that we have bosses without people doing their jobs and that all the bosses are in public services and especially agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57652	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57653	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives of the government. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I must say, the first impression I read of the 2010 draft budget of the Republic of Croatia is that I got chilly. Namely, I have found and it is not disputed that the government suggests that in terms of Croatia's 45 billion euros in debt and when this government, through the country's digestive tract, expelled 25 billion euros within 7 years or other words when this government borrowed and spent the money of future Croatian generations, decided to say at this point that I will ensure a rise in costs of 900 million and will increase the deficit to 15 billion kuna. In such a situation, I have come to think of a people's wisdom, that a wise man does not care what is now his, but what awaits him in the future. And what awaits us in the future is very well served by the clubs of the ruling. The ruling clubs do not trust their government, so they offer the Parliament a conclusion, so an administrative measure to limit spending for the next two years at the level that we are establishing ourselves. This is the administrative proposal of the ruling clubs, so they do not trust the Government that it can keep under control the costs but offer a conclusion, and this is not, of course, a financial and economic measure, but an administrative measure to which the ruling clubs commit their government. So much for trust and doing it for a reason. If this government spent 25 billion euros over the course of seven years through the digestive tract, and kept the unemployment rate or increased the unemployment rate, then of course you can't believe that this government is going to change policy and start taking care of future generations. Well, of course you can't and I agree to draw such a conclusion. Of course, he will not be respected as was not everything the government has promised the citizens, nor what it has promised, and most importantly from this conclusion is that the government is going directly against the policy that has been written in the Constitution and has promised not to worry about the common interests of Croatian citizens, especially not about future generations. So, the next question that I am interested in, and I hope that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are also interested in whether it can come from the balance sheet of this government and its seven years of ruling as it is now and as it has done. So she spent money and didn't hire and provide jobs she expected to change it in the last year of government. Well, you can't expect that, unfortunately, even in the future, if by any chance the citizens give it to her. It can't be expected simply because it's the policy this government has learned its clientele to. But please, in these circumstances, I've been reading it the other day, but today I've checked it out on the Internet, the government has decided, say, to get 1,100 vehicles. 1100 vehicles in the year when he asks for 15 billion kuna abroad to cover what she spent and to cover not what she earned but what the future generations would earn, he would have to earn and pay back. She decided to get vehicles and that's 1100, 1103 says on the Internet. Therefore, in such circumstances no change in the policy of this government can be expected. And then, for a reason, the representatives' clubs are asking for an administrative measure to be taken and to ban the government from spending and in the coming years what it did not earn or at least limit it. But what does that mean? What happens next year after that conclusion? So this conclusion does not limit price growth, energy, utility and nothing, because of course it is not such an economy, it is not such an economy that we can order there is no price increase. In other words, you will have a lower standard for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for the next two years, but it should then be open and say why it will have and whose purpose it is, whose interest it is. This is not the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the third thesis is that in these circumstances when the Government does not or does not want to, but in any case it does not have and does not offer a policy to get out of this cycle of spending and this is the spending of future money of future generations, Croatian generations. In such a situation in democratic countries, a democratic exit is sought, a new legitimacy, a change of policy is sought. And that really calls for new legality and legitimacy. The government has decided, not national and not the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to blur the eyes of the citizens, so it says this year because next year's elections will not touch you formally or the salaries you receive from the budget or pension. But just so you know, next year it's going to be at the same level, and all the other costs are going to go up, so your standards are going to fall. That's about the message. Should this budget be supported in such a situation? You should if you think for yourself and for yourself. It's possible, though, it's not fair to the citizens and it's not the policy you promised. In such a situation, it is very important to be open, clear, even if you are not respected at this time. Next year you will be able to appeal to your speech and unfortunately I will be right next year, and you who will vote for this budget contribute yourself to the fraud of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Citizens know that you can't live on other people's money, on other people's work, and you can't have the money of future generations unaccounted for. This budget ensures it, and I won't vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57654	Thank you very much. Mr. Boro Grubisic. He's gone. And with that, we've exhausted the list for this first item of the agenda. I'd like the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Ivan Shucker to speak to you in a final manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57655	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So before I say anything about today's debate, I'd like to say that the government accepts these three amendments to the HDZ Club that you got on the bench so I suggest that they become an integral part of this text. So, the debate that began quite badly later has slowed down, but I don't think that at the end of today's debate we came up with an answer that should be done on the expenditure side, nor did anyone in their debate say. But it's a good thing we started to deal with each other and argue. There were several discussions, first of all, that I think of Professor Grčić and, in a certain way, a colleague of Linic about what he should do with the economy and perhaps what we should try to do to revive the economy, to increase investments that have practically died in Croatia and thus improve the revenue side of the budget and thus solve this current problem. However, a very interesting rhetoric is now a colleague, if I may say so, we've known Leko for a long time, in his debate, he says that the state is in charge of 25 billion and has been through its channels 25 billion. I don't understand why in our parliamentary debates, we are false. What is part of this 25 billion government debt, and what is the debt of the business sector, banks, citizens, etc. In that 25 billion. It's always been like that, and I'm a colleague of Zgrebec when I was arguing when the opposition representative always spoke that way. I've never messed with what's public debt, which is the central debt of the state. We can also argue about how much someone had a deficit. Let us take information from the Croatian National Bank on public debt growth since 2000, so we can see everything. But the situation is the way it is, and today's debate is best shown that it's not good to slave sometimes with political ideas, it's not good, because they're basically not leading us anywhere. But if we did our best to create an anti-enterprise climate in Croatia, unfortunately that's what's happening. From these or those day-to-day political needs, politicians support something, and then we are surprised when capital that is otherwise a very timid beast, and these last year and a half, especially when it chooses where it will go, is passing and bypassing Croatia. I also mentioned in the opening part of Warsaw, I can mention... in Istria, I can mention a number of other projects, not entering who's wrong, but let's start with what kind of picture we're leaving behind. [[You don't understand.]] What foreign investor will come to invest in Croatia. We can discuss tax policy, but look at the traffic over the Zagreb Stock Exchange, 13.8. 3 billion and 300 million gross traffic. What's the profit? What would you tax me, what would you take? We can look at what happened with the profit tax when it was a dividend. What was the income from the profit tax, how much the profit tax was drawn through some other channels, and how much after the dividend was abolished. On the other hand, let's not say on the one hand that we should encourage investment and foreign investors, and on the other hand impose some tax obligations on them. I think it's something that just doesn't work out, but today's debate has shown that the government has hit the budget rebalance, because there were no fundamental remarks. I'm not going to be mean and I'm not going to talk about some kind of entrepreneurial activity on Brijuni and transportation from island to island at the expense of the state, but this one, and I'm not going to laugh at it, but there's a Bible stone that throws away the one that's sinless first. So, colleagues and colleagues, thank you for the debate. I'm ready for my colleague Linic, both with you and with Professor Linic. I'm going to sit down and discuss some ideas, though, because I think it's in everyone's interest to do something, and I'm saying that the catering activities on Brijuni were probably very... Thank you very much. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57656	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. The amendments can be submitted by tomorrow, Friday at 10 o'clock, August 28th, until 10 o'clock who intends to submit the amendments. So until tomorrow at 10 o'clock. We will vote when the conditions are met and that would be Monday in our opinion on 30 August at 13:00. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I welcome you all, as well as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, Vice President Šuker and Minister of the Republic of Croatia. We are going to vote on the points discussed at the session of Thursday 26 August 2010. Please engage to determine the quorum. Score. 122, so we can decide. We move to the 2010 National Budget of the Republic of Croatia Proposal for Amendments and Supplements of the Croatian Waters and the Croatian Privatisation Fund. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Boris Miletic, the HDZ Representatives' Club and joint representatives Boro Grubisic and Ivan Drmic. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives and did not vote on it because it became an integral part of the proposal for an amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I would like the proposal's representative to make a statement on the other amendments by MP Boris Miletic and MP Bora Grubisic, Ivan Drmic. Mr. Shucker, Vice President and Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57658	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Boris Miletic's amendment cannot be accepted by the government, but by the end of the year we will try to find an opportunity to help, whether it will be from the current reserve or otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57659	Thank you. Mr. Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57660	If that's the case, then I don't think there's any need to debate or vote on this amendment. I'll take your word for it. You all know that it's an elementary accident, that the school burned down overnight, and I believe that other natural disasters solve that you'll also have hearing about the City of Pula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57661	So the amendment has been withdrawn, right? So this amendment was withdrawn by Mr Boris Miletic. We have an amendment from Mr Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57662	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment because already in the 2010 budget rebalancing proposal, there is an increase in activity, incentives in agriculture, production, market intervention of 616 million 632 thousand 959 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57663	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57664	Mr. Minister, in the division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, it is proposed to increase subsidies to farmers by 616 million as you said. Since the damages suffered in agricultural production are therefore due to the issue of autumn crops, it is therefore necessary to provide the means for the payment of incentives in the maximum amount in accordance with the law. So it's that 177 million kuna. The reduction of funds for market investments, the abolition of operational programmes, the failure of capital investments, as well as the conscious transfer of commitments from 2008 to 2009 in 2010 and the non-acceptance of commitments related to capital investments in agriculture lead to the collapse of Croatian agriculture. That's why we've been looking for those extra 400 million kuna redistributions, and you put in that position 300, and the debt of the state for capital investment is more than 800 million kuna. And our amendment is going to $400 million and your 300 is still not enough to settle that debt from 2008 and 2009. I wanted to point out that the adoption of the Republic of Croatia's 2010 budget did not accept proposals or the HDSB amendment on increasing the necessary funds for agriculture, so there was a protest of peasants. Today, for a full eight, nine months after you place those 616 million kunas and 300 million kunas for capital donations. So obviously we were right, but here's the vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57665	Thank you. Who's in favor of this amendment that the government doesn't normally accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would like to stress that it is the basis of Article 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for amending and supplementing the budget requires most of all MPs, so at least 77. I am voting on the amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. Please engage and let's vote. Check that your devices are working. The result? What? It's not working for you. Okay. I find that, most of the vote, 81 votes in favour, no abstentions, and 60 against the adoption of the amendment and the addition, i.e. the rebalancing of the state budget, together with the amendments adopted. Therefore, the amendments and additions to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 together with the amendment adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent and financial plans to extra budget users. First, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2010 amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters. The amendment to this decision was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the HDZ Club and did not vote on it because it became an integral part of the proposal for a decision in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the 2010 Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This decision and granting consent to the decision was accepted by most votes, 82 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 58 against. Then we have a decision to agree on amendments and additions to the Croatian Privatisation Fund's 2010 financial plan. The amendment to this decision was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the HDZ Club and did not vote on it, as it became an integral part of the draft decision in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2010. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes are 83 votes in favour, no abstentions and 58 against a decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the Croatian Privatisation Fund's 2010 financial plan, together with the amendment adopted. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Assembly to conclude: The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out, together with the proposing representatives, a revision of the text of amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and to amend and supplement the financial plans before their publication in the National Journal. I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the vote is 82 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 41 against the proposed conclusion. We move to - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010, second reading, P.Z. No. 614 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. This law will be discussed by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Internal Policy and the Committee on Health. You received reports from these committees at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivan Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57667	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are several provisions that we need to mention, which change, above all, the budget reserves are reduced from 270 to 220 million, that is, Article 1. Article 2 shall ensure legal protection against the first-degree solution of the Ministry of Finance on the return of the wrong or more paid revenue, by launching a administrative dispute in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Government of the Republic of Croatia may give consent to the borrowing of units of local, regional (regional) self-government that have shown excess operating income, up to 2.3% of total operating income of all units of local, regional (regional) self-government shown in the financial report. These amendments and additions to that restriction exclude units of local and regional (regional) self-government for energy efficiency projects with the aim of saving energy and improving energy efficiency. Article 4 changes the level of debt from 28.5 billion to 34.6 billion kuna. Current payments, the main government debt will be 18.9 billion, at 19, from 18.3 to 19.1 billion kuna. The total amount of out-of-counter debt is increased from 1.2 billion to 1.4 billion, and the current repayment of the principal debt is reduced from 448 million to 378.1 million kuna. Articles 5 and 6 shall allow the competent ministries, with the agreement of the Minister of Finance, to write down the criteria and means of using grants for which the purpose of use has not been established, and the own revenue incurred by the budgetary users in the performance of the business on the market and in market conditions. Article 7 of the debt to the State may also be postponed by one month, and the payment of the debt may be paid up to 10 months in accordance with Article 68. The Budget Act, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulations to be adopted on the basis of the same article. These amendments allow the Government to postpone the exceptional payment of the debt, grant the payment period for a longer period than mentioned above. This applies to public donations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57668	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Ljubo Jurcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57669	Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. As soon as the rebalancing is done, this law should be amended to comply with all those items resulting from the non-income or expenditure being carried out as planned. However, we generally conduct this debate when it comes to the budget, when it comes to public finances, when the Ministry of Finance is present. However, we have come into a situation that actually the Ministry of Finance can't have much influence on this but simply determines the situation and then we here confirm this situation and so is this current rebalancing. The revenue is what it is, the expenditure is what it is, and they changed the items. As a result, the deficit is increasing, and the final consequence is the public debt deficit and what is burdening the Croatian state. 5, 6 years ago, we may have been able to talk and such discussions were by the SDP and by me on behalf of the club that therefore with public finances and a different public finance policy we can ensure that we do not get into this situation, but today our situation in Croatia, the world is slowly recovering, difficult for us to change the structure of the budget by dealing only with the budget. The budget has both its own income and its own expenditure side both today and on the income and expendable side of the Ministry of Finance, in my opinion, cannot have a more significant impact. This is no longer just about public finances policy, but about the overall policy in the government or economic policy. First of all, it is often said, and this is now the mantra of the existing government that we need to find something where we can save more. It's a defensive approach, I think we need to start talking, we need to find something we can do and where we can increase the production that Col. Slavko Linic used to talk about. In fact, we have completely lost foreign income control, and incomes do not depend on the Ministry of Finance, not as significantly as before, but today much less, but on the ministries dealing with the economy. Both economics and energy and agriculture and construction, etc. But we don't see that policy here. In fact, when we look at what steps economic policy is taking today's public finances, they'd be closest somewhere on step three. Today, Croatia must decide or Croatian economic policy what it will do and how it will work and, to that end, the answer to that question has been given by all governments of the smart states of these G20 in this crisis, and we have been in crisis since the transition of the 1990s and we are always avoiding this issue and today we are faced with whether we are going to solve this issue or not. If we solve this issue, what we will do, who we will work with, who we will work for, then de facto we will start solving Croatian economic problems, social and then financial problems. The second policy that is necessary for this one where we will work and that answers that question gives us regional policy. One policy and another is looking for Europe. This is not what Europe is asking for because of us to develop us, but simply Europe wants to see what will be done in Croatia and how it will be done. Whether to work successfully or to fail that Europe doesn't care, they just know, they want to know what we're going to do. And whether we succeed or fail it will feel on our skin. The best example is that of these EU members who are both 10 and 15 years in the EU, so they have not been saved from the crisis in the EU. Let's say Greece is, often referred to here as an example, which has long been in the EU and has not saved it. The EU couldn't save her from the crisis. We have another example of Hungary that came in as an example of a transition country in the EU, and in 2006 it was in crisis. Standard down 30%. What saves them from the EU and the monetary fund does not save them so that the Hungarians keep the same standard but saves them in order to save their capital and their resources. The Hungarians will live as they organize themselves. No one asks about Romania and Bulgaria. Here and there we hear they cut their wages 10, 20 percent. So it depends on our government and our policy how we will live and how we will have the final result in the budget. The short solution today for Croatian economic, social and fiscal problems is that they have to have an industrial policy to do, a regional policy where to work, then fiscal policy how to finance it, and ultimately monetary policy comes to produce enough money of quality for the economy and citizens so that all this can be financed. We have completely amnested monetary policy as if it were, in fact, it is not about the situation in the Croatian economy. However, it has its hands tied because there are no other answers to what to do, how to do and where to work, how to finance then to make it happen. Secondly, as far as expenditure goes, I'm not exactly certain that these expenditures can be reduced. They're public services or they're people who have jobs to do. And for rationalizing yes, but here is the problem of the efficiency of these public services. However, whether a lot of employees did, it is likely, is always the result of public activities. We have a problem with how busy people are in Croatia at all. Namely, the Croatian problem is that for the past 50, 60 years we have never been able to create enough jobs for our working age. We on average in Croatia of 60, if we say that the 60s have completed post-war reconstruction and some stabilisation, we are chronically lacking over 400 thousand jobs. And the working contingent in Croatia is somewhere around 55% of the total population, and the state in order to function as normally should have about 60.65%. We have a working contingent of about 2 million and 800 thousand people, we reject schoolboys, disabled people, we get to 2 million and 200. But our working contingent is now officially employed, unemployed somewhere around a million and 700 thousand people. And that is Croatia's fundamental problem. We can't, we couldn't secure. There are jobs, not the task of the private sector or the private sector should be allowed to work, but the private sector works for its shareholders, and the state works for its shareholders, and the shareholders of the state are all citizens of the Croatian state. The other day, there was a story that we needed to bring in the workforce. So it's not the state to secure some workforce, it's the state to hire its citizens. What I can do, etc. In short, the problem is not so much of the public administration's height, but in my view, the problem is a much more fundamentally small number of employees in the productive sector. Freezed public spending, I wouldn't exactly accept it. Public expenditures are large or small, they are always seen in terms of GDP, growth. So it could be an alibi and politics. This may have been going in good faith, I think it was suggested by fellow Maric to freeze spending, but it is an alibi and policy not to work on economic growth policy. So if we have a policy of economic growth and economic growth of 3.4.5% then let the public sector grow 1.2%. But the bottom line is that the gross domestic product is growing faster than these expenditures or budgets, not freezing the budget. It's just connected. Also when we say we have high wages and low wages. No, they always depend on productivity. In America, two, three, four, five times bigger, but productivity is higher, so you can always see the ratio of productivity and pay. Another problem with our budget planning is macroeconomic analysis. We simply don't have the basis for quality macroeconomic analysis. That doesn't apply to the Ministry of Finance again. Namely, as corporate accounting exists, there is the accounting of the state and there is a system of national accounts adopted by the United Nations, the IMF, the European Commission, etc. And we have a home product account and it's global. However, we don't have a financial transaction account the way it should be to see where the money is, who's got the money, who's got it, who's got it, who's got it, who's got it, who's got it, who's got it, who's got it, who's got it. We don't know the structure of the economy, and when we estimate that there will be movement in 2010 we have a feeling, some data, but we don't really have how much more I know the table of instructions, the way of the Croatian economy to see what the Croatian economy that the spending sector, from whom it takes and to whom it gives. If we knew that, we could do different budgets more precisely and also assess the budget. And the next thing you know, we don't have a national wealth account or a capital account, which is a list of all capital assets on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of who it belongs to. And at the end of this story, what's actually a macroeconomic problem in Croatia. We've had a deficit so far not only for the state, we've had a population deficit. The population has spent more than it earns. The state had much more consumption than production. We have that basic thing, we had an investment at some point 30, 32% of gross domestic product, and domestic savings was 23.4.5%. We were directly in charge of investment abroad, because we didn't simply have enough of our own accumulations. And then there's the problem, and now the structure of these investments comes out. It doesn't matter who made those investments. The very fact that we can't repay our country as a debt state that we took five, six, seven, eight years ago, but we have to re-indemnify ourselves to repay that debt is evidence that we had the wrong investments. But we've had our last years and sports halls, we've had these and monuments, and so on. Mostly too much money went into unproductive property. And today we have the consequence of all this. The deficit is not dangerous and we often compare ourselves here with Greece with these, those countries, there is no similarity. Also compare the level of Croatian public debt with another country. You can't do the same thing. Let's say Japan as one of the most developed countries in the world, another economy in the world, how much do you think public debt is? 200% of gross domestic product. As far as Croatia is concerned, it says in this 48%, now it's going to be a little bit more. And that doesn't mean we're better than Japan, right? Europe increased its public debt somewhere from 30 to 50%, the deficit went below 2% to 6.7%. The other day there was a story about the banks suggesting something... now it doesn't matter whether or not it's a German model. Well, that's a little unfair, actually. The Croatian economy has absolutely no similarities with Germany, neither by size, nor by efficiency, nor by structure. But also the Croatian banking sector has absolutely no similarities with German. And now that such suggestions come, they can be motivated by something else, not just a solution to a problem. Otherwise, when it comes to borrowing, it's not just a problem for itself. Now, it's not political, but it's professorial, often the Deputy Prime Minister will say, so the government has 2003, fourth, I don't know which high deficit. That's right. But it's a good Croatian deficit, both this and that, that's how we look at it. However, there are cycles in the development of the economy. In the first stage, the country is when it starts to develop, like Croatia is a young debtor, so it lends, invests, builds production capacities, then it cannot repay those debts, rejects the future. Then he becomes a more mature debtor, then he can reject and repay his debts, then in one situation he becomes a believer. The problem is that after 20 years, Croatia is still in a young debtor's situation. And that is Croatia's fundamental problem. And finally, I'm out of time, so to get back, I said industrial policy, regional policy, fiscal policy, monetary policy. That 200% of the public debt in Japan is funded from Japan. Greek debt, they have the euro so they'll save the euro, we don't have the euro so they won't save the euro, but we still have the Croatian National Bank, we still have the sovereignty to have the possibility and the right to produce money. The Croatian National Bank is still Croatian. It's called public debt monetization. Why don't we take that public debt on ourselves? It's a question, it's just going to answer, you can't print money. We're not printing money. This money that we print today and cover our own public debt, tomorrow we'll have to cover our own goods and services, and then we'll go back to the first question to which goods, which services, and the answer to that question is industrial policy, not fiscal policy. Unfortunately, I'm not here to defend the Ministry of Finance, but I really see the problem that way. Money doesn't have an internal value, money is as strong as a real economy. Money is a picture of the economy. Pancho Villa, it's late at the end, this goes beyond that, Pancho Villa when he came to power he said print the money. As much as you can, let the people have as many as they want. He asks Makari how much money you're gonna pay us to print, he says take as much money as you want, big bankers don't, no, pay us in gold because that money they print doesn't have value if it's alone... Money has as much value as the value of our economy and money is not wealth but what we produce is wealth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57670	Thank you. Thank you very much. And since there are no more reports, I'm closing the debate. We'll also vote Monday at 11:00. ... 13 o'clock, 13 o'clock vote so we don't forget, 1:00 p.m. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We move on to the second point The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. It's a second reading, P.Z. No. 614. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 83 votes in favour, nothing abstentioned and 54 against. The Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government proposes to the Assembly to reach a conclusion which reads as follows: It proposes to allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by means of an appropriate act, local and regional (regional) self-government units to exceptionally benefit from laws and sub-legislative acts which are prescribed exclusively for the purpose of the use of non-taxable incomes of those units and for other purposes of their self-government, provided that it does not question the carrying out of the activity financed from these revenues. Mr. Vice President Shucker will be willing to make a statement on the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57672	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since this is about the provisions regulated by the Law on Municipal Activity, it was an agreement with MP Mršić that this conclusion should be withdrawn, and that we do, in practice, find opportunities in the amendments to the Law on the Communist Economy to find the possibility to help local self-government units with the fact that we will have to install instruments so that these coins are not all spent on wages and something like that but that some of this money remains for the municipal infrastructure. I think we agreed on that. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57673	Thank you. Mr. Lobster.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57674	Here, on behalf of the board, we withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57675	Thank you. This proposal has been withdrawn. Moving to 3. Determination of the total level of expenditure of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2011 and 2012. The government's conclusion is proposed: "This conclusion was reached by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at its meeting held on 24 August 2010 on the basis of Article 30. Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Article 39 Budget law." The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a hearing that has not been reported, so I'm closing the debate. We'll also vote Monday at 1:00. I wish you a pleasant weekend and thank you, we were more or less all tolerable, with one exception.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57678	Dear Mr. President, I'm requesting a five-minute break for the club to agree on a vote on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57679	I'm setting a 10 minute break, so 10 minutes means 13:30, we're going to continue the session. That's exactly what the HNS Attorney's Club is looking for. And Cain. I didn't see it. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr Zoran Milanovic will address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57681	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, respected Prime Minister. We will not support this conclusion because we think it is unnecessary, that it is politically illogical and that it was willing to change anything that would have happened by now. This is what it's like to conclude that in the next August there will be beautiful and sunny you and those days. They'll be just like them. It's gonna be morning, it's gonna be noon, and it's gonna be night. It's gonna be light and it's gonna be dark. What time will it be, but you know it without me, right? It'll probably be cloudy, more or less cloudy. So this conclusion is precedentd in the current practice of the Parliament. He's the one to be brought in. I said why we wouldn't support this conclusion. Political will and determination and courage are manifested in situations like this. That's unfortunately what you failed to do. And to promise something for 2011, 2012, 2013 is least unserious. But the most inconclusive thing was to miss out on this chance we could take, and we didn't take advantage of it. So, the Parliament can really draw all sorts of conclusions. The very fact that this has never been done in this way speaks very much in itself. I'm not saying, genius ideas are born, practice gives birth to them, but this isn't one of those ideas. So you could show the courage and determination of this species. For weeks, it's been raining, you've missed that opportunity, and this conclusion just doesn't hold water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57682	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57683	I thank Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister with ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-HSU club will not support this conclusion because it assumes that in 2011 and 2012 we will not move from place. So there will be no economic recovery. Secondly, some 4.5 billion for 2012, i.e. 609m euros, as far as Croatia will have to participate in the EU budget in 2012. So that conclusion is not related to planet Earth, not to Croatian reality. So we can't support this conclusion on behalf of the HNS and HSU club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57684	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57685	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Prime Minister, Well, I don't think this government can for future generations, so neither can those in power, and HDZ won't, determine budget sizes. You're not ready for anything, gentlemen, and others would determine these budget sizes. And it's just not right. If that conclusion should apply to someone, then let it apply to 2011, but it cannot apply to 2012. Although I am afraid that, unfortunately in 2012, it can hardly be better than it is now and it is difficult for those 122 billion kunas to be collected that year. I know there's no one in this assembly who wouldn't want this country the best. However, it is also a fact that we know this country under whose authority it is simply destroyed. And we know who destroyed her. Tax sizes. In 2005, the budget amounted to €87.9 billion; in 2006, it was already $96 billion; in 2010 it was 5.8% in 2009 and 2.5% in the first two quarters of this year it was €122 billion and €340 million. Or in 2010, we'll raise $18.2 billion, and up to 122.4 billion, we're 14 billion short. What I've been saying since 15th of July, actually for months, we're in charge of 26 billion kuna by 15th of July. By the end of the year, we're still down 6.1 billion kuna, and I'm guessing we'll be in charge of that amount on the domestic money market in banks that we've threatened either money or taxes. Now, what's the point? We ate ourselves. We spend about 20 billion kunas more than possible. Between 2006 and 2010, Mr. Hebrang, we spent 90 billion kuna somewhere, I didn't read it last time, I didn't read it, I didn't read it. 90 billion kunas more than earned. That's what we're in charge of, and we're in charge, and we're back on the loan. The 90 billion kuna we spent in those four and five years didn't cost the war or the consequences of the war. And keep that in mind. Of course, any glory to those who have suffered has given part of themselves to the Homeland, but I repeat, in the last five years, 90 billion kuna has been spent more than earned. I know it was meant to be done, gentlemen of the HDZ, in order to win the 2007 elections. This is Sanader's master performance, but these social pensions, union thresholds have been raised, and today we gentlemen are where we are, banging on the benches or not banging. Unfortunately, you were aware of it, you knew what was going to happen, and now you say in 2012 it won't be spent anymore. No, unfortunately, it won't be spent anymore, but this year for interest, let's say it goes 6 billion kuna, next year the ministers will go somewhere around 8 billion kunas, just for interest. In 2012, maybe 10 billion kuna. The foreign debt has increased from 77 to 100% in two years, from 42 to 52% in public debt, and what is worst in this government's term of office from 1. Seven last year to one. Seven this year, this country has lost 89 thousand 19 jobs. And by the end of your government's term, there will be at least 89 thousand and 19 jobs left. That's 160 grand. It's not Nostradamus to say what. 150 thousand jobs will remain Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57686	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57687	... Only in the last two years. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] And then why don't you tell me how to proceed? With these conclusions, we certainly can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57688	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor will declare the proposed conclusions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57689	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Representatives and the Gentlemen Representatives. The government continues to insist, of course, that the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, draws this conclusion, namely this decision to accept this proposal of the Government of Croatia which essentially contains what most of the MPs in the Croatian Parliament discussed when the budget rebalancing was debated, which is that the expenditure side of the Croatian budget for 2011, 2012 does not increase, therefore, that the expenditure party does not increase. The income of course is not mentioned in this conclusion, and we are confident, that after all the measures implemented and the implementation of the economic recovery programme and the revenue side will show anyway in the different world, first of all next year. I'm convinced by the end of this year. I will not, of course, answer to anyone or reply to anything, just because Mr Cain mentioned one HDZ party and the results in the next election, I will say and I think I have the right to do so, Mr Caine, Mr Caine, you will not decide who will win the next election and you will not thank God you decide what the result of the Croatian Democratic Community will be. Croatian voters will decide that. But I'm going back to this conclusion now. So, I think that since I can conclude that in the debate on rebalancing, we from the government have heard almost no concrete proposal on what it should do and where it should intervene on the expenditure side. We heard of course the principle debates. We believe that this is the conclusion where true courage and true determination are shown, because it is a proposal not to increase the expenditure side in the election year. And it would be very good, Madam Representatives and gentlemen, if we all had the same courage and determination and knowledge to accept such a conclusion, so that the expenditure side would not increase. But of course you can decide that and decide how you want. Finally, I would like to remind you that in addition to these decisions, we will, until the 2011 budget vote, prepare the Fiscal Responsibility Act for the first time in Croatia on your desks, according to which the law would apply for the next three years. So the second step in these efforts will be the Fiscal Responsibility Act, where we will also vote each one according to our conscience on responsibility for the budget but also for the future of Croatia. Therefore, Mr. President, the Government is not giving up on this conclusion and we are certainly asking for Parliament's vote and statement, so let's see if we are for decisive steps or if we are for standing in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57690	Thank you. ... Thank you. [[Applause.]] We have one correction, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57691	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that this is a government proposal. This isn't a government proposal. This is a proposal from the club representatives, so you don't even know it. This is a club proposal. So you don't know that either. Another false assumption is that this is how courage is manifested. This is a story of courage, not courage. And thirdly, I welcome the Fiscal Responsibility Act, for this speaker we've been proposing it for a little more than a year. It's all on its own. As an example, we cited Brazil and some other countries. You have a phonogram of Parliament. But it's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-08-26-0.u57692	It is true that the government has proposed this item of the agenda as well as these other two first ones. And whoever supports that, we know that the clubs we listed here are. However, for an extraordinary session that the government sent to the Croatian Parliament, these three points were in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. I would like to vote on the proposal for a conclusion that has been proposed jointly by representatives' clubs. Please, let's get involved and vote. Proposed, and the government suggested he enter the agenda. Here, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal for a conclusion has been accepted by most votes. 83 votes in favour, nothing abstentions and 59 against. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget has proposed a proposal for a decision but it is unconditional to vote on it, as we have just reached conclusions that are identical to the proposed decision. I note that materials for the next session have been delivered to the boxes, what has arrived so far. Both ladies and gentlemen, I hereby conclude the 19th extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. And I wish you a pleasant holiday these days until the next regular session. Thank you very much.
