ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55073	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Department with the Final Proposal of the Law. The basic reason and motive for why the Ministry of Interior proposed to the Government and the Government to the Parliament of this amendment and the addition of the Fire Department is to regulate the working time of firefighters. After the entry into force of the new Labour Act, which is in line with the European Directives and the European acquis, we have come into the situation that it was not possible to work in tours for more than eight hours during the night. Since the working hours of professional firefighters are organized in tours, 12, 24, 12, 48 hours by strict application of the Labour Act, the current way of carrying out fire work would be questioned and therefore, above all, professional firefighters have proposed to find a way to allow them to do their jobs in the current way or at the current rhythm. And that was the basic reason why it went into the proposal to amend and supplement this Law. There have been some other proposals, there have been some ideas and initiatives, however, since more institutions such as the State Administration for the Protection and Rescue of the Croatian Fire Department, public fire departments, voluntary fire companies, have been working on these minimal changes only, and in the autumn will likely go into the making of a new law. Otherwise, the Republic of Croatia, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has provided 334 million kuna through minimum fire standards this year for the work of public fire departments, 60 public fire departments employed by 223 professional firefighters operate in Croatia. In addition to these funds for decentralised funds through minimum fire standards, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided additional 35 million kunas for the summer fire season from which it is planned to finance an additional 1000 seasonal firefighters on the coast in case of need. In short, I will just say what the amendments to the Law in the proposed amendments and amendments to the Law are made to Article 1 amending Article 21 of the Age Limit in the case of first employment in public professional fire departments, that it is not a person over 30 years of age. In fact, the operational composition in professional units is getting older and has been the initiative and association of professional firefighters and firemen's trade unions to determine the age limit in the first job. It is also prescribed that priority in the employment relationship of firefighters under the same conditions is given to a person who has spent at least two years doing volunteer firework as well as a person who has served a military term. The Law also first introduced the definition of seasonal fire and practically that definition of seasonal fires provides a legal basis in the event of the need to engage these seasonal firefighters. Article 3 which is prescribed for a new Article 25a. the practical and regulation of what was most important to these amendments and additions to the Law is working time and this Article 3 is added to the new Article 25a. will allow firefighters to carry out their jobs in a way, i.e. by rhythm, and dynamics as so far in the 12-24-12-48 tours. Article 4 which has been amended is more precisely defined as the method of financing fire departments or the way in which the basis in the budgets of the local self-government units is calculated for the financing of firefighting. Article 5 is deleted from Article 48 which regulates the VAT issue and is in accordance with European Directive 2006/112. The EC and finally Article 6 are prescribed that all those presently in the requalification programme and older than 30 years will be able to be employed even after the entry into force of this law even though they are more than 30 years old. These are practically all amendments proposed by these amendments and amendments to the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55074	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55075	President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed amendments and additions to the Fire Department are subject to several issues of importance for fire. First of all, it's a matter of working time for a fireman. As the provision of Article 51 of this Labour Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2010, obliges the employer to establish a working time schedule for the nightworker who is under special danger or difficult physical or mental effort in such a way that the worker does not work longer than 8 hours in the 24-hour period in which he works at night. The trade union of state and local officials and subsistence officers of the Republic of Croatia pointed to the problems created by this provision in the organisation of the working time of firefighters, and initiated an amendment to the Fire Department in order to correct this issue in an appropriate manner for this activity. So far, the work of the firemen has been organized in a way to line up 12 hours in shifts, then 24 hours free, 12 hours again, and 48 hours rest. According to the regulation of working time adopted by the new Labour Act, the operational readiness of fire departments for fire intervention is significantly reduced, and they are forced to reduce time for training and teaching. In addition to reduced operational preparedness, material costs are increased in view of the regulation of work in shifts of 8 hours. Due to the greater number of shifts and greater regular controls of the correctness of fire-fighting technique, the use of the same and the reduction of its usefulness and the increase of material costs in that part. In view of the fact that the redesign of the mode of work in the fire department is causing major difficulties from professional to material, it is necessary to determine these amendments to the Fire Department Act as a special regulation governing the activity of the fireman, the issue of night work, or work on shifts, tours to determine differently than the general regulation of the Labour Act. Another issue addressed by this law is the conditions for the schedule to the jobs of a professional firefighter. Article 21 of the applicable Fire Department Act lays down specific conditions for the conduct of professional firemen's activities. Amendments to the article as a newspaper prescribe that a fireman with medium professional training may not be older than 30 years at the time of his first employment. Since this has not been prescribed so far, the jobs of professional firefighters have been employed by elderly people. Fire departments were growing older, and this resulted in an increase in the percentage of professional firefighters who could not be satisfied at the medical examination to do their jobs. In this way, some fire departments have up to 10% of the personnel who are incapable of going out on fire interventions, and these people cannot find a suitable job in the fire department. This condition is particularly alarming in small units. It is also predicted that persons who are in force by the day of entry into force of this law, acquired the interest of a fireman or a fireman or a fireman, or are currently taking part in a requalification for those interests, do not have to meet the conditions relating to the age of first employment in the professional fireman’s business. Therefore, if the above is not prescribed in an unfavourable situation, the persons who have previously acquired those occupations would be brought to the attention of the 30-year-olds, i.e. those who have not been prescribed, or those who have been overqualified for the interest of a fireman and a fireman who is on the same application without special age conditions. Furthermore, the condition of medium professional preparation for all types of secondary schools is expanded. Under the current law, it's only been a technical direction so far. The paper is also that people who have spent at least two years doing volunteer firemen's work and those who have served a military term have the advantage of employment. A circle of persons considered to be firemen with special powers and responsibilities shall be extended, and the conditions for their appointment or the timetable for those posts shall be specified more precisely. There's also a seasonal firefighter. In the current law so far, the term "season fireman" has not been contained. So the Fire Department Act is complemented by regulations on who can do the jobs of a seasonal firefighter. The term "season fireman" means a person who is adequately trained and equipped, who is temporarily engaged in the conclusion of an appropriate contract to carry out fire extinguishing operations, primarily open space during the summer fire season on the coast. In this respect, it is important to point out that only a person who fulfils the minimum conditions laid down in Article 22 may be engaged in the temporary performance of those transactions. The Fire Department Act. This means that it has the prescribed physical and mental capacity and is qualified to carry out these tasks. Another issue to be addressed by amending this law are the financing provisions and the VAT. on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, and for the purpose of harmonising the provisions of the Fire Department Act relating to the financing of firefighting with other regulations in the jurisdiction of that ministry, Article 45 of the applicable law, which provides for the establishment of funds for the financing of the regular activities of voluntary fire departments and fire departments, is amended more precisely as to what constitutes the budgetary basis of the city, municipality and county from which funds for the financing of the function of the fire department are provided. In addition, as proposed by the Ministry of Finance and in order to comply with Directive 2006/112 EC, paragraph 2 of the applicable Article 48, which stipulates that public fire departments are voluntary fire companies and fire departments in full release of VAT payments, according to invoices paid for the purchase of equipment, materials and services to carry out their activities. Since that Directive does not know such a possibility, it was necessary to comply with that provision. Yesterday, a presentation of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue in which the fire department took place at a meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. And I can say that the preparations for this fire season have been successfully completed. That's also what a few indicators are talking about. So, in the first 4 months of this year, the number of fires and the burned area decreased during the first 4 months of 2010 compared to the average values of the previous period. Here, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support these amendments and the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55076	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55077	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the amendment and addition of the Fire Department Act to the urgent procedure. The reason is, of course, the harmonisation of certain articles due to the need to prepare for the upcoming fire season. The most important issue to be addressed by this law is the issue of night work by firefighters, i.e. work on shifts, as defined in Article 3. Article 3 is proposed to add a new Article 25a, which would prescribe the way firefighters work in terms of shift work or work in tours. The new Labour Act stipulates that professional firefighters cannot work for more than 8 hours in a time period of 24 hours in which they work at night, so this provision requires the entire fire department to switch from shift system 12-24, 12-48 to system twice 8 in first shift, twice 8 in second shift and twice 8 in third shift and twice 24 days off. This new working time, due to frequent shift changes, reduces the operational preparedness of firefighters, which affects the efficiency of fire-fighting intervention and also increases the material costs caused by an increase in the cost of transport to and from work and fuel, oil and equipment costs due to a greater number of inspections of the correctness and readiness for fire-fighting vehicles and equipment. So of course we at the HSS Club agree that this article was necessary to change. But, Mr. Secretary of State, we'd have another proposal. Since sometimes intervention can be longer than 12 hours, and I think that on that trail you spoke to the Croatian Fire Department, our proposal would be to make further changes in Article 3 and I will read that article 3. "In order to maintain the operational readiness of firemen and fire-fighting techniques at high level, and to stop fires, to save people and property the length of work of professional firefighters can be longer than 8 hours in a 24-hour period in which they work at night." We would therefore delete that part of the sentence that says "but no longer than 12 hours of work during that period", because as I have already said sometimes interventions can be longer than 12 hours. Since these days, too, we are discussing the Labour Law, perhaps this amendment can also be resolved in Article 3. The labour law which would establish an exemption for firefighters, but I would certainly ask you to take care of it and to comment on that part in your final address. So I repeat, Article 3 should definitely be changed. This proposal is good, but in terms of improvement and precision, we think it would be important to respect this proposal from the HSS and Croatian Fire Department. Article 4 is amended as follows: Article 45 of the Law is amended in such a way as to specify more precisely what makes it a budgetary basis for the municipality, the city and the county from which funds are provided to finance the function of firefighting. As a result of the application of the Fire Department, there have been a lot of doubts about the issues which the incomes are entering, and which do not enter into the basis for the calculation of the fire department, we believe it is very good to prescribe this correctly. However, we think that it would be necessary to do this even more precisely and in more detail because it is common cases that individual units of local self-government calculate the percentage of the allocation for fire on the basis of their own budget, and the higher amount of the budget means a smaller percentage of the issue, and then allocate funds on the basis of a reduced budget. In order not to do so, it may be necessary to define this further Article 4 more precisely in order to say that municipalities, cities and counties calculate the percentage of the allocation for fire-fighting communities and voluntary fire-fighting companies after reducing their own budget for the amount of revenue referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. Article 5 then refers naturally to VAT. In Article 48, paragraph 2 is deleted, according to which public fire departments, voluntary fire departments, fire departments are completely exempt from paying value added tax by invoices paid for the purchase of equipment, materials and services to carry out their activities. I have to say, of course, that erasing VAT returns for fire departments isn't something we're particularly happy about. According to the applicable Fire Department Act, voluntary fire departments and fire departments were exempt from paying value added tax for the purchase of equipment, materials and services to carry out fire work, which we think is quite logical. The draft provisions on the refund of value added tax above are deleted with a reason that it does not comply with Directive 2006/112/EC. We believe that this will have its financial consequences, especially for poor voluntary fire companies and fire departments, which will further affect their operational readiness. Therefore, by depriving these funds that have so far been achieved by exempting from paying value added tax, it is possible that some voluntary fire companies will be threatened. If indeed this amendment to the Fire Department must be implemented in order to comply with the European Union Directive, we think that it may need to consider delaying the effect of Croatia's accession to the European Union if this is possible. Namely, we have often talked, here and here is the vice president of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Jarnjak who was personally involved in the talks about the new Fire Department Act as I am. We were in a meeting together and in the government. A different system of fire financing was discussed. That's what I'm saying in the context of this VAT, and that's when we said that voluntary fire companies and full firepower on the ground might work, that 153 million kunas should be singled out, and we talked about what model is best. Of course, this financial crisis makes it difficult to expect that this issue will be put on the table and will be resolved at the moment. However, in the context of the abolition of VAT returns to fire companies, it may be necessary to consider that this amount is being redistributed to municipalities and cities that do not have public units, i.e. which are poorer. So that the return of the State will be reinvested in the fire department. Because we at the HSS Club think that these changes and supplements are welcome, that they are necessary for the system to work. But we also advocate that the issue of firepower is not solved by fire measures, but by a complete solution. Which means we really think it's a good time to start making a whole and new Fire Department with an emphasis on two things that we've been talking about for a long time. So, it's evenly funded by the state budget fire department for all local self-government units and that's the issue that's been discussed for a long time, about which there's still no agreement and that's the question that the Croatian Fire Department's proposal to be a competent fire department at the state level. In fact, the state is now investing 340 million kunas for fire in larger municipalities and cities. They could put in brackets those richer units of local self-government and result in an uneven degree of fire protection and constant pressure from municipalities and cities to establish public fire stations. And the question is how many new demands of certain municipalities and cities to establish public fire departments are already being made. Because starting a public fire department means getting money from the state. Our position in the HSS Club is that all units of local self-government should be provided with minimal funds as well as those cities that have public fire departments and that this is the only way that the fire system really works on the ground. Since 1990, the function or liability of fire work has been reduced from state level to local level. So, in fact, in 2000, when a new law on fire and responsibility was passed and the function of fire is in the jurisdiction of local self-government units. Some local self-government units perform the function through professional fire departments, some by voluntary means. But the fact is that all units of local self-government since 2000 have been responsible for the implementation of this function, until 2000, they had no responsibility because it was on the MUP. It is also a fact that some units of local self-government finance the implementation of this function, while some do not finance what is not logical and just since in this group the majority of municipalities and cities in the area of special state care and island are. In the Republic of Croatia, 20 fire-fighting communities of the county and the fire-fighting community of the city of Zagreb operate in which, directly or through the fire-fighting communities of municipalities, cities and counties, 1880 voluntary and 95 professional fire-fighting units are joined. Operational fire membership is a total of 60563 firefighters, of whom 55517 volunteer firemen are territorial volunteer firemen. 2344 professional firemen of public fire departments. 1694 Voluntary firemen of voluntary fire departments in the economy. 784 professional firemen of professional fire departments in the economy, and 224 professional firefighters who act as a professional core as part of 82 voluntary fire departments. It is a large and respectable army of people who truly deserve our unreserved absolute support at all times. In addition, 15200 members of the fire departments and more than 135 000 spare honorary members and veterans operate in voluntary fire companies. Another 57 units of local self-government do not have a single fire department of which of the seven coastal counties, 50 units of local self-government, so 87% has not established their own fire unit, which we do not think is good and should be dealt with. In 2009, a total of 41435 fire interventions were recorded in the Republic of Croatia, of which 15489 interventions were fired and there were 6391 technical interventions and 16971 other interventions. In the Republic of Croatia, the trend continues, as in other European countries where the percentage of technical and other interventions recorded significant growth and rarely represent less than 80% of the total interventions. A large number of fire interventions suggest fire hazards caused by global warming, abandoning the rural population, as well as certain organisational and financial problems in the fire protection system. In particular, the coastal counties of Split-Dalmatia, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Primorje-Gorskinska recorded more than 22000 fire interventions, which is more than 50% of the total number of fire interventions in the Republic of Croatia. This data clearly points to extreme fire hazards in central Dalmatia and other activities carried out by firefighters. Analysing fire interventions in 10 counties, the number of voluntary firefighters involved is higher than the number of professional firefighters involved, indicating the fact that volunteering is the force to be counted upon in the event of an open-air fire. In the case of technical interventions, of course only in 4 counties, a number of interventions by voluntary fire departments have been reported, indicating that they need to be trained more strongly and technically equipped and that they need to be more involved in technical and other interventions. I would like to say here and mention since I speak on behalf of the HSS Club, that the first voluntary fire companies were just founded by the HSS brothers Radic and I am glad that here and all representatives of the HSS club are members of voluntary fire companies in their places. I want to thank all the firefighters and professionals and volunteers from this pay phone, and of course, especially volunteers for investing in their spare time to save people and property. Because today, when a person looks less and less at another man’s volunteer work is something to be commended and appreciated. They also raise young people in whom they develop a competitive spirit, but they also teach them how to be human. The HSS representative club will support the adoption of the Fire Department Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55078	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55079	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here, let me, on behalf of the SDP Club, give a review and a view regarding the proposed amendments and additions to the Fire Department Act and, at the very beginning, say that the SDP will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Fire Department Act. The proposed amendments and additions to the Fire Department, here is the 6th month, the third week, have come to the agenda and I can express my satisfaction since I am a firefighter myself that this has come now, but they say everything within the deadline is never too late, or in time. By 30.06, public fire departments, or anyone who works professionally in voluntary fire, had to comply with the Labour Act. The proposed law and solutions that were in this law could have caused major problems not only for the functioning of fire departments but for all the consequences that such operation, or such adaptation to the Labour Act, could have caused material damage, i.e. for the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But here's the law before us, and it's precisely the main reason why these proposed amendments to the Fire Department Act, which is the working time, will be passed. I am convinced that we will bring it together so that fire departments can normally continue to function especially at the moment that we have practically entered the summer fire season. The proposed amendments to the Fire Department Act with working hours which I think no longer need to elaborate what would have led to everything would have supported the proposal of a representative from the HSS club so that it would not have been elaborated to specify exactly what was said, and that is to be kept in mind that such a proposed model, because you know tomorrow when you meet with the implementation of the law, with inspections, with services, with consequences, and given that the fire department will agree with me interest, dangerous interest, unfortunately we are witnessing the loss of firefighters, injuries, etc., everything it carries, then ultimately, when such a situation is seen and the point of comma. I ask the Secretary of State, i.e. the Ministry of the Interior as a resolution body, to try to install this proposal, we are still on time to the last review, to make it easier and more efficient to implement this article. But with the Law of Fire in Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Department, with the proposed part regarding working time, there are a few other provisions that I must say that firefighters welcome them and that they are good. However, I must express my view that these amendments and additions have been discussed for several years, and then I will also say why they have just now come about working time on the agenda. The question is if we put them on the agenda, and they caused major problems in the operation of fire departments and in doing their job as firemen both professional and voluntary. The conditions for firefighters who have been the current Fire Department have been defined as causing certain problems, problems in implementation. It was almost impossible to meet the conditions relating to school equipment, that is, the conditions of setting firemen, and that has led, since in the Fire Department I think it is the only service in the fire department that is the internal affairs of operational action, when comparing police, military, etc., is subject to criminal sanctions. So that fire commanders, organizations, etc., some have, on several occasions in recent years, been with a judge for violations with other offenders because they were responsible for certain things that are of operational importance and which are dealt with in all services by sublegal regulations, i.e. acts that regulate the work of that service. So, unfortunately, the firefighters were in the situation. This proposal will remove this in the good part so that it is one shift. But I'm saying, for years, firemen have repeatedly asked for it to be done. Third thing, it's also about funding. My colleague Petyr said that, and I have to refer to myself because we're involved in fire departments. Fireman's right to return VAT was used exclusively for technical equipment, equipment procurement. Therefore, it was one significant amount planned, we achieved the right to return VAT and that money was spent again on technical equipment. So you need to know that these changes and additions, the firefighters stay, I'm going to say 22%, in that quantity of money less. It will cause problems, major problems in this situation, which is as financially as it is, in the functioning of public units, or voluntary fire companies. Especially in those environments that are more financially poor. Therefore, this provision is not happy. We accept that if it must comply with the European Directive to be harmonised, however, it will need to be seen in the next amendments and additions to the Fire Department to see what were the effects of this provision and how in what way in the given conditions, I say, to compensate for this lack of funds that will be returned. The law on fire that is in force today should be made very clearly, and which is 10 years, here it is now 10 years in implementation, has produced a major step in the organisation of fire. Both organisational and technical. So we have to say that in the last 10 years, fire has also organically strengthened, equipped and technically as well. And with the primary support of municipalities, cities, counties and states, technical equipment has been put in place so that today's fire is in a good part, I will not say that it is at European level, but in some segments and parts it is even more quality. However, normally within 10 years of the implementation of the Fire Department, there have been a lot of problems in the operation of the fire department, and here I have to make it clear that the main and main problem is that the fire organisation is not a complete organisation in both organisational and operational terms. Today, the fire department is organised at the level of municipalities, cities, counties within the framework of fire-fighting communities as roof institutions under the existing Fire Department, but at the state level, the chief fire commander as an institution commander is in the State Department for Protection and Rescue. The State Administration for Protection and Rescue as a state body has its own rules of action, its way of functioning. The fire outside it was organized I said on the subordination line in the operational section as it was organised and there are major and basic problems in organising the fire department. What the firefighters have been looking for in this part of the change and complementarity of the fire department, and there is a consensus in the fire department that firefighters are looking for a unique fire organization, I repeat, a fire organization. It's no different than it was arranged in the countries of our environment. Therefore, the fire department is in the Republic of Croatia and, not to repeat, the number of colleagues has previously said organized through professional and voluntary fire or voluntary and professional fire. At the level of the state, according to the existing law on fire, the Croatian Fire Department through county, city, municipal and regional communities is a roof organisation of professional and voluntary fires, such as the Law. The Fire Department has over 140 years of existence. During this period, in most parts of Croatia's territory, it was responsible for the state and organisation of fire, carried out fire work as a fire department. It is not a disputed relevant competent authority and the role of the State in the part of which the State must have. The firefighters suggested that in this form, given that it was a proposal to form a competent fire department to be a Croatian Fire Department, to arrange the positioning of the Chief Commander as an institution because it is not a person but a means of an institution, a fire department, to be within a fire structure with precise rights and powers and responsibilities to the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is a person appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because this is the only possible right and happy solution that will be needed in the subsequent amendments and additions of the Fire Department Act or will be the making of a whole law, to define things in such a way that they can function. That's where all the problems are coming from, which is that they weren't sublegal regulations adopted in time, anything that relates to the regular work or the operation of the fire department wasn't just passed, I'm not going to say the fragmentation but the duality of the fire system. In this way it would be resolved, it would be one institution, which is the son of qua non fire department, which deals with fire and which would propose it, and there is a resolute state body, the firefighters suggest it to be the Minister of Interior and the Ministry of the Interior, which is the resolution body that prescribes the jurisdiction of the fire department, or proposes to the State and corresponds to the State for the functioning of the fire department. This would allow the fire department to act normally and in quality. But in these conditions I have to say that the fire department is fulfilling its obligation here it enters into the summer fire season. In these conditions that are burdened with finance and better organised in technical and organisational terms, and if we solve that, I hope that in the autumn we will approach this business in the right way, as it is arranged in the countries in the environment, that means that the existing system is well set up. The mayor, the mayor and the mayor and the Prime Minister each in their part of responsibility must be responsible for the fire department but the fire department must be established from municipality to city as it is now. Why? Because the same way is the event that is from the level of individuals, objects, families, local committees, municipalities and cities, etc. And according to that, every problem that arises grows and then every level in charge of organising and solving it. Here's what I expect about the organization of the fire department. This solution, which today has been positioned in the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, is not a happy solution and is not a good solution, it has been shown during this period, therefore, I will refer to it a little bit in an individual debate. About financing public fire departments, even funding. Yeah. Today, after 10 years of law enforcement, it produces in some way the frustrations of municipalities, cities, those environments that are not being implemented by the decentralised funds, which is true, however, we must remember that in 2000 when the law came into force when the state put down power, responsibility, so to speak, to bring down the level of local self-government of the public fire department, which was taken over in 94, were then reduced and the financial resources. Which is normal, which is logical and only right. However, in the Law of Fire, there was one transitional period when the country's share of the state will be slowed down, increasing the share of local self-government units. This was understood by a different fiscal organisation of the state, etc., that period passed, as a temporary solution to all happiness was continued essentially as a permanent solution, but it is now 2010 and should be considered in a way that will continue to be financed, and the units of local self-government, and these are mostly cities not damaged for the powers they have received and that the other units of local self-government, i.e. that the share of the state is even in this entire funding. I say it again and I'll end up here. I pray that when they propose, Proposers etc., there is a major misunderstanding for several years, we are nevertheless inclined to say the European Directive and so on, Europe has said so, etc. The European Directive has two types of Directives, it has a directive that makes it conditional, as I accept it to be about VAT, but it has a directive that says that you have to establish a function, but it does not say that the national state and national system will look, and that is why fire and protection and rescue, or there is a lot of tolerance for different organisations in Europe, and so it will always be because they are both involved in traditional and relief reasons and I do not know what other historical reasons. Therefore, each national state shall regulate its system on the basis of these values. So I ask you to also the Fire Department, when it will be discussed to edit on these values that Croatia has, and the values are very good. It is this wealth that we have through voluntary and professional fires, about all of these 1,000 people we have talked about that richness that enables Croatia to be in this situation in these conditions, the growing problems of the threat of all kinds and already the least fires can have a quality and effective effect on the satisfaction of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55080	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55081	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. I will immediately say at the beginning that the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Pensioners will support this bill. However, we would like to point out some doubts or questions from the fire department that we hold to be not well solved and that it should certainly be an effort to do so. What this Law certainly corrects is the existing framework of conditions for the involvement of professional firefighters, and indeed the existing conditions could not be used exactly in a way that would allow the humane restoration of the professional fire structure. And it is good that the government reacts by defining some new conditions and equally the age limit that would allow the rejuvenation of the professional fire department in the Republic of Croatia, which, as we have heard, makes more than 2,000 600 professional firefighters. What concerns us is the way in which, in accordance with the European Directive, in accordance with Article 48(2) itself, a favourable position of the fire system in the supply of equipment will virtually be disabled. In fact, this is not resolved until the end by the tax return model itself, because a good administration is also meant to have applications or returns in time, which, unfortunately, is not the case in the part of voluntary fire companies. In this sense, we accept, of course, that changes that now define stronger obligations of units of local and regional (regional) self-government in the financing of the fire system also shifts more responsibility to the local and regional level, but we also warn that we cannot do so without ensuring conditions for decentralisation. Let us not forget that yesterday a law under which the finance minister says the units of local and regional (regional) self-government will be left with no more than a billion kunas of original incomes. Now to tighten these conditions for the financing of the fire system, of course, we can find a thousand reasons and everyone is justified, but we can't find any additional funds. Because by changing the Income Tax Act, the state has come to the conclusion that local and regional self-government units have less resources than they have so far. If we are not aware that the fiscal capacity of local self-government and regional self-government is constantly diminishing, as the whole set of regulations is currently in the process of changes in the Croatian Parliament, which will reduce the revenues of local self-government, from so on. monumental rents, down to income tax, and on the other hand we define a higher level of their financial obligations to certain services such as firefighting. We are for decentralisation, but it must be complex. It must also involve powers but also fiscal decentralisation. Otherwise, we're draining dry dreno, and that's not good. What we want to warn ourselves about is the fact, as my colleague Kozlevac said, that more than 80% of the public fire departments are seeking to change the current system by which the chief fire commander, i.e. the professional fire department, is actually subject to the State Protection and Rescue Authority. Especially after the Kornati tragedy came a very, very close approach to an analysis of the existing system and it was found that such a system does not meet our needs. More than 80% of the public fire departments, but also the county fire departments, require that the complete system be leveled and returned to the Croatian Fire Department system. How she's going to co-ordinate the state's protection and rescue plan is the second pair of sleeves, and here's the deal. But let's not ignore the fact that we have a double and uneven system. I don't know what needs to happen to show once again how coordination doesn't work in that sense. The government has direct responsibility because it appoints, sets up a chief fire commander. Therefore, there are no problems, there can be any links between each other responsibility and cooperation, but it cannot happen that the system is not integrated and that the Croatian Fire Department is one thing, and the professional system is something else, precisely because it is integrated into the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. In informal talks, many high-ranking people of the public fire system in Croatia will say they are extremely unhappy with this solution. Let's not ignore that. We also ask not to ignore the warning of experts who say that Zagreb Airport has been in a group of airports for more than two years, which, unfortunately, can happen at any time. I also warned the transport minister, who told me a year ago that he knew nothing about it, which is the analysis found in his ministry. Why do I say that here? Because 80% of all aircraft accidents occur in the flight-land corridor where a top fire protection system must be established. That prevention doesn't help, but protection certainly does. Because experts say that from the moment of contact of the plane with the ground in case of an accident if the plane's hull doesn't start to cool within three minutes, the chances of survival of those on board are equal to zero. We have a situation where we have a densely populated area in the summer-land corridor where the settlements of Lukavec, Donja Lomnica, where existing voluntary fire companies are not adequately equipped for a task that can wait for them. A public fire unit operating in Velika Gorica, a public fire department, or professional firemen at the airport, takes them far more than three minutes to reach the landing corridor area in which more than a hundred incidents have been recorded for the past 3.4 years, not to mention Russian planes that in the winter or early spring throw hundreds and hundreds of kilos of ice open a standing trap over Lukacs and Lomnica, instead of over Lukavci Čret, not to mention planes that are too low on their way down. These are all dangers that can lead significantly to a point where we will have to assess the efficiency of the fire system. If we're not able to act preventively now in a way to equip all voluntary fire departments in the flight corridor, and that's on the other side of Schitar, then I don't know what the role of the fire department is in this case. We can't close our eyes to that problem. We will therefore support your proposal to amend, but please make sure that there are serious objections to the functionality of the system and there are strong initiatives to be accessible to the careful reading of the Fire Department Act and once again to introduce better solutions than they are in this law from which our fire system, professional and voluntary, is drawn but indeed as far as it can function normally. We are a high-risk country precisely because along our coast is an area that is easily flammablely full of 5 months a year because of the type of plant cover, because of high temperatures, because of the high intensity of traffic and hundreds of other reasons. More than 50% of all interventions are practically carried out in these four counties. Therefore, if we are already at risk more than some countries in our environment, then we definitely need to approach this problem more seriously than any other country in the continental background can afford. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55082	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55083	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a detailed discussion of the clubs where many good proposals have been made, well-intentioned suggestions and I, in good faith, can contribute to this debate and improve therefore and the quality of fire and organization, will say a few words. Namely, the legislator’s intention was first and foremost to regulate the night’s or shift work of the fire department that the new Labour Act, which is not yet in order, regulates in a way that is not suitable for fire work. In that, not to repeat the predecessors, especially Mrs. Petyr, who talked about it, as someone said in that eager desire to arrange the working time of professional firefighters as soon as possible, it looks like someone's going to burn, and that's going to be the firemen. I have spoken and consulted with the professional fire department in Slavonski Brod, with the people who run them and I have received several interesting and interesting proposals, but also interesting proposals that I will translate into amendments that will follow this law that bears the P.Z.E. mark, therefore European, but Europe is not Croatia or Croatia is not yet in Europe. So in order not to stick to the drunk board and forget our specificities that were also spoken of here, I think that these proposals translated into amendments should be seriously considered, which is whether they are. In addition to the general conditions for establishing a working relationship, Article 1(2) states that a person who is admitted to the workplace of a professional fireman must fulfil the following conditions, that he is not more than 30 years old in the case of first employment. It's interesting that, as far as I know, Mr. Secretary of State, in the Ministry of State, this number of 30 at the admissions to employment at the Ministry of the Interior is therefore 25. Why in the firehouse 30? Is it some kind of fireman's job not to say retirement, or is that where young people need it, in condition? I don't deny that 30-year-olds are in shape, but in what ways is this difference. The amendment that we're going to make is precisely related to this article and this sub-assembly where this number should be 25 as well as to police admissions, as well as to fire receptions. There's no reason for a difference in this. Furthermore, paragraph 7 of Article 1 states that the commander of the public fire department and his deputy, so they are actually the director of the facility, must have at least the highest technical capacity. So now you tell me which director of the institution and in which law is prescribed for the other directors of the institution, to say by some rank, the senior expert prepares for the management post, and in the fire department can be with the higher even though we know that there is a graduate study that some for various reasons did not want to attend, they did not want to finish. And that's why I think it's necessary here to change these two words at least more for a high-level professional arrangement. It guarantees, guarantees and quality in the public fire department, and we know that because of certain problems or shortcomings in the professional preparation that have occurred these years, I will not talk about the tragedies from the petticoats to the dead and those who have died in those fires. For this reason, we can also ensure quality by prescribing to the commander and the deputy commander high professional equipment. And what I would say, in particular, is not clear or appropriate to the conditions in which this fire operation is downgraded, decentralised with its obligations to the units of local self-government, regional self-government, so the obligation to operate fire departments has been brought down to units of local, municipalities, cities, county. And then, by abolishing or eradicating paragraph 2 in Article 48, VAT return, tax, as the Krauts of Mervertiers, fire departments which they, these funds, used to obtain the modernisation of equipment and to improve the quality of firefighting. If this is already a European Union directive, gentlemen, we are not yet in the European Union. Therefore, we will suggest that this paragraph 2 in Article 48 is not deleted, but that it should only be added to the text that otherwise reads, in the current law, and I will read it. Therefore, the legal persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article are fully exempt from paying value added tax by invoices paid for the purchase of equipment, materials and services to carry out their activities until the date of Croatia's entry into the European Union. So, at least some kind of delay to give, and thus give you a break from the ministry to agree and agree that, at the end of Croatia's entry into the European Union, to arrange total firefighting, to finance the fire industry in order to make it more quality and quality. And it is more quality today that I claim than many countries already in the European Union. So these are the problems with what colleagues have already said here, and I wouldn't repeat them at their comments and debates. They're also good and well-intentioned. But here in these three elements, in these three items, the HDSSB will make amendments to the adoption, from thinking about the amendments, your solutions will also depend on the vote of the HDSSB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55084	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate and Mr. Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55085	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr Secretary of State. Let me also refer in an individual debate to the proposal that has been made today because the proposal to amend and supplement the Fire Department Act is an intervention in one Fire Department Act and I would say the entire system of fire-fighting, fire-fighting organisations, and generally also in the system of protection and rescue. I am just repeating as I said before, and on behalf of the club, we support these changes and additions to the working time of the firefighters who were also the reason to come today. But those other changes and additions relating to certain, problems in the functioning of the fire department that have been expressed, which are now being solved, although I must repeat that we have been repeated by firefighters for several years have asked that precisely those problems that would prevent the creation and unpleasant situations for fire commanders, fire departments, etc. So they can get rid of each other. Well, never too late. There is, and I am convinced that these provisions will produce an effect. As regards VAT, it is, of course, impossible to accept a reduction in financial resources with due respect for the implementation of the European Directive. However, implementation of this obligation will produce a lack of financial resources and will create certain problems in the functioning of all fire-fighting organisations, especially in those areas that have problems with financial resources. As far as the fire system is concerned, I repeat it once more. Outside of police military affairs, health services and all that is related to this fire is an organized force that guarantees the guests of the Republic of Croatia the possibility of resuscitation, i.e. the opposition to all possible dangers that we are exposed to today. Therefore, when we talk about fire, we must consider that the world’s fires and Europe’s start from twin Towers in America where we have had the opportunity to see all these events that are likely to occur and to change the climate in Europe, and so are the Croatian firefighters, the organized force that is organised in these dangers and that can be opposed. Even the fires are below 50% of the total interventions. Today, firefighters, as always, are called to all possible dangers, whether people are by property, whether they are caused by technical problems than water release, gas, wall collapse, buildings more honestly, etc. Therefore, fire is a multidisciplinary activity to the interventions produced by the weather, meaning from the natural phenomena we see daily whether these are collapses, tree collapses, floods. So where people are threatened from floods to various technical interventions, the dangers of whether small or large about which everything can be big can be neither imagined. However, fire must be prepared as an organised power of society, and it does so for the implementation of this. In order for it to work, it must then be organised through a unique system or as firefighters say a unique fire organisation. Therefore, it is inadmissible that several levels of state, the chief fire commander as an institute, as an institution and all that must be produced by the state, which is to determine the system, propose certain measures, etc., to be outside the fire system. Therefore, the proposal is that a full fire organisation and a chief fire commander should be placed and that the fire department can function even more efficiently and even more effectively. In the overall system of protection and rescue, the fire department is the bearer, and that's where everyone agrees, everyone agrees. However, as it is now positioned it has the limits set, it cannot function even better. I must say that Croatia is developing a system of protection and rescue. It's that we've changed the date a little. We're actually the only one in Europe, I don't know if I'm going to claim in the world we have a term system of protection and rescue. Europe and the world still use the term civil protection. When they talk about civil protection, they consider this whole system. This is a system of protection and rescue and in this entire system of fire and fire in Europe and in the world plays a central role at a given time. I must say that the system of protection and rescue within which it is currently responsible as an organisation within the state and for the fire at national level has been developing for the last five years, and I must say that the system in the opinion of many and experts is not developing in the direction of an appropriate Republic of Croatia exactly what the Republic of Croatia has as resources existing. Every country in Europe, including in the world, has adapted the system to everything it has from existing resources, respecting the traditional development of service levels reached, respecting the historical reasons for the development of certain systems because systems have not developed in the same way and have found appropriate but above all rational solutions from the Austrians, beginning with the Germans, etc. So the rational solution is what, why am I saying that? Because it's not good to develop parallel systems in some way. It is not good to develop parallel systems, and problems can arise, i.e. it is terribly irrational. Systems should be developed compatible with existing resources and used by existing system development resources. To make the system, it is not a controversial system when certain problems arise at the level of municipalities, cities and counties. When the level of state becomes a threat to broader proportions, then every state must have a system and there is no disputed role of the state level, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, or the responsibility of the Government, the prime minister, means at the state level that there is one system that will coordinate and coordinate at some point. One example that appears, which is just the beginning and end of fire interventions. It's okay when fire interventions are done from start to end without problems for people or for firemen. However, when problems arise by firemen, and we have seen in the near past that problems arise who and how they will react. Firefighting must have a system within a single fire organization that will organise, plan, carry out any intervention from start to end to rescue firefighters who will be threatened by the danger. It is unacceptable for another institution or other institutions to worry about saving firefighters. It would be the same as if the military, the police, had not developed a system of self-saving, extraction, resolving its members rather than doing so by some other institutions. The firefighters today, unfortunately so far, have been in this situation and I ask you now when it comes to the proposal of the system and organisation and the amendments or the Fire Department to make sure that the fire department is at the same level from the beginning to the end. I repeat once again the unique fire organisation, from the commander-in-chief to the bottom, on the co-ordination line, and the country's resolution body should be the Ministry of Interior, or the minister responsible for this activity with all the competences and powers it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55086	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55087	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm signing 90 percent of what you said about the organisation and operation of the fire department. Here, one contribution to your debate, a few words about the reflections on fire in Požega-Slavon County, i.e. the Požega-Slavon County Fire Community. Neither the law, unfortunately, solves the discharging of local self-government units in the financing of DVDs, nor the financing of voluntary firepower, but rather the opposite. And this introduction of DVD payments on equipment, on buying equipment, on various forms of investment of voluntary firefighters will directly affect again the funds that firefighters, volunteer firefighters receive exclusively from local self-government units. You know how my county head of the fire department says he's funding the fire department in the Republic of Croatia? To volunteer firefighters, the mother's state of stepmothers, and to the public fire departments. Unfortunately, this is exactly what is happening in these moments because volunteering has been left entirely to finance units of local self-government, and unfortunately, the state budget does not participate regardless of the announcements in the last 10 years that voluntary firepower could be financed and out of the state budget. And I remind you that volunteering in Croatia is over 130 years old, that it is the very foundation of public fire and public fire departments. That it is the foundation of today's protection and rescue because they are the best organized units of protection and rescue with a long tradition, with experienced people, with experienced firefighters, volunteers who without a single kuna compensation come out almost all the fires. Only in the area of the Pakrac-Lipik Fire Community has 14 highly organized voluntary fire companies. The closest public fire unit is in Požega, 50 km away from its existence, I don't know if it's intervened once or twice in the area of the Pakrac-Lipik Fire Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55088	Thank you. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55089	My dear colleague, I have nothing to rephrase for you, but I can only relate. I agree with you. I've just said before, I'll try to be quick, that just over the past 10 years, from that basic intensity when public units were financed, or decentralised by state powers, decentralised and financial resources and were then expected to come up with different financing of total where ultimately units of local self-government would be appropriate to their capabilities and needs to finance fire as they needed. It hasn't happened in 10 years, and I agree with you that one situation needs to be changed. But now that we're changing, I'd just like to warn myself that we're making sure that we don't do new injustices, but that we just find solutions for municipalities and communities and cities that are developing voluntary firepower as appropriate to our needs, to enable them to have financial resources evenly from the state level, or to set up a whole range of funding differently, but without producing what they would say to new injustices. And it will need to be done in due course. The Croatian Fire Department made a proposal, made it up and directed it to the Ministry of Interior as a resolution body, or government, but here I must say that the answer was the situation in which we are located, etc. However, we believe that this can be resolved. If there's nothing else to say time and time when it's gonna start to work out. Then in some way this problem you're talking about will be met. However, that Croatia needs both professional and voluntary fire work, but it is fair that every environment, municipality and city decides what kind of fire is required. It's a little bit problematic now when the state gives financial resources, then in another way you appreciate you need it, you don't need it. I think each would have to assess what they need in accordance with their own needs. That's how history was, so someone chose if they had the means of professional fire if needed, or voluntarily. And if it is voluntary and professionally necessary, it should be and it is precisely the wealth of the Croatian Fire Department.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55090	Thank you. Final review State Secretary Ivica Buconjic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55091	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have been listening very closely to your statements, comments, opinions, remarks since the change of this law has recently brought a lot of attention to the media and the public. I will try only to comment on some of your thoughts and ideas to explain, first of all, I mean here some reflections of MP Petir, representative Grubisic and representative of Kozlevec. About the funding first. Representative Kozlevac said practically how planned the financing of the fire department was. After the law was passed in 2000, local self-government units were scheduled to take over 25% of the funding each year. After 4 years they had to assume practically 100%, however, because many units of local self-government were not able to especially those poorer and municipalities to take over this obligation, the state continued through decentralised funds for the needs of firefighting financing a good part of the cost of fire in local self-government units. First of all, public fire departments established by cities, or several cities or municipalities together are funded. There are several initiatives and several lawsuits and it is in the Constitutional Court by the Croatian Fire Communities, municipalities, cities and counties or even I think from the DVD that it is allocated from the state budget to finance those units of local self-government or that they generate decentralised funds that are not founders of public fire, professional units. This is not just about the Fire Department Act, this is about the Law on the financing of units of local, regional, regional self-government. And we simply couldn't intervene at this point because it would violate other laws that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for. I'm not saying it's not a good solution it's good, but simply the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior is not resolutely competent to amend these other laws practically which you asked to change. With regard to the formation of new public fire departments, you know that new public professional fire departments are formed on the basis of a threat assessment. If, from an assessment of the threat to certain units of local self-government, there is a need for, of course, local self-government units to establish either independently or together, new public fire departments, however, this is again a problem which does not defend the units of local self-government to establish new public fire stations. And what is perhaps the most important thing that Mr. Kozlevac said was that the system of fire was not fragmented but was doubled and it is indeed noticeable in practice that there were certain problems but I initially said, I don't know if you noticed at the beginning of your debate in the reasoning of the Law, that you would immediately start making a new law. Obviously, some things in the fire system need to be fixed, some relationships need to be changed by not wanting to absolutely prejudge, to benefit, or to whose harm, or to who should be the headquarters of the entire fire system, should be said first and foremost by the people of the fire system. What is agreed upon will certainly be through the new law and normised and that system will be established which is suitable for Croatia, which is suitable for budgetary opportunities, which is suitable for Croatian needs in view of the threat of fire, given the regional distribution of fire, given the historical circumstances surrounding the establishment of voluntary fire stations, there are a number of reasons and factors that affect how Croatian firefighting should be organised and that this new law that will surely be adopted by autumn will take care of all specificities in Croatia that relate to this system of protection and rescue or firefighting. And I'd just like to answer Mr. Grubisic, I don't know if he'll go with the amendments. He said why 30 years as a age limit for first-time employment in the fire department, not 25 years as in cops. We wanted with that 25 border, however, I'm going to tell you that the M.O.P. will go soon with an increase of that limit, from 25 probably to 27, 28 years old. Because this age limit may have appeared to us too low, and besides, it was not the main reason, we did not align with the MUP, but the main reason was because we have a lot of Croatian citizens who are currently in retraining courses and are over 25 years old. We have laid down that transitional provision that does not apply to them but we think that a more practical solution is ultimately in consultation with the Association of Professional Firefighters we have received the answer that 30 years is appropriate to the bottom line, for the first entry into the fire department. As for school equipment, the same was the attitude of both the firemen's union and the association of professional firefighters, even I think that Mr. Kozlevac also supported, or the HVZ, that there were still training problems, that some commanders were not able for objective reasons to acquire high equipment, and if they put high school equipment as a condition that this could arise as a problem in one significant part of the unit. There's probably part of a unit where it's not a problem, but there's a part of the unit, that kind of information from the circle of firefighters right now on high-tech gear would make problems, organisational, humane in certain fire departments. It's information from the field and I hope it's true and that was the reason and motive why we went like this. And about VAT, I have to say the same thing I said about funding, that was the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance would not give consent to this Law, and it is written in their letter unless Article 2 of Article 48 is deleted because it is contrary to Directive 2006/112EC which the Republic of Croatia must respect. Thanks for the discussion, I said at the outset that the basic reason and motive for proposing this Law was first of all to edit working time but after practically this adoption of the Law we will certainly approach the creation of a new law where all segments of Croatian Fire Department will be able to state their position, their opinion and we will surely pass a law that will be better than this existing one, and that will set a complete organisation of firefighting in the Republic of Croatia in the best possible way that meets the needs and wishes of the Republic of Croatia and the fire system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55092	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55093	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State it is true that there is a European Union directive in 2006 but it is still true that we are not in the European Union. Therefore, you have heard my proposal to delete this item 2 by entering the European Union, therefore, it is a kind of delay and application of this request by the Ministry of Finance, which you are talking about, not to return VAT to voluntary fire departments that are thus coubling with money and supply of equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55094	It was a comment, one assessment, not a correction of an incorrect quote. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55095	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Fire Department Act. Emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 563. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HSS Club and the HDSSB Club. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. First, the Club of Representatives of the HSS Amendment, as referred to in Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55096	The amendment is not accepted because a part of the unit would be in trouble if the amendment was accepted that the commanders must have high professional equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55097	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55098	Mr. Secretary of State if we are thinking in Europe, and because of the European directive you have already changed Article 48(2), or deleted it, it would certainly be good if the commander of the fire department had high equipment to ensure better operation of the fire department. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55099	Please raise your hands who is for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment 2 of the same club, which also refers to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55100	The amendment is not accepted because the age limit is 30 years in line with the participants in the fire system, with the Fireman's Union and the Association of Professional Firefighters.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55101	Thank you. Mr. Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55102	That opinion is not in line with these entities you listed. And you can imagine when a fireman enters the service at 30 years of age and 40 years of employment that he will be effective and effective in his 70s. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55103	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment 3 to Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55104	The amendment is not accepted because the current paragraph 2 of Article 48 was contrary to the E.Z. Directive. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the implementation of the state budget states: "the value added tax paid by the equipment purchase accounts in 2010 will return to public fire departments, voluntary fire departments and fire departments." Therefore, units must pay VAT, but have the right to return VAT under the State budget law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55105	Thank you. Mr. Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55106	I don't even know why item 2 is being abolished, if that's the case. What you're telling me now is actually, you're actually not consistent with the abolition of paragraph 2. But you said it was an EU directive, but the EU does not know about the decentralisation of the fire-fighting function as Croatia did. I don't know how these funds that were coming into the fire department's resources are gonna settle down, and I'm asking for a vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55107	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Department. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 103 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55108	We are going to the next item of the agenda - Final draft law amending the Law on Forests, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 552 The Proposer is Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and the Water Economy. Proposer representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy Herman Sušnik will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55109	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Here is a proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Forests with the Final Proposal of the Law. These amendments regulate issues that regulate the level of compensation for the general services of the forest. In its provisions, the law so far regulated the amount of compensation for the use of generally useful forest functions at 0,07% of the total income of legal persons carrying out economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal was also adopted as such by the 1990 Forests Act, but is new by the 2005 law. Such a way of raising funds for the first time in the history of Croatian forestry is a quality and long-term financing solution, forest management on karst, Istria, Croatian coast, Lika, Dalmatia with islands, but also the recovery of economic forests threatened by drying i.e. By falling especially in the course of the meal and the oak of the watermelon. However, due to the impact of the economic crisis, and in order to implement the economic recovery programme, we propose to reduce the amount of compensation by 25% and to make it 0.0525% of the total income of the legal persons' activities and at this rate will remain in the economy's around 115 million kuna system if they take the basis of the 2009 total income, but all together at the total annual level. I can only briefly say a few more words about the general useful functions of the forest in the Republic of Croatia. It is known that the Republic of Croatia has 2 million 687 thousand hectares of forest, and of these hectares about 43%, means about a million and 143 thousand acres of forest on the karst, which is characterized by the fact that they have a general high value of function and a very small almost insignificant value and the usability of wood mass. Because of these facts and the preservation of these forests, it is not possible to ensure that the revenues are managed by those forests. The rational use of these funds primarily in the karst forests has made a significant step in Croatian forestry. This is particularly visible in the implementation of preventive forest protection measures against fire. Now here's the last item on fire. Over 3 thousand 500km have been built over the past period, fire averages with elements of forest roads. These funds constantly resuscitate the burned surfaces. Unfortunately, every year, a certain part of the forest area and forest land occur, new surfaces are forested, forests are arranged, mined forest surfaces are demined, the purpose is carried out, and the programmes of the management of the prescribed measures are implemented. Part of the funds has also been invested in improving the management of private forests through the Forest Advisory Service, and in accordance with the provisions of the Fire Department Act 5% or around 20 million kunas use the fire department in the area of debris. Let me just say a few words about demining. That the last three years have invested more than 200 million kunas from these funds. With the date of 1 February 2010 still below mines and mine suspected surfaces there are 138 thousand 500 hectares of surfaces which are managed by Croatian forests with a captured wood supply that is not used by 17.8 million cubic metres, and by ten-year cut-off stages of 2.5 million cubic metres. I just wanted to say to this how much work we still have ahead of us. That this money is used for the general useful functions of the forest. And in demining we still have a lot of work to do to solve all those surfaces. I must also stress that Croatian forests d.o.o. and themselves pay compensation for the generally useful functions of forests from business revenues achieved, and respecting their public mission each year, they allocate about 24 million kuna on the name of a water contribution, as well as 45 million kuna on the name of a forest contribution that is fully in the function of local communities development. Here's to the conclusion. Generally beneficial forest functions in the modern conditions of society and foreclosure are the cornerstones of the sustainable development of every advanced society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55110	Thank you. Committees, legislation, regional development, forestry and the water economy? No, I don't. The HDZ representative's club, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55111	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored State Secretary, the Honorable Director. Here is the HDZ Club which supports this proposal for a law amending the Law on Forests with the Final Proposal for the purpose of amending these amendments, i.e. the amendments to Article 62. The Law on Forests allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement measures to implement the plan for the implementation of the economic recovery programme, which ultimately aims to strengthen the Croatian economy, create new jobs and thus accelerate the exit from the crisis. Here we know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the plan of implementation activities and the programme of economic recovery in May this year. We know that also in point one fiscal policy has defined a number of short-term measures in order to reduce, i.e. to remove non-taxables, and this is referred to as a priority. Among these measures is one that reduces the contribution to Croatian forests. In this case, it is intended to reduce the compensation for the use of the common useful functions of the forest, and the holder of the implementation activities is the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here is the urgency of the procedure justifying the prevention of major economic disturbances and the removal of part of the commitments that negatively affect economic operators under the conditions of this economic crisis. The forests in the Republic of Croatia cover 37% of total state territory and together with forest land cover an area of more than 2.5 million hectares. Of which 81% of the forest is state-owned, the remaining 19 are private. Currently, 31% of the globe is covered in forests, and happy news is that in the last decade, the loss of the forest area has been reduced by almost 40%. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization's data show that compared to the 1990s, the annual loss was reduced from 8.3 million hectares to 5.2 million. But here we go back to our forests. The additional value of our forests is that they are the most natural, so they are created by the natural rejuvenation of indigenous plant species and are extremely productive. We are aware of this wealth and are responsible for protecting this vast biological, cultural and development potential. There is certainly more space for protection, and that is the obligation of this generation to all future generations. Here's what's changed with this proposal to amend the Law on the Forests. Therefore, the amount of compensation for the use of the common useful functions of forests, which, under the current Forest Act, amounted to 0.07% of the total income of legal persons carrying out economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, is reduced by 25%, so almost a quarter. The Minister responsible for forestry activities shall be empowered to comply within 15 days of the entry into force of this proposal with the regulation governing the way of accounting, forms and time limits of payment of compensation for the use of the common forest functions. Well, let me remind you, colleagues and colleagues, that these funds are strictly intended and are used for the work of biological restoration of the forest, for the protection of forests, for the management of the forest, for the restoration and recovery of ingredients threatened by drying and other disasters, for the construction of forest roads, but also for demining, as the Secretary of State said in the introduction. So here I will also remind this opportunity that out of today's total 885 km2 mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia 61% make up forests + 11% maquito and karst. So almost 72% of the parish surfaces make up the woods, so somewhere around 637 km2. Furthermore, these funds also finance seed and waste management activities, the preservation of genofonds, but the rise of clone plantations, but also scientific and other works, means everything that promotes the general services of forests. This is why I mentioned all of this, because this said 25% reduction means that the funding of these activities will be reduced by more than 100 million kuna. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club hold that the ministry's minister and professional services will well balance the financing of all activities so that the effects of this measure are as good for the economy as possible and with as little damage to our forests. Here, therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55112	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the distinguished representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here are colleagues already said, especially the State Secretary in the opening statement, about the state of the area and the state of the Forest Fund in the Republic of Croatia, with the fact that I have to correct my colleague because it is not 37% but 47% of the land area. Therefore we are familiar with this, but I will note first of all that these are common forest functions, and they are prescribed in Article three of the Forests Act. And this is the protection of soil from water erosion and wind, the balance of water resources in landscapes, and the prevention of floods and high water waves, the purification of water through forest soil, and the provision of groundwater source streams with drinking water, favourable impacts on climate and agricultural activity, the impact on the beauty of landscapes, the creation of favourable conditions for human health, the provision of space for rest and recreation, conditions for the development of ecological hunting and rural tourism, the preservation of the biodiversity of the genofonds, the protection of nature by easing the effects of greenhouses' effects and meaning in the defence of the country. In accordance with Article 62 of the Treaty on the The forest law of all economic organisations engaged in economic activity is 0,07% of their income, and these funds are also spent in accordance with Article 64. Law on forests on the work of biological restoration of forests, the works of forest protection and the works of forest management on karst, the works of recovery and restoration... threatened by the drying and other disasters, the construction of forest roads, demining and other works for the preservation of common forest functions, works of seed and waste production, the preservation of genofonds and the raising of clone seed plantations, scientific works in the field of forestry, the cost of rebuilding and revising forest owners' forests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The resources are allocated according to forests according to the area, or as much as the area is supported by forests or forests of forest owners. Here's the basic question of who's raising funds. Croatian forests collect these funds and account for, that is, economic organisations account for and Croatian forests collect. The question here is whether it is a commercial society, is that it is owned by the Republic of Croatia, whether it is really the most competent to raise those funds. According to the Law on Forests, a report is submitted once a year to the Government on fees and their expenditure in the previous year. The question arises here whether those who allocate these funds have no right to know how these money is spent, in which they are spent, what is the state of the forest, whether the control of the works has been carried out, whether these money is actually spent in the prescribed works or spent under Article 64. Forest law. Why there are no rules on the work in which these money can be spent, which is, with other money for the rights of service, limited forest rights and forest land. Are these resources for general forest functions sufficient or not, should they be increased or reduced and why? What are the effects of the increase or decrease? These are all questions which unfortunately there is no answer, and if the ministry had brought forest policy and strategy over the past five years, perhaps this Assembly and the Croatian public would have received answers. 47% of the area of the Republic of Croatia by the forests of the most valuable renewable forest resource deserves to know the public with the state of the forest and transparency in the consumption of general forest functions, with the fact that it requires a FSC certificate. The forest advisory service and the Croatian forest are unfortunately two parallel organisations. One takes care of forest owners' forests and the state budget costs about 40 million kuna with 80 employees and unfortunately creates a riot in the wood market, but also powers in forestry. Croatian forests are mastered by state forests with all their good but bad sides and precisely because of the bad sides about restructuring the Croatian forests has been spoken for 15 years. The first one was paid to the Irish 700 thousand dollars to build a restructuring programme and ended up in a drawer, and according to the second project to restructure the Faculty of Economics from Zagreb, which paid 4 million kuna, will probably end up in a drawer as well. For this reason, we in the SDP consider it necessary to approach the restructuring of forestry, not just one part of forestry or Croatian forests. To relieve the economy in the coming crisis at the end of 2008, the SDP referred the Law on the reduction of non-taxable yields, among other water contributions, the reduction of water contribution, then the exemption for cultural rent and the generally useful forest functions of 25% of December 9th, and 31 March 2009 was rejected by the Ministry of Finance in order to produce a more high-quality proposal for rationalisation and simplification of non-taxable income in connection with fiscal and economic effects as an additional distribution of citizens and economic operators with the basis of non-taxable income. After a year of pressure from the economy, we get the same bill that unfortunately brings nothing new. We expected a more concrete solution especially in this law, i.e. the area of forestry. For example, why is it not the introduction of an exemption for simple biological reproduction that would allow Croatian forests not only to depend on the revenues of selling wood assorteds but to enable them to perform the prescribed forest and breeding works, rather than to save on these works. Why is it that no deforestation projects have been prepared because we know that in Croatia there are a lot of rough forest areas waiting for and unused agricultural land that are no longer for agriculture that would allow employment on these very jobs, precisely in rural areas and rural areas which are the most affected by the economic crisis. Why is it not specified to strengthen the demining intensity of forest surfaces which then restore the possibility... and new employment, and in particular in addressing the problem of demining companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, there are no solutions like this. This is how it turns out that school work is prescribed with a year late, and time that is irrevocably lost for the Croatian economy. In its measures, the government said it would implement this, meaning economic policy recovery by the end of 2010. I wonder why there is no limit until 31.12.2010 for this law. The committee explained that a new forest law is being prepared, so it will be governed by a new law. Unfortunately, the 100 million kuna data given in the explanation does not apply to this year, but only to 50 million kunas, because if the funds are collected at 400 million kuna level which last year is something and increased, but it is more of a billing order and is not a reflection of the state of movement of economic activity in 2009. So, those savings aren't gonna be 100 million kunas for this year, they're just 50 million kunas. Looking at the fact that the forest law remains, i.e. these changes and in the future of 0.525% about 100 million or 80 million kuna will be missing as income in the Croatian forests. But knowing how to work in the Croatian forests, I know that through the introduction of order in the sale of wood assorts, the organisation of work, the opening of new products and jobs on the market, in forestry, streamlining of works and its quality through forest and breeding works, cutting and making, attracting and all other opportunities within that system. Finally, I can say that the SDP club will support this law because it is essentially prescribed by the law of the SDP and I hope that the new and announced amendments to the forest law will contribute far better and greater organisation of the Croatian forests, but above all, forestry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55114	Thank you. It is the turn of the HNS club, HSU's esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55115	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. We have a very short proposal for legal text, which literally defines in three articles only a correction of a single element of the Law on Forests, which is the amount of compensation for the use of common useful functions of the forest. This fee is 0.07% of the income of all legal persons involved in economic activity. It is now proposed that this fee be adjusted to 0.025%. As already mentioned before by my colleague, this would save about a hundred million kuna at an annual level, in fact at half a year's level, so fifty million. However, we suspect this kind of mathematics. Because it's interesting that no one in the Croatian forest has complained about this story so far. This means that there are large internal reserves and that nothing will happen to the Croatian forests and the entire system, and we will try to prove that we have been very helpful to the Croatian economy under the auspices of the discharge of parafiscal burdens. All right, the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retirement Party will support the proposal to reduce this fee, but we insist on taking care of the situation in the Croatian Forests system because it is now an opportunity to finally open the story of this huge system from which a whole series of information and warnings come, that in some segments work on the edge of the law, in some segments across the edge of the law, and in many segments it is quite irresponsible. Because we must take into account the fact that forests are one of the few natural resources that are still nominally in the hands of the Croatian political people. The question arises, why so far the story of the situation in the Croatian forests has not been opened, and systems such as HEP are being opened. Because Croatian forests also deserve special attention not only to the State Audit, not only to all financial institutions, i.e. financial management institutions such as the Ministry of Finance, but also to the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK. The way it manages forest wealth in the Republic of Croatia for several reasons is very, very suspicious. Under the auspices of the domestic wood cluster or domestic wood producers, it is actually an incredibly arrogant availability of forest wealth which is very easy to check with the naked eye what the Croatian forests are turning into. I have already mentioned it once, and I will repeat it because it is my obligation and as a representative to warn that a whole series of large forest areas are being cut down as the people say under their hair. Where the economic base for the exploitation of forests is misused and where it is particularly suitable for producers of raw materials and semi-products that collect huge extra profits in the production of veneer, in the production of raw material of parquet and other construction material without actual control of what is happening. I will list 2 examples that are the most escalating in my electoral unit, which is what is done with the Turopoly Lug, one forest of oaks which does not have much in Croatia, which is of exceptional value, one forest that was taken from the people of '47. the years of justice to God without a single penny of compensation, she was taken away from the land communities. Today, the Turopoly Lug on its edges looks like the moon's crust because they cut huge areas under the hair. The same is the situation with the forests in the Vukomeric Gorica. The most escalating example is Šiljakovčka Dubrava where when you enter the forest which is already, there is a hunting status, so it enters not only Croatian forests and those dealing with the exploitation of forests but also hunters. After a edge belt of about 100 or 200 meters, huge areas cut under the hair that have now grown in the chic under the egid that it is actually a space that is young, i.e. planted with new seedlings. And we all know very well how to rejuvenate the forest, gradually extracting the mature wood mass and constantly nagging the young. We now have huge surfaces in the schizophres that are suffocating the seedlings that will take 10 times as long to cool down as it would otherwise be to take care of it in the way of the true master. The question arises how is it possible that the Croatian Forest system has allowed so many outstanding claims and who are these people who owe more than 10 million kuna to Croatian forests? How is it possible that they were delivered after two or three years of not paying their dues? What are forest homes, luxury terminals and vineyards owned by Croatian forests? Is it a toy for the management of Croatian forests and their friends or is it a capital that should be put into operation to bring income? This is an opportunity to point out the problems that exist in the system. Of course not all of them, there are large parts of the Croatian Forests system that do their work fairly, honestly, according to the profession and the need to preserve biodiversity and wood, or forests as natural wealth. But there is a reasonable doubt that comes in the form of information and cry of people who are positioned in the Croatian Forests system to get into that system as soon as possible and to comb the state and check all possible abuses and everything we actually call crime. This is about public, state capital, the ownership of the Croatian people, all Croatian citizens and this government, and we all need to be particularly sensitive because it is something that has calmed us generations before us and we have an obligation to restore it to a generation that follows in a better condition than we have found. Shall we play with the fate of Croatian folk capital? Will we allow such an important value to devastate and reduce? I hope that we are far from any idea that the Croatian forest economy should be given into the hands of the tycoon, privatised and that one of the rare forms of folk capital for small money is taken from the people. It is a great responsibility for the ministry to monitor this situation and finally take more care of the real situation in the Croatian forests, but also also in general about forest wealth, one of which is a good part and in private hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55116	Thank you. We have 3 corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Vlatko Podnar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Beus, you've said a lot of things in truth, and I'm not going to make it right for you, but I just need to fix this, not under my hair, but a final cut. It's a professional name. About the state of rejuvenation of these ingredients after the final cut I won't enter that thing, it should be a matter of inspection, but it's obvious that they're not doing their job. And secondly, you don't renew the one-time ingredients... It's the way of the fertilized seed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And... the woods are in the Gorski Kotar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55118	Thank you. The second correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Berislav Roncevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting an incorrect quote by an esteemed colleague about devalued forest wealth in the context of the business of the Croatian Forests. On the contrary, a colleague, and this will probably explain to you later on coffee and colleague Podnar, Croatia is protected and among the leading European countries in protecting Croatian forest wealth. In Croatia, speaking in hectares, it is more renovating and crews than it is cut down. If you've seen any forest operations anywhere, maybe it's a clean-cut procedure. If it's in line with the forest-economic... it's all in the law. Here, speaking on behalf of the law club, you were talking about an isolated phenomenon. It can be about the isolated phenomenon you saw as a global way of managing Croatian forests. If you were talking about business
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55120	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55121	If you are talking about the business of Croatian forests as something illegal you have knowledge of, there are institutions you are obliged to report, however, Croatian forests protect their forest wealth and that is proof that wood supply per hectare in Croatian forests is even bigger than in private forests, it is proof that you are wrong when you say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55122	Thank you. We have a second correction to the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55123	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues so I would correct Mr. Beuss' incorrect quote when he said that those who sell raw materials today, means that they do cuttings that make elements, fantastically earn, that's not exactly how much I follow. Truth should be connected to forestry and wood industry and forestry, because you're probably talking about these non-payments is about part of it, but what you're talking about, the ones who heard us, they certainly won't agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55124	Thank you. And we go further with the club debate, the last club is today on this point HSS, the distinguished representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55125	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The importance of forests in the modern conditions of life and overcoming, in particular, in terms of sustainable development, both global and national economies, is enormous. Thus, Article 52 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and forest land are defined as goods and resources of particular interest. The Republic of Croatia today has more than 2 and a half million hectares of forest and forest land, which makes up almost half of its total territory. Of this figure, as many as 43% or 1.1 million hectares take up forests on junk that are known to have a large ecological and social function that is viewed through hydrological, anti-erosion and climate and other activities. Of course, forests create and store soil from erosion, regulate the water regime, and cleanse water, absorb carbon dioxide, and produce oxygen. Let me just mention some of these important functions. Forests are also important for the preservation of nature and biodiversity, and are increasingly recognised by health recreational and aesthetic functions. Namely, what distinguishes Croatia from the coast of other Mediterranean countries is exactly the green color of our forests. Unlike forests located on the continental part of the forest on the karst, they are not economically profitable, but this does not mean that they are in any way less valuable. In fact, they are under these conditions precisely because of their generally useful functions, of which I have previously cited even more valuable. However, regardless of what we would all agree to if it were worth something, this value does not bring direct money. The use and value of wood mass in these forests is almost insignificant, so the revenues achieved from the management of these forests cannot ensure their preservation as well as the preservation of the generally mentioned useful functions that they contain. The forest in order to be in optimal condition requires constant investment, for example in the rejuvenation of fire protection, shaming, fire-fighting, etc. However, coastal forests do not yield income that could make this possible. That is why, in the early 1990s, a compensation was introduced for the general useful functions of the forest, whose purpose was to provide sufficient financial resources to preserve and improve specific and socially beneficial potentials for which forests are available. In the past years, the compensation for the BOX has proved to be a valid and appropriate way for economic operators who should ultimately take the most care of sustainable development to participate in the long-term preservation of the above-mentioned general useful functions necessary for the maintenance of ecosystems. The justification of this fee also shows the current initiatives in some other countries, to set up such or similar means of financing the necessary works and activities important for the preservation of forests by example in the Republic of Croatia. The collection of funds shall finance works related to the regulation of biological restoration and protection of forests. Fire protection, humanitarian demining, etc. Thanks to these funds, the damages caused by forest diseases, fires, the collapse of wood mass due to the mined or unaccessible terrain and even potential human victims are reduced to a minimum and the Republic of Croatia has the privilege of having probably the best preserved natural forests in Europe. During the centuries, Croatian foresters preserved the nature of the composition of our forests and did not give themselves an illusion that it could be earned overnight so that our forests did not turn into plantations of fast-growing trees of alochton species but preserved their natural composition so that we can also say that we have a great wealth of biodiversity. Unlike other European countries, which have lost their biodiversity due to a large share of monoculture forests. With the growth of economic activity, the collection of funds for the OCFŠ increased year after year so that a total of 458 million kunas were charged during 2009. The need for further investment, the general useful functions of the forest are still high but we are witnessing a very difficult situation in the economy, which in order to maintain such competitiveness on the global market is a quick and efficient measure we must decommit from all tax and non-taxable duties. On condition that we do not question the functioning of systems which are necessarily to be financed from these systems. With this in mind at the HSS Club, we believe that the Government's proposal to reduce the rate of compensation for the generalised forest functions of 25% is an appropriate way to disburse the economy by around 100 million kuna per year without bringing all of those socially beneficial also legitimate activities financed from these funds. However, here I must stress that this measure is considered temporary and that we expect that the recovery of the economy and thus by intensifying the economic activity of the KEFŠ compensation fund will return very quickly to the level at which they were in 2009. It is certain that the reduction of the prescribed rate of compensation for the KEFŠ will have an impact on certain segments of business of the Croatian Forests, as well as other entities such as the forest advisory service and the fire department in the area of debris which have financed their activities in part or entirely from these funds. We therefore consider it necessary for all these entities to create reductions or rebalancing of planned activities and to set priorities in terms of their implementation and financing. We believe that these priorities must continue to be fire protection, forest protection and demining. Forest surfaces or something. While work on editing and raising new forests, construction of forest roads or, for example, scientific research works can wait a year or two until economic conditions for their intensification are restored. Finally, I would like to remind myself that as the awareness of the dangers of climate change grows, forests are increasingly gaining value because of carbon dioxide being absorbed from one stage, while others, due to biomass, are a source of renewable green energy, which is why they are significant in their efforts to curb global temperature growth. Aware of the importance of preserving not only their own, but above all of the world's forests in parts of the world where they are cut free, the Republic of Croatia proposed to the United Nations to declare an international year of forests in order to warn about their importance for the normal functioning of the eco-system but also for the economy, so the following year, as part of the international year of the forest, will maintain activities around the world that will aim to raise public awareness about this great natural resource that creates and maintains living conditions. In light of this initiative, we want to believe that we are all aware of how important it is to preserve our forests in such a state as they are now, which requires funds such as the BOX and that I repeat this reduction is only a temporary measure. So we at the HSS Club repeat we will accept and accept this proposal to amend the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55126	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. We have five reports, and as soon as we're done, we're going to vote. We announced around 12, so we expect it to be. The first in line is the distinguished representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate and esteemed fellow MPs. Before I start anything, I'd like to correct Mr. Podnar's misrepresentation now, which is that this law is prescribed by the SDP law you said. This is simply not true, because this bill and this law that will be passed is not any of your laws that used to be, but is simply a programme of economic recovery by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is aimed at creating more favourable conditions for the business of economic operators on the market and is one of the priorities in the realization of that objective. The programme defined a measure to reduce non-taxable duties, so now it's simply time to cut. Yeah, no, we didn't figure it out, we knew it, you know, while you're making it up, we're already doing it and rationalizing it, and we're realising it. Here's the only one. And now I'd be in one part of it really was a very good debate especially this last one. As regards Croatian forests, not Croatian forests d.o.o. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 3 and 52 are also mentioned in the forests which are the national wealth of this Croatia. The forests in Croatia are largely fulfilling their economic, environmental and social functions. They are governed by the Law on Forests, which is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Given the geographical location or the fact that the territory of the Republic of Croatia crosses the border between the Euro-Siberian, North-American and Mediterranean regions. We distinguish over 60 forest communities, and about 4000 500 plant species and subtypes. It is important to note that Croatia is one of the few European countries whose forests have a mostly natural structure, with a significant impact of 150 and more years of tradition of forest profession and science. This isn't about forestry itself. Namely, why does it matter? And this is the way I'd like to welcome all my friends and scientists and the foresters and the ministries that deal with forestry. It is indeed a profession that is commendable, and especially here is a colleague before me who has already said what the year of the forest will be declared on the proposal of the same profession in 2011. So we will certainly have a lot of thematic discussions in our Ecology Committee next year, but certainly also in this House. What is important and why, perhaps part of the answer, and to Mr Beus Richembergh is related to which Croatia takes care of its forests. What we have to say is certification of the forest. In 2001 a certification procedure was carried out and then the FSC certificate is a great honor which is an international recognition for forest management in line with strict criteria. It is a recognition of Croatia's forestry profession, which for generations has been responsiblely mastering this extremely important national resource. This brings Croatian forestry to the very top of the world's trends, as the entire area of the forest is certified by the FSC system. This is an exceptional result in world scales. And that's why there's no worries. Croatia takes care of its forests, Croatian foresters do it worth it. And by following the profession and science, probably our colleague knows that, too. I won't speak for long because all the predecessors have already said what was very important. So, this bill of course needs to be supported and I agree that it is short-term. It is a programme of economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it is aimed at creating more favourable conditions for the business of economic operators on the market as one of the priorities in the realisation of this objective and the programme is defined among other things by this measure. So these 25% will be reduced fees for the KEFSH. I've been asking around, and I have to say that it's going to be a little reduced in the short term, and yet enough for all those functions and orientations that it's been in so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55128	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55129	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleagues, Gjurdzica, unfortunately the laws that the SDP gave to discharging this economy were here at the Parliament, they were rejected by the ruling majority, so among them was this discharge of the economy related to forestry. However, I don't think that's the most important thing in this situation, but the question is what is mentioned is the outstanding claims that are multiplely higher than this reduction, the most important issue of this fee for which the economy will be relieved. So the question is, how did this fee go away? Why was she taken as such and spent on what? I think these are the questions to which this material should also provide an answer, that this spending of money and this reduction will be whether or not it will endanger this development of forestry. So these 50 million for these half-years that will be less delivered to forestry seem to mean something to him. However, I think that for the economy, which is why the SDP gave these laws on discharge, each kuna is significant and after this amendment of the law, I think the economy will still need to sing "woods, forests, thank you very much".
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55130	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the distinguished representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55131	Thank you, Mr. Representative, but you've replicated on a topic that at all, I haven't talked about any unpaid funds that you keep talking about. And as far as the law is concerned, I'm telling you again, clearly you've never brought it or suggested it. So it's pointless to talk about. It's absolutely groundless, and the predecessors before, if you've listened carefully, they've just said only the Ministry and the proposings on what the funds are used to, and I think they've been used well so far. This is a short-term measure and that once the situation improves, safe funds will be returned to the same. We were just talking about fire, so 5% of it went fire, demining, and rebuilding, which is very important. That's what I think you should know.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55132	Thank you. We continue the debate further individually. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. First, I heard some colleagues and colleagues who expressed hope that applying this law or reducing the contribution was only a short-term measure. This is simply not true because when the Government proposed some short-term measures, it wrote in the law that they were worth, for example, from 1 July 2010 until 31 December 2013, 2014, 2015, as was the case with the introduction of specific taxes, restrictions or freezing of pension growth. There's no such thing here. Here the government has made it clear that it will enter into force on 1 July 2010, and will be worth a long, long time. But instead of discussing the role of forests, biomass and biospheres, I would talk about finance but about this law so that I could measure the data I have on whether they are correct. Mr Secretary of State, tell me, nod only to my head, whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia has considered and adopted the Croatian Forest Report on the raised and spent funds of this contribution for 2009. There's no answer. What about 2008? If the government had considered it then they wouldn't have written a lie, a false record. It says that by reducing the contribution by 25%, the funds will be reduced or the economy will be incomed by more than 100 million kuna. That's not true. That is not true because according to the 2009 Croatian Forests plan, this contribution was planned to be collected at an amount of 359 million kuna. That's the plan of the Croatian Forests. And 25% on 359 million is not more than 100 million but less, not for 1 million, not 2, 3, 5, but for a full 11 million less than that. This is a document that I received from the minister who did not answer, he did not know how to answer my parliamentary question, so he sent me documents from the Croatian Forests. So Croatian forests planned the 2009 income of 359 million. Reporting to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, they wrote that even so-planned 359 million funds would be very difficult to realise because the data for the first quarter show stagnation in the economy and express fears that even such a modest plan will not be feasible. This is a document sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 2 April 2009. Look at me State Secretary, April 2, 2009 is addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. How were these funds used? In addition to repeating what the Forest Act predicts about payment obligations, it is my duty to say that this law provides and how, for which, who and how this money can be used. And among other things, except that it is an obligation for the Croatian forests to report to the Government once a year on the collected contribution and method of use which the Government has obviously not discussed for years because, in order not to be so radical in the data, it is prescribed that this contribution, collected from the contribution, must be used in proportion between the Croatian forests and forests in state property and forest owned by forest owners, therefore private forests. According to all the data I have so far seen and heard from the total areas of the forest in Croatia, private areas are about 22%, which means that of the total sum of 359 million in 2009 was to be spent on these functions at least 83 million kuna. And the Croatian forests planned only 50 million in the plan for private forests. The law is clear, money must be used in a proportionate share of ownership, because the private forest also has a common function and that oak and that pine and that acacia grow whether in a state or private forest in the ownership sense it has the same general useful function as the average, as well as the forest road, as well as the fire protection and therefore the law foresees proportionate consumption. But for years back, it has not been so mastery, and for years back in the ministry or you don't know or tolerate the fact that you ignore it, you don't want to answer the questions why this money is not used in accordance with the law, and even when the State Audit in its report warns that in 2007, instead of 89 million kuna, how much forest advisory service had or should have been available for those purposes, that only 6 million were legally spent and that the rest of the money was only 6.8% and that the rest of the money was spent by the Croatian forest outside the law in the state-owned forest. That's what the State Audit report says. If the government had done its job, especially you in the ministry, if you had read the Croatian Forests report and their plans would have noticed that the forest law is being violated, you would have noticed that Croatian forests abuse the fact that money goes through them, that they don't give money to the forest council service, that social money is not being invested in private property ownership, and probably for that reason you sanctioned someone, you probably wouldn't have tried to deceive it and say that it would be more than a hundred million, but somewhere up to 85 million maximum on an annual level. If the law has prescribed the obligation of the Croatian forests to report to the Government, then the government must consider and adopt the report. To a concrete question, Minister Pankretic instead of answering whether the government had considered and adopted the 2007 report, and the eighth report tells me that the Croatian forests in which they wrote that they had sent the report and that they were not familiar with it and that they had never received feedback on whether the government discussed the report or discussed it and adopted it. From the planning documents and reports and the findings of the State Audit it is quite clear that the money was not used in accordance with the law, that the situation was used I would say the purchase rights within the Croatian Forests and that forest owners each year were cut off for about 80 million kunas that were to be invested in their forests in terms of protection as prescribed by law. It is very strange, but it is really strange that you did not mention in the explanation the mention of the leadership of the Croatian forests that even the existing assets of the 359 million planned ones consider insufficient to carry out their basic function. I am now asking with reduced resources whether you will continue to tolerate that the money collected by the contribution is used only for state-owned forests and that private forests will not experience those investments prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55134	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55135	Thank you very much. So, when you talk about this 350 million kuna plan, or any money spent by Croatian forests, my colleague Lesar. In the Croatian forests there was a rule on how to allocate resources to the general useful functions of the forest. It went on for a year until the Forest Act was passed. After that, it is no longer valid and obviously what I said on behalf of the club, it is a matter of transparency of spending these funds. Do we have a rulebook, if anyone controls it, how or how it controls it, whether forest inspectors can really control it? I can't for the simple reason because they don't know what the KEFŠ funds are, which is planned on the KEFŠ, and which is planned on the cost of refurbishment of the forest. Therefore, we return to the rulebook again, we return to transparency, and then we will know exactly how the funds will be spent by private forest owners, and by some kind of invoice which, according to the present possibilities, the private forest owner turns out to be worth 200 kuna per day to be paid, i.e. work, and thus resolves the revenues for that surface. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55136	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55137	Dear fellow, you would if there were a rule book. I agree with you, but you can see that the Government has a problem not even considering the annual reports of the Croatian Forests, nor their plans, so that when it proposes and writes an explanation of the laws with which it comes before us to the Parliament, it cannot provide accurate information. And I agree that the non-transparency in choosing the spending of these funds always gives us the right to doubt even possible corrupt actions because of the huge amount of money being made there.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55138	Thank you. We're going to have an honorary representative, Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Just a few words on this subject. I am a little confused with the debate that has so far been intensified to limit the duration of this law until the end of this year only because there is one observation of this which says that the amendment of the Law on Forests will allow implementation of the plan for the implementation of the economic recovery programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, if this is something that is going on, which is the goal of restoring Croatia's economy, I don't know why they should be limited, why would it be hard to wait for this to stop. So I'm having such a debate over this one, on this statement a little conflicted. I really think that there is a possibility of better economic use of the Croatian forests and that in a certain way it has already been accessed at least in that segment, which proves the number in thousands of hectares of space under the Croatian forests, which is a stonesmith and which, by treatment, has been turned into a highly exploitable agricultural land, namely land with a agricultural purpose, for planting olive trees and for planting vineyards. I actually want to highlight the problem that is happening in such a good way, that this is not used well until the end of the territory of the Croatian forests, i.e. the forest of Croatia, has turned into a agricultural area, a useful agricultural area, and such agricultural areas should be used better in the context of the Croatian forests and all that is necessary for the concession given for this purpose. In this sense, I support this law, and I only wish that what is economically costable in the territory of Croatian forests would be even more cost-effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55140	Thank you. It's our guest, Dino Kozlevac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55141	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Vice President, representatives of the resolution body. Regarding the law that is before us today, allow me very short words. The OkFŠ function is clear, useful and it has been fulfilling, fulfilling and should in the future meet the purpose of what it was introduced for. I refer primarily to the misdemeanor and what it refers to. And the measure has produced results in many areas and activities. Therefore, it is not just a single detachment that is being singled out, but that function from the Croatian forests has had and should have its own function to improve, strengthen, increase and ensure and implement certain measures through financial means in many activities that are related to the protection of the forest. But I have to point out and say what's going on. That our law today is being passed will have direct consequences for many activities. We just had the Fire Department Act here, the amendments to the Fire Department before us, part of the percentage, and 5% of those revenues that are coming at the level of Croatian forests from the prescribed part paid by all economic operators 5% go for the operation of fire on coastal counties. That's what it means at the level of fire. Therefore, before we had a reduction of 22% of VAT, now it is inevitable that if we go linearly to reduce these financial resources, and for this activity, and will inevitably have a total reduction in the means of implementing quality measures, those implemented by a segment such as the fire department, without talking about the implementation of measures implemented by the Croatian Forests. But I suggest and pray that, based on the circumstances that have arisen, this law will result in a reduction in resources to make sure that then in isolation to other entities where this has worked so far and where this so far has been arranged not to go linearly but rather to set priorities so as not to result in certain disturbances. I refer primarily to fire protection and forest protection in the coastal area of the forest area. Because our priority is to protect especially those areas that are at risk. Among other things, with fires that are our reality. I therefore ask you to set priorities and not to disrupt the existing amount and size of funding. As far as one other part of the part I want to say is in a function in which these funds are in operation and within the total collection of funds and financing of Croatian forests, I mean the forest and advisory service that was formed in the Croatian forest. There are certain problems here, and the same should be seen as being solved in the countries of our environment. In fact, the protection of a particular area, a forest, and we all agree that they are of general interest that certain protection can not be carried out, whether it is fires, whether it is a threat from one, other things cannot be carried out on the basis of ownership principles. On the basis of the ownership principle, individual obligations may be prescribed, however, the implementation of measures, the imposition of measures, the ensuring implementation of those measures and the control of those measures must be unique for the whole area. In any event, it is necessary to consider and restore the state of play that the state must ensure that all these measures are implemented through one mechanism. In such a way that 2 institutions or 2 legal persons or 2 services are competent to implement certain measures and the measures which threaten certain areas independently of ownership relations are inadmissible because they do not ensure quality implementation of measures in a particular area. Therefore, it should return to the situation that one institution, which is the Croatian forest, or state, is responsible for implementing measures, and not in this way now that does not produce the desired effects, i.e. there are still problems, and we know that the dangers of any kind do not know neither the administrative nor the ownership boundaries. Here, very briefly. If there was a small contribution to this whole problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55142	Thank you. Here, it expired at 12.08 applications in 10 minutes. We have one replica. Mr. Vlatko Podnar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Kozlevac, when you're talking about dualism, is basically the management of forests in the area of the Republic of Croatia, but then all kinds of protection, and above all, this is about firefighting, obviously, that the forest advisory service has not done, or is not well and well imagined. There I was in Germany and in the Bavarian forest, taking care of private forests. And about the state and about the private. Thus, it is a unique approach both to management and to the protection of the forest from fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55144	That's exactly what a respected colleague is. So it's impossible to do quality management and protection. It's impossible to implement, it's proven from experience in practice. Some areas of wider, narrower, independent of the administrative borders of municipalities, cities or counties are areas, you best know as a forester, which has certain limits, certain qualities, a certain structure, etc., and in order to ensure quality protection then one institution, i.e. the state, Croatian forest, must take account of, prescribe measures, implement measures. On the basis of the ownership relationship, it shall determine and regulate the way in which the owner will participate in whether only by means of financial means or will be ordered to implement certain measures, but the State must prescribe and implement and ensure that those measures are implemented. So that's exactly what we can do, then it has to be uniquely organized. And in this way, I think there will be more problems in the future. Not to mention another problem I didn't mention, about the management, about the reproduction of the forest. And take care, and it will likely have opportunities in the future and talk about the quality of reproduction and how to reproduce the forest, or forest surfaces on the cross, especially those that are, and we all agree that the fire is one of the biggest threats that exist on the cross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55145	Thank you. We still have the final individual debate, Mr. Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55146	Too much time has been spent in the Croatian Parliament to agree on it and determine whether there is or isn't a crisis in Croatia. We also spent too much time when we found that in Croatia the crisis is, the way measures should be taken to get out of this crisis. But we finally agreed that what Croatia needs to get out of the crisis it has fallen into is the economy of the Republic of Croatia. So we agreed that we would help the economy that can only get Croatia out of this economic crisis, and in a way that we would try to free them from those non-taxable burdens that the economy is burdened with. It's just one measure in a series that it takes to get the economy a little air and run, not to mention those tax changes that are also necessary. So when we agreed that we would go with the reduction or elimination of non-taxable burdens that burden the economy, then this is one of the measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has offered to this Croatian Parliament according to its crisis exit plan. I have to say that so far we've talked, not us here that the government has abolished the water contribution, that this is one measure of repeating 245 non-taxable taxes paid by the economy. How am I supposed to tell these two owners that the government needs to be replaced so it's a little quiet? So these two possessions really do not make spring. Thus, from this bill where this fee is reduced by 25%, it seems to me that in those who receive this fee there is enough money left and that there will not be much important happening, it would be good if the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent a single law to this Parliament that 245 recognised non-taxable incomes are suspended for a year in full. It's the only measure that's going to breathe a little life into the economy like this. Because the economy in a crisis that needs a reaction right now and right now, and if we start getting to the Croatian Parliament of proposals to reduce non-taxable impositions, then it will take quite a long time, and when the last 245 comes to order, then there will probably not be any help or rescue. If they were able to introduce an unpopular measure, let's say, I will call it that, which was a harrass to the people, this people survived, then I claim that this measure 245 abolition, 245 non-taxable incomes or taxes in 100% amount will also do no great harm to those who live or who receive these non-taxable charges, because it is evident from this Law that if the people survived that they will survive both Croatian forests and all those who participate in that obligation. I think it should help the economy that way, because if we wait for 200 of these non-taxed duties to come to our agenda of the Croatian Parliament, then it will be a late reaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55147	Thank you very much. Finally, Secretary of State Herman Sušnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I thank everyone who participated in this discussion today, the amendment is very short of this Law, however, the attention was maximum, there were lots of discussions, good and quality proposals. I think that this measure, in the opening part, is said, cannot bring much for itself to help the economy, however, within the economic recovery plan that the government has adopted, along with all other measures, when the measure is implemented and one small wheel will still be a small part of the economy. There were a lot of stories here I wouldn't have owed, the new forest law would come by the end of the year. A lot of the suggestions that my colleague Podnar has made in any case will be discussed also on how to collect and spend and everything else. I would not talk about management in the Croatian forests because it is one professional thing, I can only say that it is cut far less than it is growing, that we have 400 million cubic meters of wood in the Republic of Croatia, let's say the Croatian forest itself as a commercial enterprise over 5 million cc's cut, so about 8.4 million is an increase that is far less, so this forest fund is still being preserved and increased further for future generations. 150 years of profession, that's what's mentioned. There were several questions about private forests. It says there by law that according to the percentage share but according to the management programmes for private forests, since private forests, i.e. forest advisory services only started in 2007, practically from 0. We do not have enough management programmes yet and all the money spent from the general services of the forest must be prescribed through our basic management programs and how these programmes will be done throughout Croatia for private forests, so more funds will be used. I agree with my colleague in Istria that we must do everything possible to continue to use these funds in fire protection, and they will be used accordingly. Croatian forests as the biggest consumer means trade society will rebalance the plan and will see that although smaller funds are being made to further all the jobs that have been somehow planned to continue to be quality and rational. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55149	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide something later. The final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Forests was the emergency procedure P.Z. No. 552. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Forests. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously, 108 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55153	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at its 47th session held on 9 June 2010, unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Legislatives. First, the duties of member of the Committee on Legislatives of Rade Bošnjak and a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee are hereby elected Milivove Škvorc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55154	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The committee's proposal was adopted unanimously with 108 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55155	The same session set out a unanimous proposal to relieve the duties of Justice Committee member Rade Bosnjak and to elect Milivo Škvorc as a member of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55156	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The result? This proposal was unanimously accepted with 108 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, this agenda is over for today. We continue on 30 June at 9.30 p.m. with agenda point Final draft law on amendments to the Law on memberships in tourist communities, emergency procedure. Thank you very much. I'd like to call him that for an extended weekend. Thank you very much. We move to the election and appointment point, so I ask Ms. Nevenka Majdenic to submit her proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55158	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 48th session held on 9 July 2010, the Committee for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the proposal for a decision: "The members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament Nada Čavlović Smiljanec is hereby elected as a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55159	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal. Score. This proposal was adopted unanimously by 96 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55160	The Committee's proposal is to elect Ivo Jelusic as a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55161	I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please raise your hands who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Unanimity with 108 votes. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55162	The Committee's proposal is to elect Nada Čavlović Smiljanec as a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55163	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who wants to raise a hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. Thank you. It's unanimous with 109 votes. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55164	The Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs proposes that members of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament be relieved from the order of public, scientific and professional employees Vladimir Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55165	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who wants to raise a hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. It's unanimous with 109 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55166	The Committee's proposal is to dismiss a member of the Committee on Gender Equality from the ranks of NGOs, scientific and professional institutions dealing with the promotion of gender equality and the protection of human rights, Radoslav Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55167	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who wants to raise a hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. A unanimously accepted proposal with 109 votes. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55168	The Committee's proposal is to be appointed to the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund from the ranks of representatives Vesna Buterin, Milivo Škvorc, Slavko Linić, Ivo Jelusic, from the ranks of prominent financial experts Ivan Jelenčić and Tihomir Domazet. Secondly, members of the Croatian Privatisation Fund Supervisory Board are Dragan Kovacevic, Goran Maric and Marin Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55169	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55170	Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that this time, as in the last session, we gave members of the SDP Club to the Privatisation Fund Supervisory Board. Unfortunately, in the last term, that supervisory board didn't work. He only had as much as I knew one constitutive session, and we would like to say to this occasion that, if he and the new one, he would continue to be formally elected, without having his real role as SDP representatives coming out of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-18-0.u55171	Thank you. I ask that you who will be appointed be not only there figures, but that you participate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who wants to raise a hand? Thank you very much. Against? Restraint? Nothing. Thank you very much. 109 votes unanimously. The continuation of this session is Monday at 10.00 hours with the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests in Public Liaison, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 499 and I ask the committee presidents again that all of these we adopted today as an addition to the agenda put on the agenda so that we can continue working on Monday the 12th at 10.00 p.m. I want you to have a good rest and a good rest. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we continue to work but before I give my word to Mr. Pupovac, I am obliged to draw attention to Article 223 of our Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2, which says: "The president or vice president of the club of representatives and the other representative of the club of representatives, if they are not present, is obliged to state the reasons why he is seeking a break and a proposal for the length of its duration in the presentation for a maximum of two minutes". That's what I warned you about. Secondly, Article 230.b says: "The Chair of the Assembly will not approve a recess for the meeting of the Club of Representatives if the request for a recess is submitted: a) prior to the establishment of the agenda and the transition to the agenda, which was in fact ok. Whereas the agenda has been established and has gone to the agenda, (b) for reasons relating to the work of the working bodies of the Assembly and (c) in relation to the act or statement of the representatives outside the Parliament." So it won't be approved then. Here's a reason we got someone. I'm asking Mr. Pupovec to go ahead. Here you go.
