ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46333	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. We will continue three points in a united debate - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials, first reading, P.Z. No. 498. - Proposal for a law amending the Law to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, first reading, P.Z. No. 499. - Proposal for a law amending the Law on the procedure of handing over authorities, first reading, P.Z. No. 500. The promoter is the Government, the debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Proposer representative, Administration Minister Davorin Mlakar will further explain the proposals of these three laws. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for the opportunity to unite the three Laws in this introductory presentation because it is actually a matter of implementing government decisions on the fact that government officials are no longer in the boards of directors or supervisory boards of companies that are fully majority or part of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the Ministry of Administration has proposed amendments to the three Laws. One is the Law on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, the other is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Officials and is the Third Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedure of Handling of Authorities. Let me put it this way: these are technical changes, so we have deleted the possibility of government officials being members of the boards of directors or supervisory boards of commercial companies and that law enforcement, public tenders for all these positions, or for all those places, and that, according to the public tender, the selection of new people in these corporate management bodies, until then, officials remain in that position by selecting new people by public tender, their duty in those companies ceases. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46335	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? I'm opening a debate. Club of representatives of HSS, Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46336	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia sent the Croatian Parliament with this Legislative Proposal and the Proposal for a Law to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties and on the procedure of handing over authorities, which make up one whole of their content, or determine the position of state officials in the supervisory boards of commercial companies. Appreciation of the general commitment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to more professionalised management of companies, i.e. by more effective supervision of the work of companies which are predominantly state-owned or in which the state has a majority share or a package of shares, and that these transactions within companies are entrusted to experts selected in a public tender. The HSS representative club supports the adoption of these laws. By way of effect of these laws, officials will not be able to be members of the Supervisory Board while they will be extremely able to be members in a maximum of two administrative councils, institutions or supervisory boards of extra-financial funds. If these institutions and these funds are of particular national interest. Unless a special law provides that an official is a member of a board of directors, an institution or a supervisory board of an extra-financial fund in a position and as regards some ministers who, within their area of competence, have such institutions or extra-account funds established and whose membership and position within them is determined by a specific regulation. Furthermore, as so far in these exceptional cases, officials for their work in the administrative councils of institutions or supervisory committees of extra-financial funds will not exercise the right to any compensation other than the right to compensation for travel and other costs. This Law also stipulates that state officials who are members of the supervisory boards of commercial companies are mostly state-owned or in which the State has a majority stake, i.e. the package of shares ceases membership on those committees on the date of appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards on the date of appointment of new members of the Supervisory Boards after the public tender. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club are firmly convinced that the transparent implementation of public tenders for new members of the supervisory boards selected by the criteria of professionality and high moral quality will be one of the key cornerstones of the faster removal of the global economic crisis in these companies and the strengthening of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. We therefore believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will open the public tender soon and after the entry into force of this Act. In accordance with what I have now stated, I believe that this law will improve the work of the boards of directors of the boards of directors and therefore the Club of Representatives of the HSS will support this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46337	Thank you. The club of HDZ Representatives Mrs. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46338	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the amendments to these three laws that are before us, so the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State officials, the Law amending the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the Law amending the Law on the handover of the Government and the proposal to amend these laws is seemingly a small technical amendment, but it confirms by adopting this Croatian Parliament the commitment of the Croatian Government to its programme and it is a matter of further depoliticalisation of public affairs, public administration and public affairs, that the Government stands at the point of view that in the modern market economy the task of the state and the public sector in the economy is clear, creating favourable conditions for entrepreneurship which assumes the responsibility of business risks, strengthening institutions and their efficiency in monitoring of the needs of the economy and ensuring social justice. Of course, the Croatian State, the Government and this Parliament must manage the supervision and care of public resources, certainly one of these public resources is also public enterprises owned by the state or largely owned by the state. But in the wake of a clear commitment to the transparency of work, the further strengthening of all institutions to prevent conflicts of interest of government officials is also the result of these proposed changes. The membership of state officials in the supervisory boards of companies outside the budget funds and the institution has a long history. We can read it through the first adoption of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Croatian Officials, and then through the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Law on the Handover of Government. And we see that somewhere in '98. He prescribed the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials that they should not be yet in '98. that they are not allowed to be part of the Supervisory Board, unless the law specifically requires them. In 2000, the law was amended in a way that it was said that state officials could be without restrictions from members of the supervisory board in all companies where the state is owned or weighed by the owner. Afterwards, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests was passed, which as a whole regulated the matter as a special law. This law for the first time found that officials should not be members of the Supervisory Board except exclusively for companies established by this Croatian Parliament that this is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. They were then introduced, so there was a restriction, then it was liberalised again to trace new measures to prevent conflicts of interest in 2008 this Croatian Parliament adopted amendments to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which limited membership in supervisory committees for officials to no more than two supervisory committees. This law now proposes that officials cannot be members of the supervisory board of commercial companies at all, and that the Government will appoint its representatives by the basis of its ownership in these supervisory committees or the basis of established public interest, i.e. the state interest here at the Croatian Parliament, as resolution ministers but on the basis of a fair public tender. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports these changes, but we warn that the law is in the first reading, there is room, there is time for its completion. So here it remains unsaid, so nothing about how to conduct a public tender, about what will be the conditions, what are the conditions for the conduct of a certain membership duty on the Supervisory Board, who will prescribe them, etc. Furthermore, I would say a few nomotechnical remarks that these laws would ultimately be implemented by what the legislator intends, and so will our intention by passing this law. And this is, above all, a nomotechnical arrangement in a way that the Proposer thinks about whether these laws should be amended, because the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is, in fact, the whole matter of preventing conflicts of interest regulated by this law as a special law. And the matter that was once regulated by the Law on Obligations and Rights of Croatian Officials was put outside the scope of the law, so the law would not need intervention. In addition, the relationship in Article 11. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which speaks about membership in companies, administrations and supervisory boards of companies, this is an opportunity I would say more precisely and more happily to resolve this article no-technically. Therefore, that article states that officials cannot be members of management and supervisory boards of commercial companies, and that the following paragraph would say that, exceptionally from that provision, they may be in certain conditions and members of boards of directors or supervisory boards outside the budget funds or boards of directors of the institutions, and that they are not, in fact, generally, prevented from doing so. Therefore, it should generally be prevented, and then, in the next position, the exceptions to that general obstacle should be prescribed. Therefore, as is now proposed by the amendments, at the most in two supervisory committees outside the budget funds and two administrative councils, the Council of Institutions, unless a special law provides that an individual official is in place under the position of the ex-legislator. I also point to a solution in the Law on the handover of authorities where it should be considered and what about making the mandate available. Therefore, it regulates the making available of the terms of office of presidents and members of supervisory committees, so where officials will no longer be able to be, and therefore, in the Law on the handover of the authorities, the words are deleted, which is fine. However, neither the existing law nor these amendments have anything to say about the availability of the mandate of officials who, following the amendment of the law, can now be members of the boards of directors, or supervisory committees outside the budget funds, and this should be considered as a whole until the second reading. For this reason, I propose that on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club that will support this, we support this law, because it implements and operationalises the principled commitment of the Croatian Government and this Parliament on the depolitisation of public affairs and on the further fight against corruption by strengthening the transparency of all public affairs, and this certainly includes the management of companies in which the state has a heavy or overall ownership and which are of particular national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46339	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46340	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. The SDP representative club absolutely supports changes in the sense that public companies must make radical changes in their business and in their way of functioning and around them. Politics must go out of public businesses but SDP's club believes these proposed laws would tell us with a fig in its pocket. For what? First of all, the HDZ government has managed public enterprises the way we see it for the past six years. The results are visible these days and someone said in the fight against corruption and in the worse results of these companies. The HDZ government has managed these companies and the result of this management has been seen in recent months. And that's why we can't agree to have collective amnesia, like here we're trying, we want to change things, but for six years we haven't done anything, we've led to criminal activities happening in public enterprises, public enterprises doing worse every year, to get weaker results, but here we want the best. After six years, gentlemen, that's pretty unconvincing. What's the situation in public enterprises? When we combine the results of this policy's impact for six years the HDZ authorities showed in 2008 compared to 2007, the profit of less than 387 million kuna was shown, i.e. the profit of 287 million kuna in these public enterprises. But that analysis dropped INA because I guess the state only fell to 44% of the property. If INA had been calculated in 2008 the profit would not have been 287 but would have been more than 600 million kuna. Here, this is the result of the HDZ government's six-year management of public enterprises, over 600 million kuna losses in public enterprises in 2008. What SDP's anticipated and addressed to this session is an interpretation that will be discussed in the coming days in the Assembly that some things must change. They have to change, I said politics must get out of public companies but in a certain way. We said that the government should do an analysis of the work of the supervisory boards and change those supervisory committees that do not do their business, which do not do their job but not the supervisory boards but the administrations should go to a public tender. The government responds through a representative in a public firm assembly appointed by the Supervisory Board, says there must be professional people and a public tender must be conducted with clear indicators for public business administrations and therefore we say that this law with the figure is in the pocket. This will not change the incompetent administrations of public companies, but as a tender for supervisory committees, which will then cover these incompetent administrations that are currently in operation and that we can read about every day in the newspapers and watch reports in public information shows. On the other hand, which is why we say the fig is in your pocket. Well, gentlemen don't even write deadlines here when these boards are gonna change. He says he will be elected in public tenders but he does not say when, in any way, he simply writes that the existing supervisory committees will act on their duty until the end of the term of office and can act on their duty until these new supervisory committees in public tenders are elected. Absolutely, it is a figure in the pocket because it is not known how long, let's say, Minister Schuker will be the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Croatia's insurance because we see what results this company has, or what information about the business of these companies in recent days. It is unknown how long Minister Schuker will be chairman of the INA Supervisory Board. We see what INA's results are that it doesn't pay a debt to the state budget, it's the biggest debtor but it's said he will act as a duty until new supervisory committees are appointed. It could be a year, a year and a half. That's why we say this is a figure in the pocket or throwing sand into the eyes and not wanting things to be put on the right act and making changes happen. This is simply what the government senses now that the public is looking for and making a proposal that will in practice not properly or live. That's what another piece of information is saying. After Prime Minister Kosor came out with the first initiative to change and choose as supervisory committees in public tenders after two days, he proposed Minister Shuker as chairman of the INA Supervisory Board. So is it ladies and gentlemen essentially the right intention or what we've called the motions with a fig in your pocket, create an image, make a PR spin, turn out to be successful and nothing's actually going to change. Another thing we definitely can't be about and why we're saying there's a fig in our pocket again. It is said to be a change, meaning the draft law amending the Law on the procedure for handing over the Government. Well, this is where we're supposed to strip things all the way. The government, the current government that will call these tenders, I say, is not known for a year, a year and a half until the next parliamentary elections, at that moment, will appoint its people to the supervisory boards and then move from the Law on the handover of the authorities to make these people available to the new authority that comes and takes responsibility for the state and public enterprises. In a way, HDZ wants to embalm the situation and maintain control after losing the vote for four years in public enterprises. It has no authority anywhere in the world, and no government can take responsibility for the state after it has taken over power and retains the people that have been appointed by the former government, so I would say there is another figure in the pocket trying to plant it in a way that I say HDZ remains and influences public companies and after they pass the next parliamentary elections. It's just not possible. As for experts and what the SDP is looking for in its interpretation, the SDP is asking in its interpretation to analyse the work of all public companies and that administrations and supervisory committees, primarily supervisory committees where people have not satisfied their work because essentially working on the Supervisory Board is work. It is impossible for officials to take part in the Supervisory Board in a way that only participates in the vote. Well then we have quite often, here we have colleagues from the Parliament who are, say, on the HEP Supervisory Board, so they don't know about the business of 500, 600 million kuna. What happened, how did it go? Ask management, so that's impossible. The board's job is to oversee the business of the company. He must be in the living room, and I would even say maybe not on a daily basis, but on a weekly basis involved in the work of the company he oversees. And because of this simple state officials are unable to participate in the work of the Supervisory Board, and this has been a practice so far we have seen almost always. Here is a colleague who defended this proposal in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a member of the Supervisory Board of Croat Airlines, and she said she had not met herself at the appointment and that it was very difficult to get acquainted with the company's business and I don't think it's possible to conduct such a quality duty. For this reason, we said in the SDP, there is a need to change the supervisory committees in almost all companies in public, to put professional people in charge of them, because policy is responsible for those who oversee the business of public enterprises because public companies are owned by state, or indirectly by citizens, Croatian citizens, and on the other hand to call public competitions, to call public tenders for administrations. And we think that this law is trying to protect incompetent administrations, i.e. that the system that has been in place so far in the ruling coalition continues to function, which is for us at HDZ, this company, you and HSLS, that firm, and we at HSS, that firm, and that way, they share companies. This is the figure in the pocket, that such a state is cemented and that questions are no longer asked whether the administrations in Croat Insurance, Croatian Forests, Croatian lottery are capable of politics, whether they are prominent members of politics. I don't mind if someone pleases as a prominent member of a political party, but the competition applicates and passes, with its qualifications and experience satisfies the place to behave, but we have mostly witnessed that people who have never had anything to do with insurance come to the head of the Board of Croatia Insurance, and then year by year this company achieves worse results, to sink ships suddenly after signing policies, etc., so we have to call these things a real name. And the SDP advocates' club believes that these laws are simply proposed with the figure in its pocket, to cement the existing situation and to retain the influence of this authority, HDZ, after the next parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46341	Thank you. Three corrections. First Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46342	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maras said a series of inaccuracies. I'll just try for two because I don't have time. First, that this is a figment in the government's pocket. No, it's a melanoma on the wound. Second of all, they've led to criminal operations in public enterprises in the last six years. Well, that's not true. Let's remind ourselves of your time while you were in power of how many supervisory committees were representatives right from your party. So in a dozen, I'll give you a list here where you have individual officials sitting in the Assembly today, on a dozen supervisory boards. There was a group in your party that suggested a good idea that politicians should not be on boards, so ask, unfortunately, the late prime minister you are not dying to ask why he didn't accept it. It's not to control, to control these companies and control them. So let's not make a big deal out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46343	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46344	Thank you very much. My colleague Kunst did not correct any allegations but gave his opinion ten years ago about what was going on. I'll remind you, Mr. Kunst, your party sold out all the companies in Croatia 15 years ago, so we're not talking about it right now. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46345	Peace, please. Thank you. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, it's a replica on a replica, and don't do it all the time. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46346	Thank you very much. Here I go... Inaccurate quote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I quote a colleague, Maras, "Six years in public enterprises, there are criminal acts going on." Not six, but I've been following for ten years, I'm not talking about a war period. In your day, criminal activities were not manifested through various affairs, but by selling the most qualitative parts of public enterprises to foreign owners. "Croatian telecom" in majority ownership, and 25% strategic package, it's more crime than anything that's happened since it's more damage to Croatia. Secondly, I quote: "Croatia Insurance, we see negative business results." That's not true. Probably a colleague, Maras, wants all partners to turn down Croat Insurance. Positive business, I'm a member of the Supervisory Board, so I can quote you, in increasing markers, so market share and no criminal action proven. Everything that has been launched has started because of one person, not because of the business of Croat Insurance, and it is very harmful for the insurance market in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46347	And Mr. Representative Josip Djakić, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's an incorrect assumption that these legal proposals are with a fig in their pocket. In fact, these are the real real legal proposals that want to change the state that has so far ruled, that professional people really enter the supervisory boards and control the work of the administration to be fair in the future and to be consistent in the performance of their tasks. So far, no one has had the strength to do this, except for the government's proposal that wants to really change the important situation without any figure in your pocket like you kept it all the time in your term.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46349	IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46350	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, MPs. I'm not a member of any supervisory board or councilman in any congregation or headship, they're not well anymore. So... And I haven't come to power yet, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So in case I don't have anything against this law, we're going to normally back it up. However, we also have the right to certain, how can I say, suggestions. We have three laws here. This is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials, then it is the Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests in the conduct of public duties and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Procedure of Handover of Authorities. What is the essence of this is just expressed in this Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials where Article 1 literally states that officials cannot, I quote: "be members of the Management Board or of the Supervisory Board of Commercial Companies", and paragraph 4 states: "extremely officials may be members of up to two boards of directors of institutions, i.e. the Supervisory Board of Extra-Programme Funds". And these are the meanings of Croatia as they are called water, Croatian Health Insurance, Pension Insurance, Employment, etc. Thus, extra-financial funds which are of particular national interest unless the special law provides that the official is a member of the Governing Council of institutions, or the Supervisory Board outside the budgetary fund in a position. For membership in administrative councils, institutions or supervisory committees of extra-financial funds, an official shall not be entitled to any compensation other than the right to compensation, etc. And that's a done quote. Now, those who, too in this assembly, claim that everything bad comes from officials all the time, it seems a little too much to me, perhaps those in power when it comes to local self-government, those who have the power down there. But I think it's true what I know in between. For example, were officials members of the Podravka Administration? Some are, but as we all know, they're not. Were they officials at the head of the Podravka Supervisory Board? No, they're not. They were professionals, they were university professors. I don't mean Mr. Jurcic here. Mr. Jurcic has been working more than correctly, well in the last half-year I don't know. And I think those people, we see now, were ideal for this big game in Podravka. That's the point. These people, I see, were not really influenced except in choice. Come on, you can influence the official all the time. This second one plays some subjective, objective responsibility. The first one doesn't really play anything. A game with public competitions that are about to occur now can or through these public competitions can now have even more impact on these people than this has ever been the case. Here I read today in a business diary in the first chair in Croatia insurance comes or that chair gets Curkovic or the daughter of Šime Krasic. Whether these people are in some political group or not, I don't know. But I guess they have some kind of political worldview, too. I think it's only now that politics will determine who or whose will it is, as I don't know about choosing a state's attorney. These outside the budget funds that I was talking about there, let's say officials can be. I understand when someone, I think Mrs. Lovrin mentioned that at the time of the government's chairmanship, Mr. Matesha was in '98. If I'm not mistaken, I passed the law that all officials must get out of those supervisory committees. That's what we were talking about, so it's because he belongs. I don't know any technical management currents. We understand that. That's for sure, come on. It wasn't good or bad at the time. There is a change in the third power of January. Here comes Mr. Racan. Things have changed. The truth is, what Mr. Kunst was saying was that some ministers were at 17, 18, 19, even a recordman was on 22 monitoring committees. And that certainly wasn't good. But the public sector worked far better than it did until January 3rd or after the change of power in 2003. Here comes Mr. Sanader. It's back to, like, management or tech managers, and I don't know who, and we see what's going on right now. So what now? Hitting on the other side on the parliamentary system alone is not wise either. We said that some, now that these presidential elections were held, some presidential candidates wanted to question the political system by moving the parties and I guess leave it to entrepreneurship. Which one? The same one that turned or emerged from the conversion. Now we've been building on it further, so on and so forth. I argue that the worst that can happen to Croatia, God forbid that this parliamentary system will be destroyed. I said, I'm not on any supervisory committee or I want to be, because I believe that there is a clear need to take responsibility for the bad, not just for the good. But I also agree that not everything can be removed from the people who are in politics and have that legitimacy. If we were to go this far, then neither should I, nor should this Parliament. Then we're all too tall. Then we can leave everything to the capital, etc. etc. I'm listening to some people who would buy Podravka today, and they come from these technical management structures. Well, I can't believe those transparent games that just nobody sees it. We now have the same interesting phenomenon around the Council of Croatian Radio Television. Is the Council of Croatian Radio Television without politicians more credible than it was with them or vice versa? I don't think it's good for either of us, but we should really start taking responsibility for what we did or didn't do. Another question arises, for example, who will take responsibility for the management of the Supervisory Board on "May 3rd" or I do not know the shipyards in Trogir or Split for 2000 kuna. Who will take responsibility for themselves, etc. So what now? Dispose, and influence on choice, I think if we stick around, it's the same at the very least doubtful that I don't use any harder words. Being, not bearing responsibility is also what I would say more than problematic. I even dare say that the public will always be better cared for by someone in the policy order than by the capital of the relationship, so the conversion mostly involved those people who led these systems until then and what did they do? They've destroyed the horror, and I'm saying that on the other hand, these same systems have remained, say, socially or stately, that all of us in this country would be better off. But I agree that politics has always been the one that a company will belong to. That's how it's likely to be with this law. Politics clearly now formally raises its hands from these public systems, but the responsibility of these public systems is raised or washed by us, and on the other hand we reserve the right to influence those public tenders, so it will be our way again. The paradigm of what I'm trying to say or what I'm trying to say, I kind of see in Podravka. The managers for whom the media, when they were set up in 2002, 2003, and after that they put their hands in the fire, now we see that they brought it somewhere to a pillar of survival. Now it's all about Polancec, okay, but who was setting these managers up? I claim they were made by politics. And what did they do? In five, six years, those same people wanted to take over these companies. The same will happen to us with this law. The managers will say in two or three years, as in the case of Podravka, they will also come into politics to take over what politics has left for them at some point. That I am not far from the truth is likely to bear witness to this information from the European Union, which permanently insists that all major public systems in the Republic of Croatia must privatise. And who's he going to go after? To those who lead them. I claim that politicians, let's say, are at the head of such systems, would still be able to defend something, and this is the question that will eventually be. That's why I'm absolutely not against being misunderstood, to reduce someone's membership in the supervisory board, but I'm against all officials moving from the supervisory boards, and it's mostly impossible when it comes to these extra- budget funds, even though we know that in the 1990s, the biggest problems, when it comes to privatisation, were just creating this pension system or the Pension Insurance Fund. On the other hand, if we look at today's reality in the Republic of Croatia, of 19 large public enterprises, for which the Government is responsible, in 18 companies headed by these companies are people from either HDZ or HSLS or HSS. In only one large system at the head of the same system is an individual who declares himself, under quotes, as independent. Now who are we bringing the law against? Against these people, even though I'm not running from the truth, it's probably a similar thing at some local level. What we have today when it comes to controlling these public systems I would dare say, even worse than what was at the time of socialism. Then until '90. For years it may have been possible for someone in a system to be a director without being a party member, today we see that it is almost impossible. Although all of them, until they reach the position of that director or what they already need, are, by then, party people, responsible for this or for that, when they reach those functions immediately become experts. So I said, no one would fix me here if it were similar at local level, but that the minister is not a member of the Supervisory Board doesn't mean that this system will work better than he is in it. So instead of these competitions, I think the results should be constantly valued by the success of a particular company. And that's all that matters to me. Here I am now reading some controversy that the directors of the Oilies should be reduced their wages. And why would someone cut their wages if they were able to deliver a 900 million kuna ship? Or $180 million per ship. It's just like the one I know of May 3 or Brodosplit delivers four or five ships. Therefore, I think that some other principles should be related to this law. It doesn't matter to me whether the chairman of the Supervisory Board is a politician or not, the point is that this company works, and if there's a possibility behind this law, let's say the next day, I know that maybe no one's thinking about a comprehensive privatisation, that's what needs to be warned. In one word, the effects of this law cannot be monitored only in 2010 but also with what will happen in '11, '12, '13, and I am sure that some of these companies that are now going to get some new management are going to be in a position to privatise these systems, or for example. Like Mr. Mudrinic, after privatizing to continue running the company again now for a new owner. It's gonna happen and that's why I'd... to remove these circumstances in some way and without such a provision in this law, I think one such law is not complete and will cause problems for us, and perhaps it would be good to even discuss this law in the third reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although as I said the IDS Club will support the same and in principle we are against these provisions, it also does not guarantee that the system will be more successful the next day than the functioning of this crisis in 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46351	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46352	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have three short legislative proposals, i.e. proposals to amend the three laws, which open up a whole series of issues and actually give cream to the MPs to talk about very important problems that operate in the control and management of public capital on behalf of the citizens. At first, I would like to say that the Croatian People's Party will welcome and support these changes, but what should be said is that the spirit of these changes is very problematic. These changes can only happen to be cosmetical, not essential, and we want to warn you because the approach is too technical, because the approach is unthinkable, unthinkable, and it leaves room for later manipulation and the abuse of these new provisions in these three laws. This is an opportunity to talk about some of the major problems facing systems that we call public enterprises, and in order to understand this, we need to look the truth into the eyes and say that many of these problems have arisen from a legal school of opinions that has formed the practice of companies in the Republic of Croatia, with which we have to deal to this day. For years, we were assured that the Company Act is an ideal framework in which freedom of entrepreneurship and quality control of public capital will be achieved. Something the opposite happened, not just in the private sector. This school of opinion of the professors I won't mention my name to here, has produced Kutle and all the problems that have occurred in conversion and privatisation, but has also led to the current atmosphere in which we open new affairs every day in public enterprises. Because the management model, the surveillance model isn't finished and leaves a lot of space for abuse. There's only one illustration. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 132 which guarantees the right of citizens to local self-government, i.e. self-government, by exercising this right through representative bodies of local and regional self-government, is today mocking those who defend the model by which a member of the company's assembly is mostly owned by a unit of local or regional self-government only one person. Was he the municipal chief, mayor or mayor. And they mock the Constitution, despite the judgment of the Supreme Court in 2004, and it is the Supreme Court that evens the case law, that the Constitution continues to be mocked by the registers of commercial courts as they will in relation to the so-called The conference of trade courts where the note was chief advisor, the consultant was just the professor I'm talking about, but I'm not going to tell him his name. It's a nakarada and it's like this story. It's usually said and that's one broad opinion, that the state is a bad master, but it would be more accurate to say a bad state is a bad master. The good state takes care of the public interest and preserves public capital, multiplys it for the benefit of citizens, and the bad state turns public enterprises into a tank in that reserve cage from which they will be seized when it cannot be from the budget. In order to reconcile and reconcile different interests that do not have much in common with the public interest. It is necessary to be honest and acknowledge both at regional and local as well as at national level a whole series of abuses occur. At local and regional level, as if we don't see what's happening in public enterprises and how it's treated by local and regional policies, this same problem may be because absolute amounts are less money, and here at the state level, we're fascinated by the amount of funds being drained or eventually lost by public capital. But the fact is that public companies have become in many situations and in many areas lazy political parties where there is division among coalition partners who control who. This leads to a cartoon in the management of public capital. It could be said that no one is amnesty when it comes to political parties, few who manage to resist this challenge to put their own man at the head of the administration, the board of directors or other duties in public enterprises, in order not only to control the business of these companies but perhaps also to abuse the capital they have. Scandals and circuses we've been experiencing in recent weeks are mostly related to public enterprises. For undertakings, i.e. companies in part or in bulk owned by the State. It turns out that many of these companies have operated in a way that they have been connected with the pipes through which social, i.e. public money has been poured out for different private interests. There were some affairs last year and before last year, remember, in which we found that the ministers knew nothing. They were sitting on boards of companies that were in the middle of an affair, but they were defending themselves from knowing anything. The question is, what were they doing there? Or maybe it's a provision that denied them compensation, an alibi for them not to work on boards. That they don't follow what's going on in public enterprises, that they don't oversee the work of management. Of course, politics, executive and professional policy needs to be removed from public companies as far away as possible. It's precisely because of these experiences, but the question is, why are we chasing two things with each other? Because moving state officials and politicians from the supervisory boards is one question, and the way members of these supervisory committees are elected is another issue. It's called a public competition here. I'd be happier if there was a public call for public interest, not a public competition because we don't know what the criteria of public competition are. We do not know at what time, and they cannot be identical for all public enterprises because certain specific expertise is expected and, above all, honesty if public money management is considered. What do we do? In a public competition, we'll pick people by success in managing? So Remetinec is full of managers of the year and full of those who took high places in Zapi's gold books of entrepreneurship mostly by buying their positions in those books. It is obvious that this kind of public recognition is not and cannot be the only criterion when we talk about someone that can be a successful or less successful manager. There's a question of honesty here, that people who sit there know their jobs. Is it normal for the board of directors of my city's utility company to have the sons of local political officials, boys of 20 who have nothing to do with the business of these companies? Is it normal for the HDZ coalition partner to do exactly that in these companies? It's not. Are we going under this cover tomorrow so the state officials don't go putting up some sons, relatives, etc. Or we'll understand that politics must also have a responsibility in this matter, and the government cannot now make provisions for state officials to be members of the supervisory board and wash their hands of responsibility from the management of these companies, no. It is right now that responsibility should be strengthened because it is necessary to understand that the supervisory boards should place people of honor, honesty, professions that will take care of public money but for them corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As she was responsible until yesterday for all these officials who were on the boards of directors, so tomorrow she will be fully accountable for the new members of the Supervisory Board. The question arises whether these provisions will force many public, many public companies to increase the funds necessary for the compensation of members of the Supervisory Board. Namely, who will report to the competitions, which will be the motive of the people who report to the competition, for a member of the Supervisory Board since it is not a professional duty, it is not a job, these are the obligations for which compensation is received. In many cases, it is symbolic fees, especially when it comes to regional and local levels. But the one who doesn't work and the fee of 1,000 kuna is as big as the house. And every money, every kuna comes from the public business budget. The government must be aware that it can happen that it will have to increase the funds of all these public companies precisely for compensation in order to obtain a quality fit. And the other we have no knowledge of the potential criteria, whether they will be able to enter the supervisory boards and people who have their own interests in other business systems that compete on the market. Public companies owned by the Republic of Croatia but also local and regional self-government are increasingly exposed to market laws, are increasingly monopolies, more and more must be responsible for their business moves through the public procurement system. How we will preserve public enterprises from the influence of private capital that is opposed to the market. These are all questions the government owes an answer to, and in this sense the CNS expresses certain reserves according to this new solution because it is not defined, we will support it in principle but we will also look for hair in the egg by the first time and see if this principle guarantees any improvement and be sure that we will not be silent about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46353	Thank you. One correction from Mrs. Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46354	Mr Vice-President, I am correcting the incorrect quote: "The registers of commercial courts do as they please and violate the constitutional provisions on the right to local self-government". This is therefore incorrect, and not only is it incorrect but it is both rude or rude to judges and courts, the registers of commercial courts are doing exactly in accordance with the law on commercial societies, the job of senior courts is to unify the case law which the High Court of Commerce did. So, registering as the law on commercial courts says, who is a member of the assembly is the owner, the legislator under the Law on Local Self-Government is the mayor, and apparently there are problems when the ratios of the political forces under the new law on the election of mayors have changed, so the presidential body can no longer influence the mayor as it could, but then the path to resolving this problem in amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government which will then regulate that representation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46355	HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46356	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, today we are discussing the three laws covered by me to say in one package, and in fact when we discussed the Public Procurement Act the other day, the Law on Public Private Partnership, the Law on concessions, then the following three laws, in particular the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, are so compatible, and how would the people say as a hammer and an anvil, precisely in the sphere of what is happening so loudly and so numerously on our political and social scene. And that's corruption and crime in public enterprises, I can tell everyone. Here's the latest example of Đakovština, where someone said on this show "Sunday at 2" blacked out 700, 800 wagons of grain, it's a composition from Đakova to Strizivojna if it were to go beyond one metre apart between these 13, 14 grain compositions. Although there's a country with a share of 1/3, so the state is owned by one third and has its own people on the board of supervisors. Is it the governance model itself, or is it the wrong model in which supervisory boards and boards and separate administrations exist? In fact, here someone has been discussing that in the last six years, this is actually all happening even though it's been revealed for the last six months. What's been going on for six years, I don't know. But it is quite certain that in this country, given that there is a drastic one, one to say brutal partothocracy, that it has not been and has not been excluded from the period or period of time from 2000 to 2003, therefore the political elite political oligarchy is known to be setting up and setting up supervisory committees, administrative councils as levers of parallel government in the state. It's an extended arm of government in public enterprises. And what happened to the extended arm of government in public enterprises, companies, funds as it says here in these three categories? What happened? These affairs happen, scandals occur, such affairs and such corruption scandals that cost Croatia and the Croatian people and Croatian citizens a tenth of the state budget, 12 billion say Kuna, if not more. And when everything is revealed, it will be quite safe and much more. Is it the model of that management where politics has its fingers? It's either people, or it's wrong of what I was saying the other day after this pay phone, that apart from debt slavery, we've fallen into moral slavery. So people understood their role in supervisory committees and boards as a place where they could work in terms of nepotism, clientism and all the other issues that stem from it, and they were actually covered by the ruling party or by what someone said here to those other ambitious parties who joined the ruling party. That's how it was during the SDP that we understood each other. Almost the same ones that were now and with HDZ were almost the same with the SDP. So let's not just... It is true that this law when good promoters actually raised him to the public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He didn't say fig in his pocket, it's more cosmetics. And as someone said cementing the existing state that once again if someone comes to power, they can re-propose these parliamentary benches about amending the law, about amending the law. And then what happens? Same again. So, nothing is definitely, nothing is finally. Every new set will do the same. How do you do this in this country, how do you measure the work of the administration, and how do you measure the work of the supervisory committees? Do we have instruments to measure that? Do we have sanctions? Do we have measures that can be taken if these things happen in public enterprises, institutions, companies and extra budget funds of the Republic of Croatia? We don't. Well, there's no responsibility. Is there a scale on which the work of the Supervisory Board, the board of directors, is assessed? There isn't. Well, we're not worth the mayor's work. ... Is that what it is? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or every year, every two years. They say it's democracy, so the election will show. So until the election comes in four years, the state and local government and regional self-government go where they don't need to go. And actually the same things bad governance, nepotism, clientelism and all those corruptions, etc. It happens completely mirrored equally at the level of local self-government and as someone said regionally. Although it's not, it's county, which we fool ourselves into regional when we don't have a region. It is the counties, 20 counties and the city of Zagreb. So it's funny to talk about regional self-government. That's what someone called it. So in this country that extended arm of the executive authority either in the state, in the county or in the city or in the municipality, that parallel lever of government, was actually a cover for a single phenomenon that I would almost say to us legalized and could hardly be called the right name, but it's also called money laundering. Croatia has become when it is actually seen and looked, the largest money launderer would say so. And according to the size of the country and the number of inhabitants in Europe. You don't wash machines, you wash money. She can't do laundry. You wash it, and money is money. So, how come we here regardless of party membership how to do, how to make the best model for administrations to do their job in these companies, companies? And how do you make them professional, competent, honest and responsible? It's about the citizens' money. So 25% of the Republic of Croatia is poor, not at the edge of poverty, but in poverty. 12 billion kuna, you might think. What is Croatia's budget deficit? 8.9 billion. With us, corruption has eaten 12 billion kunas. It's really some kind of law that somehow tries to get a little blurry on the eyes. There will be no more politics, no more ministers, etc. He can only behave two duties. Although it is true that in the former term of office, the assembly, when the SDP was in power, were ministers who were also on 22 supervisory boards. Now it's down to two of these proposals. But let's all think deeply about how the whole system changes and not just the system, but also the consciousness of those who enter the supervisory boards. What will the contests solve? Well, they're not defined, they're not perfect. That guideline will be a public tender for a member of the Supervisory Board. What are the criteria for a member of the Supervisory Board? What are the deadlines for the execution of the competition? Who's going to evaluate the board of directors? What kind of grades will he get? What if the company gets into trouble, what happens to the board of directors? So we have so many young educated people in this country who are looking for a way abroad, a way to overseas countries because they can't get into those companies where clearly, and in all of them, politics works. It's about office nepotism, clientism, and if you haven't bowed down here as a person, as a man, then you won't get a job, at a hospital, or at a state firm, or anywhere else. Is that our country? Is this the state of Croatia we fought for? That killed 15,000 people. Where are we? When I went to Velebit as a specialist, I thought when we were freed, when we freed our provinces, Croatia would be better than Switzerland in five years. And what are we now? So, adopt or not adopt. I'll be restrained because this doesn't change anything. These bill proposals don't really change anything. Well, in that case, the HDSSB, there's nothing really to vote on, will be restrained. But we're looking for even deeper, even more radical changes in this country and in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46357	At 10:36 p.m., it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46358	If someone didn't think I was crazy, this is just because the trial started for Joci Amsterdam, I'm just asking it to start as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46359	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46360	On the other hand, a colleague corrects an incorrect assumption. That was one poetic painting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46361	You're correcting an incorrect quote. You should immediately state which quote you are correcting without any poetic allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46362	Now I'll fix the quote just give me the time back, Mr. Vice President. So, a colleague said it disappeared somewhere between 700 and 800 wagons of grain. It's gone between 15 million and 20 million kunas of peasant wheat and about 900 wagons of stock. The government is responsible for this because it owns the Đakovština state of 32%. And several times she rescheduled Djakovština and supported the administration that blacked out not these 900 wheat wagons but blacked out somewhere between a billion and a billion and a half kuna. And there, on the board of directors, there were two girls who received a high fee, and that was set up by the government. It was the same government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46363	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46364	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Several times today it has been said here but in public three of these laws depicted as a means to reach that magical formula of politics outside public companies. I have to admit that I have reviewed these short laws several times but that in no sentence I have found a formula that would really lead to a situation in which, by applying these laws, politics leaves public companies. In fact, it is a usually fired-out impasse for the media needs of a new demonstration of God's desire to clean up suspicious activities and crime in public enterprises. It is only that these laws hinder state officials, so government members, parliamentary deputies, the president of the state and several others that they will not be able to be directly on the boards of directors and supervisory boards of public companies and nothing more. The tendering and selection system of members of the Supervisory Boards through tenders is no guarantee that these supervisory committees will not continue to have people who have put up their policies there, especially because they are also responsible for their work. However, if at this point and put aside or we believe possibly the Government that this model will lead to the most capable and moral citizens of this country being in the supervisory committees, I am asking one other question. Why did this happen and why did the government and all of us want to discuss this? So I remind you from fresh to slightly older. In Djakov, 2,000 tons of wheat and a thousand tons of corn were missing and the supervisory board said we didn't know anything. At the Croatian Privatisation Fund by opening the Maestro Supervisory Board's affair, we said nothing we knew, it was not on the agenda. In Brodosplit, the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Ministers tells me we knew nothing about it because it was not the subject of decision-making by the Supervisory Board. Croatia's electricity industry then chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mr. Begovic, in the affair "Buy electricity by 80 and sell by 20" said we did not know because it was not decided by the Supervisory Board. When the Supervisory Board was removed in the Croatian highways, the president said he knew nothing and the minister explained the shift with a bad climate, so both the Supervisory Board and the management fell because of climate change, not because of corruption and crime. See the 2007 State Audit Report in the Croatian Forests did not collect as much as 47 million kuna claims, they did not even send notices about these claims, let alone run a court payment and the supervisory board also knows nothing about it. Now I'm asking the government's representatives if there's a problem with the supervisory board's powers. Why do supervisory committees exist in companies of particular national interest or public undertakings if there is absolutely nothing in their jurisdiction that has led to these affairs today that are not only more a matter of media debate but also of the State's attorney's actions. So what are the powers of these supervisory committees? To confirm the annual plan and confirm the annual report. What else? How is it that the government did not propose that the powers of the supervisory boards be extended, stronger and clearer so that no one could be said again in this miraculous formula in Croatia, which is worth "We knew nothing, they worked behind us". Do you really think that, without any change in the powers of the supervisory boards, only by changing the way they choose and still being party people, especially those in power, no matter how we choose them, we solve our problem. I don't think so. The second question is whether, in one single case, the Government has so far requested the application of existing legal provisions on the liability of a member of the Supervisory Board to its entire assets for non-compliance as a member of the Supervisory Board in accordance with its powers. That provision hasn't been in the law since yesterday. It's been a long time. The government therefore, whether the state tried to protect its interests in a way that requires the application of a law that says the Supervisory Board is responsible for what it did or didn't do and had to do. There's no discussion about that. And that's why I think it's just a simple impasse for media needs to prove their intentions and a serious desire to change something more important. Either change your powers and extend their powers that they will not be able to pronounce it was not on the Supervisory Board or apply existing laws, legal provisions in their responsibility. As regards concrete solutions, he can now be a state official of supervisory authorities in institutions and extra-financial funds of particular national interest. As there is a list of companies of general government interest in which state officials can be members of the Supervisory Board so far, why does this bill not follow the list of institutions and extra-financial funds where government officials can be members of supervisory or administrative bodies? The list must be followed by this law because two days after the adoption of such amendments to the law, the first disputes will arise whether an institution or a non-profit fund is in the category of special state interest or not. Remember at first how long and how much trouble we had with the list of companies, how many times it had to be complemented and changed. Now to change three laws of god in this favor, but the lists of institutions and extra-financial funds are gone, and that is the key in whether or not this law can be applied to any institution or fund. So, I think you've even missed the government to give that list to the Parliament to confirm it in order to avoid any possible ambiguities in the application itself, and you'll see, on the day of the publication of these changes in "The People's News" the first questions will begin whether this one can be, can't, this one right here, this one there and you'll complicate your point. As far as conflict of interest is concerned, so long as a person found in a conflict of interest will not have to resign or stop mandate by law enforcement, this institute of conflict of interest in Croatia is nakarada, ridiculous, it has been thrown out by public mockery and commission and institute and everything else because it is actually a circus. I will illustrate it to you on the example, and preventing conflict of interest is not when it came to it but when it might come to it. A new director of Croatian Radio Television will be elected. The competition was attended by 2 members of the Assembly Committee on Information and Media, which is the parent board for selecting and proposing members of the Programme Council elected by the Director. Two members of that committee are candidates for director. Nothing to anyone. They participate in the decision-making, work and selection process and the proposal of the Programme Council, which will later be elected or not elected by the Director. It did not even occur to anyone to ask whether even such things could be allowed within Parliament in such a significant institution as Croatia's broadcasting when it comes to the names of leaders and responsible people, and in the context of possible conflicts of interest. He hasn't performed yet, but objectively it can come to that. I expected more seriousness from Minister Mlakar when proposing and explaining such important laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46365	Thank you. A few replicas. First Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46366	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Lesar, you've presented a few... They are supporting a list of problems that occurred in public enterprises, state-owned companies during last year where it turned out that practically members of the Supervisory Board, a group of people of great influence in politics, were not informed about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the solution to this law itself will not be passed by future quotes: "...in the supervisory committees, experts will be appointed on the basis of an earlier public tender that will be able to carry out this work professionally." Even so, people should be appointed who will be able to carry out this work professionally and responsibly. But what is bad, what is going to happen bad through the application of this law is that it will practically slow down the slow decision-making system in Croatia anyway, and the system that too often causes one policy of delaying decision-making and avoiding responsibilities that has very serious consequences, especially in terms of the state of the economy as a whole. So I would say that this bill of law is a spin law which wanted to find practically one model of how to remove from the government a burden of pressure from the public because of the obvious lack of information that members of the supervisory boards had and the dissatisfaction with the functioning of supervisory committees, above all in state companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46367	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46368	Comrade Serbs, you've located the problem well. I've talked less about it, so thank you for the opportunity to clarify once again or to point out that there will be a slowdown in the decision-making process, but it seems to me that this process has been very accelerated so far. We read, often decisions were made at the supervisory board's telephone sessions so that they were very fast, I'd say even too fast. And I'm going back to the essence of the problem. How are the powers in the management of public undertakings and b, undertakings of particular national interest between the administrations and the supervisory boards distinguished? That's one question nobody wants to deal with. And the second question, do the supervisory committees in public enterprises and b, in companies of particular national interest, report to the Government on their work? Has anyone ever asked anyone, some government supervisory board, at least a resolution minister, what and how do you do? Are there reports on the government's websites, websites of these public enterprises so that the public can get acquainted with the work of these supervisory committees? What are they actually doing, what and who and how are they watching? And that's the essence of the problem, and that's why it's possible that they're all defending themselves, we didn't know anything, we didn't hear or see anything. They're all clean, and the administration ends up in Remetec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46369	Next replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46370	Your Honor, you said, it's probably a mistake, that about 2,000 tons of wheat and supplies were missing in Djakovština d.d. From Giakov. It is otherwise a reliquiae reliquiarum that Silvije Strahimir Kranjcevic, former PIK Djakovo, who has also been robbed by conflict of interest in the HDZ model of conversion and privatisation since '92. '95. the years where almost 2,200 people ended up on the street. This is just the rest, so what happened over the years. But I note that this length and height of these stock reserves is far more. It's about 9000 tons and about 15 to 20 million kunas of peasant products. Also, the state owns 32% and carries part of its responsibility not only through the Supervisory Board, but through the work of the government. As far as conflict of interest is concerned, he is also present because workers are not paid taxes and contributions for two and a half years. So the question arises as to what the state institutions were doing and whether the state, or the competent ministers, and then the Prime Minister, or now the Prime Minister, was following them, because if it had been reacted in time to this difficult state and the billions-and-a-half kuna dubiosis, it certainly would not have come. Otherwise, one and a series of wagons were spent on Saturday, this last Saturday when the entire state summit and the assembly summit were marked by 20 years of HDZ in Valpovo, where taxpayers' money was also spent, and that is one of the types of conflicts of interest. By the way, they visited PPK Valpovo, with parliamentary vehicles, government vehicles and all others.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46371	Is that a replica of this exposure? Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46372	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What's interesting is that for 20 days now, I've been unhappy to say the wheat, and we're talking about these huge grain wagons, and yes, the wheat, come on, excuse me. Here's the one from Djakov's wheat without anyone asking how is that possible? Well, it's like a box of matches that got lost somewhere in the house, and it's stuck to what they'd say, so we can't find it. Are you actually preparing some kind of report that will amortize some things? Whether it's being staged for someone or something. That's one thing. And the other thing is, Mr. Lesar, you were talking about the boards of directors. To all of us, and to you quite certainly because you are a smart man it is clear that membership in the supervisory boards has become a kind of reward for the like, because there was no place or failed to enter the executive power. And it's so from local self-government, so-called. and regional self-government all the way up. And I'm afraid it's clear to you and me and all of us again that, as part of the moral degradation of the entire society, that it's been working both in the supervisory committees and in the administrations on principle, you to yourself, you to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46373	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46374	Thank you very much. Col. Grubisic, when we return to the subject of wheat and Đakovština, is a classic example of how the state had three instruments to protect its interests and none was used. The company is 32% owned by the Republic of Croatia. There are two representatives of the state in the company's supervisory board. Did they know that they were on the supervisory board of a company that guards 2,000 tons of state wheat? Were they supposed to know that? I think so. Did they know the company was in trouble? Maybe they didn't know, but they should have known. Did someone instruct them that if they see the company going into difficulties signaling the state to make good state property, the wheat excluded from that warehouse so it wouldn't be spent or loaded into cars or trucks, I don't know where. Also, the department of goods reserves when the first indications were visible, and the media reported that something strange was happening there did not even apply its obligation, not only the right to protect state property and to withdraw the goods from the warehouse. No one knew anything until the media and the peasants found the silos empty. Now there will be no more state officials in the Đakovština, but members will be elected through a public tender. Probably two young ladies again. And what's going to change? Only that there's no more wheat there, so there's nothing to steal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46375	We have a correction to an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46376	Comrade Lesar, your claim is completely incorrect that the outside members of the Media Committee would be or may be in conflict of interest at the time when they make a public call to the director of HRT and for several reasons. First of all, outside members of the Media Committee do not participate in the vote, therefore they do not decide anything. Secondly, the Media Committee does not elect the director of HRT to be elected by the HRT Council. Third, the Media Committee does not choose members of the HRT Council either. That's what this Croatian Parliament does. Fourthly, this Croatian Parliament does not mind, but under the Law on HRT, in a way that one member of the council is elected on a parliamentary minority proposal, the other on a parliamentary majority proposal. It is precisely the procedure that the parliamentary majority in this committee now seeks to play and challenge and thereby bring this Parliament into crisis. Therefore, outside members of the Committee of Conflict of Interest when making a public call do not have or may have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46377	Thank you. And individual debate, follow-up. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46378	Thank you, Vice President. So there are companies that have not privatised. They remained state-owned, mostly or majority-owned. Who is obliged to make sure that these state-owned companies operate legally, quality, well, to make a profit, that there are no thefts, no crime in them. Who? The one who won the election, the one who forms the government. Well, if those companies are doing a good job, who's responsible for it? Government! Who else. The government is responsible for setting up high-quality management members and high-quality board members to control the administration. If, however, these companies are not doing well, if there is no profit in them, who is responsible for it? So again the government, who else. Because she's appointed bad board members and bad board members. These companies, mostly state-owned, are considered to be an electoral prey by these companies in Croatia. And she splits up after the election between the coalition partners. So it is obvious that Croatia's insurance belonged to HSLS, JANAF and Croatian Forests to HSS, "Podravka" is divided between HSS and HDZ, and Croatian roads, e.g. Croatian railways, Brodosplit, have joined HDZ. Now that they're talking within a party of HSLS these days, that their vice president is being replaced, maybe deleted from membership, it also automatically means leaving the state-owned company. So he didn't even come there because of his expertise, but because it's a company, which is understood as an electoral prey and it belongs to a coalition partner. How are you employed in these state-owned enterprises? That's what we saw. It's hired to write a letter to Barbara Luka, and that letter says you're a member of the HDZ for so many years, that you admire Barba Luka and that he's your role model, and that you don't have a job. And then Barba Luka hires you in a state-owned company belonging to HDZ, so for example. in Croatian roads employed hundreds of people, and Croatian highways built only 50 kilometers of roads. So they, these state-owned companies today serve HDZ and coalition partners to enlist their members. Sometimes family members, sometimes friends, sometimes nephews, sometimes cousins, and sometimes just party colleagues. That's how you become a member of the board, including the chairman of the board. That's how you get into the boards of directors. Now, when crime is discovered in one of the companies, and crime forms are different, whether money is sent to some offshore company on Virgin Islands like in "Brodosplit," whether it's taken by one company as a warehouse, and then it paints tunnels 157 times more expensive than it would normally be on the market, or buying those road markings the same 374 times more expensive than they are on the market, and then the money from those companies is transferred in that way to private accounts. Or say all of you directors of these state-owned companies have to use the marketing services of a company run by our friend and we care very much for her to earn, and she and her company and you now ignore even public tenders, but you only do with her and only do business with her. That's how these companies work. What is now proposed? It is proposed that administrations and supervisory committees no longer become government officials. Does this mean, however, the release of the government from responsibility for the situation in these companies? Certainly not. Watch out for the dear God whether you send someone there selected by public tender, or you send a minister, or you send someone's aunt, or you send someone who wrote a letter to Barba Luka. The government is responsible for how he works. We've never seen those responsibilities before, because as long as there's been a crime in Brodosplit, but the minister who's chairman of the board of directors says I have nothing to do with it, what I have to do with it, I didn't know how to control it, I couldn't control it. There's been a whole series of scandals, corruption, crime in highways, and the minister of traffic says what I have to do with it, my God, so it's like it's my fault people steal. It means the right to name board members and supervisory boards belong to the Government, but the government itself is not aware of how and by which rule it is freed from responsibility. This is another attempt to move the government away from responsibility, because it will now. Look, otherwise it's good, it would be good if the ministers weren't on 11 monitoring committees. First because they don't have time, second because they're probably not professional, because they're politicians, sometimes politicians of general practice. But the election in a public competition and the government's decision on who will be elected must not release the government from responsibility. If this is an attempt to get away from that responsibility, it's a bad attempt. If political responsibility remains, or if we introduce political responsibility once in this country, because it is so far gone, so far it is not, Minister Vukelic is not responsible for "Brodosplit", nor is anyone asking him anything about "Brodosplit" from the law of prosecution in this country. For now I see Calmeta is not responsible for the situation in the Croatian highways, nor is anyone asking him anything, because he has brought 10 mandates and must not be asked. If we introduce responsibility once in this country, political responsibility for the situation in these companies then it doesn't matter how members of the administration are elected. With these two laws that can be supported, go third, and that third one cannot be accepted. It's a government handover. What does he say? He petrifies the state chosen by one government and leaves its legacy to the other. Well, he can't choose one, and the other can't be responsible. So the old government can't choose board members and boards, the new government comes, they don't have to give mandates at their disposal now and the new government answers. Well, look, it's against the basic democratic principle. One decides, and the other one's responsible. Well, that doesn't go to God's people. Therefore, this third law is one cowardly egg, it is planted with these two in order for HDZ to petrify the situation, in order to keep its people in those administrations and supervisory committees and leave them even when they lose power. Therefore, against this law, of course everything must be said, it is necessary to tell the full truth, and for this law must not be voted on, and not only the opposition, so neither must you, who are the parliamentary majority. You can't vote for that because that means destroying all democratic and logical principles. A commitment for one to decide and the other to answer. So would you like to answer for something you do not decide? Well, if someone were to impose it on you, you'd say he was crazy, so he wouldn't make you do it. Therefore, for this third law, he should certainly be withdrawn from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46379	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is Honorable Representative Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46380	Thank you. You mentioned the affair in Split's smuggling, and indeed one of the biggest problems of Croatian society is the lack of political responsibility or escape from political responsibility, and Split's square is the best example. So, the fact is that we had a supervisory board headed by Minister Vukelic, that there was an affair, that we also discussed in the Assembly, that the majority of parliaments did not accept political responsibility even though it was clear what happened, although on the board of directors and ministers and all the members were, of the honorary members of that supervisory board, warned about what was going on. Nothing happened except that they were constantly, and so were my little ones, offended when they asked these questions in the Parliament. You know, in Mexico, I've had a chance to live some time, there's one practice. Before the election the current government always speaks, they call it... morals, or moral restoration, are talking about moral restoration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Forgetting what happened until then, and if we start suffering from collective amnesia now or find some sponge or Pedro we're gonna throw it all at, we're not gonna change anything. It is known what my relationship was with former Prime Minister Sanader and his to me, not at all friendly, not intolerant about him, and indeed if you think that by loading him on the back of all sins you will save those who participated in this matter you are wrongly wronged, this is not a stupid people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46381	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46382	Well, it's a good moral restoration, my colleague, which you mention. It would be a need for Croatia, but rather or more important than Croatia, it would have to be political responsibility, as well as criminal responsibility. So we here in Croatia have a case to see that the State's Attorney's Office is only going after those, only those who were previously disposed of by the ruling party in an intra-party account. Until they become undesirable for their party, as is now Sanader or individual ministers, they are not touched. They are not subject to political or criminal responsibility. A moral restoration would be welcome, of course, but that question cannot be solved alone. This issue must address political responsibility. It is a question of every political party whether it has a sense of political responsibility at all, and this must be resolved by a state lawyer if it has a sense of law and of its obligation to prosecute crime, no matter where it appears or in whatever form or place, and even if someone brings a ruling party 10 mandates.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46383	I'd still be begging a little too far off topic, so let's get close to the subject of the law and talk about the law. We have another replica, it's the esteemed representative of Luke Denon, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46384	Thank you. You, my colleague, have, in your presentation, set up this agenda point, I would say, a dilemma. The question is, in any case, waist and responsibility. You said, "The government is and should be responsible." The government is politics. According to this law, we have a feeling, at least that's what it seems to me, that in any case the government washes its hands of that responsibility because now that we choose in a public competition experts who, let's say, will not be chosen by political likeness but by really experts, it can happen to him to get mixed up in these public enterprises. What will the government say, or politicians in the government? "So it's not our fault, what would you like now? Here you have the experts and see how it goes." Therefore, it is not a matter of political determination that someone on behalf of the owner oversees the work of management in public enterprises. The question is indeed only about the political responsibility that whoever is on the Supervisory Board, whether he is an expert or a politician, is subject to both moral and other political, if not otherwise, and also to the material if he has to guarantee some kind of property as a whole, so that we can see if he will then be serious on that board of directors or supervisory board, or he will continue to be politically irresponsible and irresponsible. And you said property. The property is irrelevant, whether it is state or private if you choose as a serious owner in the supervisory committees of your ownership people who will be of your trust and for whom you will be sure to do what you as the owner of them in that company and ask. So I think this is just washing our hands and it's going to keep happening to us anyway, but we're not gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46385	Thank you, reply to the replica, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46386	You tell your colleague Denon that after this bill is passed, we choose members. We don't choose, they're elected by the government, and that's why the government has to be held accountable. That is why it should not happen, after these laws enter into force, that the government says. "I, what do we have now to do with being stolen in public enterprises? So these people were chosen in a public competition, is that we chose them as a government, but we really have nothing with them." It shouldn't be the consequences of these laws, because if it's the consequences of these laws then we have a worse thing than what, it's going to be worse than it is now. The government doesn't now, it does, and now it avoids any political responsibility, but this way, these laws will still get an alibi for how to avoid it. Therefore, it should not, absolutely, be the result of the amendment of such laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46387	Thank you. We have further replicas, it's the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of the Stazic you were talking about running away from responsibility. I'd spread it a little bit and more by saying that this is actually a bit of a bit of an indirect way of admitting that we've never put an expert on it before. So, so far, we've only had politicians, and now, given all these major corruption affairs that are opening up, we're going to take them aside and save them from any persecution, that's what's worrying. Last week we discussed public procurement here, now we're talking about a public competition to choose people. There's a lot going on in public with us, and there's an impression that it's more honest. But practice taught us that despite our public procurement, we had all these affairs that we listed, that despite public tenders, they hired similar and not professional people. I was personally a member of the boards of directors and supervisory boards, and I believe that I was placed there exclusively by my expertise, in institutions that were my profession, and I am proud of this by my volunteer contributions to these boards and boards of directors. This should be the criterion that the government should use, but of course what you mentioned will not wash the government's responsibility because it will again be them who will decide who will be on these supervisory boards and the boards of directors. It's going to be very interesting anyway how things are going to develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46389	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate, it's up to the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The story of state-owned enterprises, about state-owned companies, is a big story about how people's property was being built, it's always a story of a long and unfortunately fertile history of the spilling of kuna from state-owned enterprises, of the move and state-owned property to the Virgin Islands to the Cayman Islands, and maybe somewhere much closer. With these proposals of the Law, small changes that the Government so generously gives up its own ministers to sit on supervisory committees and proposes a contest to be elected, to which it will select professional people. And he says we have nothing to do with it. Forgetting that the most common contract under the Law on Mandatory Relations is worth the old Latin proverb... responding because he had a bad choice. But he has no idea the responsibility of the government never exists, responsible for everything, but responsible for nothing, to transfer responsibility to another but still have influence so whoever gets caught, we don't know anything about it. As businesses owned by a state-owned or predominantly state-owned company are now talking about it, it is now under judicial review, however, people knew about it, who can be employed in companies, who can deal with companies owned by the state, or in the predominantly owned state. They were formed or acted as small family companies, while the global stock market collapsed, with the booming stock exchange of relatives, acquaintances, godmothers, tabs, known and those mostly with the card. The question about this is especially in these difficult times, who gets jobs and how, how companies do business, it was covered by business secrets. Every question and a little bit more detail, about this way of doing business, the answer is that's a business secret. It would be a business secret if he had his own private company, so some private person or someone asked him if he said so, but where he has state property can't be business secrets. But apparently, someone, many who are there and how they came, took the country as property by recommendation, even showing it as one patriotic act. Let us remember the famous already famous sentences at the HDZ Parliament of the fugitive former Prime Minister Sanader "We will put state property into office". Now we see what a function it was, now that people have started talking and when they've recently come up with numerous findings about the involvement of state officials in corrupt operations. Often there was, many knew, some wrote, but many were not allowed to write about that many state-owned companies or one of their segments were essentially one river base, that it was done by mob principle, first of all very politely, offers, carrots, because he knows who doesn't accept what he's up to. What to do is essentially to hold it together, that it wouldn't actually happen anymore, that it wouldn't be like that. Why has the government refused to change the Penal Code for seven years, to introduce an economic incrimination in which members of the boards of directors and supervisors would be called first in a row. Where the "I didn't know" answer would be a plea of guilt, not a crown proof of innocence. But that's the way it is with us today. And that's why he's changed Penal Code 5, 6 times, it's forbidden cloning, or more or less of some kind or kind of socially dangerous behavior and action, but this can't be right. But it's the core of anti-corruption policies and the fight against corruption and all these behaviors. However, we have not yet experienced it. The truth of the matter is that in the preparation of such changes, the government has recently been pressuring and pressure not only the professional and general public to do something about it, it is talking about how it is going to happen. However, not to continue to house the property, that law should be done tomorrow by such an amendment to the modern economic incrimination that would be called upon to be held accountable by members of the boards of directors and supervisors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46391	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic said there is never a responsibility with the government. That's incorrect. There is absolutely absolute responsibility, it is visible and repaying the debt to the pensioners and the functioning of the entire state. But I want to remind you of another thing. You don't seem to remember in 2003 when it wasn't the time, when in one night, the Bartholomew we called health care professionals, when over 100 health care directors were replaced. So it's also, it's kind of applied differently... here we go, the other one. So I think you really need to be correct and just and say the way things are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46393	I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, if you don't throw it out of the bench. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46394	Thank you. A colleague of Anticevic mentioned an amendment to the possible Penal Code that would define the responsibility of members of the Supervisory Board in a manner adequate to the name of the Supervisory Board itself. The whole problem with us has largely arisen from not knowing what the Supervisory Board is at all. We were here listening to a colleague of Mr. Minister Vukelic, who said that, in an interview, he said in one week, that there seemed to be some kind of criminal activity there, but behind my back. One of our distinguished representatives said, so where would our minister end up reading all the material from the board's meetings? But the most interesting thing is that this supervisory board, from the very point of view, is that it seems that it doesn't need to be monitored, that the administrations are doing what they're doing. And then when they're warned of possible guilt, they don't respond when they're making catastrophic moves. And this brings us to the basic question, that in Croatia all citizens are not equal, and especially not politicians in relation to other citizens, because they are not responsible for the devastating decisions they make, and the people have entrusted them with such functions as those from which you can make a much harder decision, but as the Split Court is the other day, we are very urgent. It doesn't look like it's got anything to do with this, and it does. One single mother lifts alimony in the amount of so far, half it and still has to work. So I'm telling you, let me put it this way, we're ready to chase people into impossible things, and we're not ready to see the most huge irregularities that this society puts us in a situation where we are, and it's the supervisory boards that aren't defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46395	Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46396	Well, membership in boards and boards is understood as fiction. In fact, he wants to be there and the ministers wanted to be there for the domination. It's perfectly clear, for influence. But when you have to answer for work, you have fiction, we're still just there, we're in there in... reminding you of residence and residence, we're just staying there, we're not staying so that we know what this is about. So I'm going back to that main message and thought. In 2003, we had such a law. The HDZ then refused to vote precisely because of this incrimination on sanctioning economic crime, on extended statutes, on stalemated deadlines for economic crime. But it says again, this crime was just as designed and incriminated to cover management structures first and foremost. They've been invited there under the Company Act to monitor, to know. If they are unable to know and then they must be excluded, they themselves should be excluded from that duty. And it's not possible of course they control everything, so then what they know falls under this famous defense of theirs I didn't know. I think that such justification should be put to rest, and this is also possible to see different criteria, applied to these or those members of the Supervisory Board. You need to find your legislation in the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46397	Thank you. And the second replica is the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46398	Thank you. My colleagues, Antičević, you were actually based on responsibility, i.e. irresponsibility. And by amending these three laws, the government is actually trying to say that in the future it will manage more responsibly the part for which it is responsible, therefore for state-owned property. However, there is no big difference between private and state ownership in Croatia. There is no responsibility to both well and in one or the other. It shall not depart from that basic constitutional provision that the property is bound by it. So the owner, as the responsible owner, should also appoint responsible administrations and responsible supervisory committees. The solution that members of the supervisory boards in state or enterprise where the state has a majority stake will come through the tender will actually not solve this problem. However, if a consistent application of the Commercial Society Act is made, the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board shall be responsible for the operations of the companies which are headed or controlled, that and if our courts implement that provision, for example, When a company is in difficulty or when bankruptcy is launched and a person has to pay out of his own pocket for a part of responsibility, that is, irresponsibility, people would be estimating whether they would be members of a supervisory board where it is only so formal, and not really supervised.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46399	Thank you. And a reply to the replica by the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46400	Comrade Zgrebec, you must know that this law, this provision of the Law on Commercial Companies, is very much applicable to small companies. There people respond if they remain in debt either to the state or to the workers, responding to their own property. And no one spared them that. But it looks like the bigger the position, the greater the responsibility, the greater the responsibility, the smaller the responsibility. Well, then it happens here that nobody's been answering alive, even in a material way like this. But then it's already a story about how law and justice in Croatia works in the first place? It is very slow when it is necessary to reach those who are more responsible and who are given more, but it is very effective when looking back, i.e. small ones should be included. That's what my colleague Jurjevic was talking about. So the judiciary in our country reacts and operates at two speeds. It's in the first place when it comes to covering that grandmother you were talking about, who needs to know everything that not knowing a single regulation is not esculating but members of the board of directors and supervisors is enough to say I didn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46401	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. I'd like to read a note before that. The meeting of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament will be held today on 3 February 2010 at 13:30 in the hall "Josipa Jelačić". It is up to the honourable representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46402	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to begin my debate with a little reminder that a month ago we brought a list of companies of special state interest to this House, that we voted in the Croatian Parliament. In the current legal regulations, a large number of state officials are still members of the supervisory boards of those companies that we have brought here in the Parliament. What I would point out here as negative today has been heard a lot here in the debate in the parliamentary benches, it is called that there are no members' responsibilities, it is called that people do not know how to do their work, that they do not do the work of members of the supervisory boards with due attention, etc. We are questioning here because of a few individual cases because no one says that justice will not be brought to an end in the proceedings under investigation but is being questioned by the honor and duty of those state officials who are still doing their job fairly and honorably. Well, it's not true, colleagues and colleagues, that nobody who sits on boards knew what he was doing, that nobody knew what was going on and that no one was trained in the business situation, that no one was helping these companies and workers. I think we are creating a negative picture of Croatian politicians, that we are in this honorable and high Croatian assembly putting an end to our work that we should do with honor and integrity. This is our joint task here in the Croatian Parliament. I would go back to the very idea and the very core of the law that is before us, which is that the Government of Croatia's intention to go towards further depoliticalisation in public enterprises and public administration, to have professional, competent, quality people on the basis of a public tender that will subsequently hope and publish the conditions of these competitions, which will have the opportunity to apply, to run for members of supervisory committees and thus contribute to the quality of both public companies and the general policy of the Government of Croatia. What is also important I would point out here that a similar model may need to be applied to local administration and self-government units because many companies are owned by these units where members of boards and supervisory boards are appointed in some ways that, according to this bill, should also be applied to those units. Education in economic colleges is also important. All over Croatia, courses are organised for members of supervisory committees where people can acquire expertise and thus be one step ahead when they are given the opportunity to apply to one of these competitions that will soon be announced. This is our common goal, this should be the common interest of all of us and here representatives in the Croatian Parliament, I hope the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If it hadn't been for the way it has been so far, we have also brought forward the proposed solutions regardless of which governments were involved, so colleagues and yours or this one of ours is our goal from today to future that what can be fixed is being corrected in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all those who gave us their vote to become representatives in this honorable Croatian Assembly. I would support the proposed amendments to the law. I consider them particularly important, and I believe that they contribute to the overall economic policy, interests of both the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46403	Thank you. Now we have a nice series of replicas. The first is Honorable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46404	Thank you very much. Col. Salapic, I agree with you when you said that it is easy to approach the assessment of the work of state officials, especially the conclusion that state officials are synonyms for crime. It is exaggerated to conclude that state officials are synonyms for corruption, that they are bound only to dishonest acts but are equally exaggerated in the conclusion that only those outside the policy are good, fair in advance, professional in advance, and almost perfect in advance. No, they're not. Because if that were the case then there wouldn't be a Dion, there wouldn't be a NA-MA, there wouldn't be a Brodokomerac, there wouldn't be a Pevec, there wouldn't be a mirage, there wouldn't be an Adriatic net where no government official was around. There, so much about the ability of these independent experts who would like to connect private interests with state-owned companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46405	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46406	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you, colleague Maric. I've been a representative of the Croatian Parliament for six months. Many debates on the laws we have passed over the past six months have just helped to incriminate the public and those who do their job with honor and integrity. Today, unfortunately, it is no longer honorable to be a Croatian politician and sometimes, through history in this Croatian Parliament, a debate has begun with the word "honor Croatian Assembly". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46407	Replica is a respected representative and vice president of the home of Zeljka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46408	Indeed, your colleague Salapic is right when you are concerned about causing damage to the reputation of people who are involved in politics. I, like you, think politics must be an honorable job and the only way to get rid of those politicians and at the same time those who have been sitting on boards and an gro being accused of being dishonest people is to say who is dishonest and who is honorable. However, the behaviour of you at the majority club, even today when the affairs are opening, does not contribute to what you and I are up for. And I want him to sit with every honorable politician in your ranks or in our ranks. But the only way is to show who's dishonest, who's loyal to thief and thief, not to be equally guilty. Are you ready to point that out? No, you're still defending those people sitting on the boards and saying they didn't know anything even though they knew there. You're still saying it's a logical answer and an excuse. And by what criteria will you continue to choose? You can call a hundred public tenders when in your club you are dominated by voting policy, force, stronger, it is precisely such a procedure that the appointment of an honest person of experts of the non-partisan, independent, unsuspected in the Council of the HRT which you oppose is without any basis and for no reason whatsoever. Pure force. We've got more hands. Well, that way we'll all still be dirty, but not because we're dirty, but because you're simply equating everything with your behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46409	Excuse me, I have to intervene here. You have no right to show one party and say it equals everything, both fair and unfair. You have no right to do that. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46410	In my debate, Honorable colleague Antunovic, I spoke exactly the opposite. No one escapes responsibility. It is precisely the goal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, our corruption policy and zero tolerance for corruption that has been launched. Investigations are under way, the duties of judicial authorities and competent state institutions to do their job are under way. On your part there is no confidence in one quality legal solution, no confidence in the proper decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and no confidence in everything we have done in the past six months in the Croatian state. I hope that the Croatian public will be able to assess and assess the positive moves of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as one individual case can always address everything. I said there are more than 200 companies of particular national interest in the Republic of Croatia. Well, you can't in five, six cases, in cases that are still under investigation, in cases that are still in court, we can't even bring the court as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. No one is guilty until proven guilty in the Croatian Parliament. I am not defending anyone here, I defend the honor and reputation of Croatian laws, the Croatian Parliament, all state officials because it should be an honor to sit in the Croatian Parliament, and the competent institutions, the judicial authorities will, according to the laws that we have voted here, bring words and solutions against those who have violated the laws. We won't protect that either, and neither should you. We are here together to protect the Constitution of Croatia, the Croatian laws, to serve the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's what I was going to say in my debate. Thank you very much. [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46411	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague who's clearly told us about his visions and about the law that's ahead of us, and certainly the competition that's going to be called under this law for members of the Supervisory Board will bring novelty in the conduct and selection of members of the Supervisory Boards and their presidents, probably also responsibility. Since the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, as well as in Split, has conducted additional educations for all interested and certified certain people who are highly educated, with higher and higher education and have obtained certificates for participation in supervisory committees, this initiative that comes through these legal frameworks will certainly be much better regulated by this matter of supervision of all companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, agencies, directors, institutions, funds and institutions. We need to remember that through one legal framework we have solved and managed, for example, in our hospitals and medical institutions where it cannot be without a certain professional arrangement. the highest level of expertise, higher education for any president or member of the board of directors, except from the ranks of the coming staff. We've regulated that a long time ago. I would therefore like to stress that unlike the time when you were able to do so, and this list clearly states how well it is and has been reviewed in the bodies of the state administration, companies, agencies, directorates, offices, so your members were so capable and possibly that 20 supervisory boards could have been suddenly, that they could control all of this and I'm really sorry today that these companies are not controlled. But unfortunately for you, those who evaluate the government's work is a people and he's given an assessment of these insubordinations you've been doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46413	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative... nothing. We have a replica, the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46414	Thank you very much. My colleague Salapić, with most of your debates, can agree, but unfortunately you are convincing, that is, the argument you speak falls on simple examples. Let's say you have a case to support the minister who was involved in the Brodosplit affair, who was the chairman of the company's supervisory board and gave no answers except that he didn't know what was going on there. You have a situation where you have a director of a large public company, HEP, who previously served as chairman of the HEP Supervisory Board, also said he didn't know about the things that happened in the company. If we really want to show that we want to be transparent, we want to remove the problem from the MPs, i.e. with public officials related to public enterprises, then we must not do any part of it and we must not make exceptions. The fact is that there has been a huge lack of money in Brodosplit, and that is the person who is still sitting in the Croatian government today. And it's not good that the Prime Minister is also answering the questions of the MPs she's trying to make we're all the same. She cites an example of a case by the mayor of Koprivnica who is a man who conducted a public tender and sold the property of the city, equates it with cases where billions of kuna have disappeared in public enterprises. That's what she leveled and she's doing politics we're all the same because at this point the HDZ is responding. And this situation in Koprivnica, according to some information that I have most of the mayors in Croatia, would earn a similar application if the attorney's office were to control everything in the same way. Because the tax administration didn't react when the property was sold, it didn't react to the attorney's office, but now three years after, when it comes to supporting the policy, we're all the same, and then the application comes up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46415	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46416	That's what your Prime Minister does, and that's why it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46417	Thank you! It is up to the distinguished representative Josip Salapic, the reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46418	Comrade Maras, it's not politics we're all the same but it's politics we're all the same before the Croatian law. That should put an emphasis on it. I said in the debate that we, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, have passed positive legal regulations to this country, we should be the first to respect it. No one escapes, and they won't, and they don't need to run away from responsibility in this country. Well, your members were sitting on 15, 20 surveillance boards, and then they shouldn't have, they couldn't have known what they needed to know. In this way, we could talk today, inform the Croatian public about the situations that were 10 and 15 years ago. The question is whether our viewers in front of the Croatian TV screens will understand what you wanted to say, what I was going to say. I only repeat, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken measures, adopted anti-corruption measures, adopted programmes that will be implemented in this country, and we as representatives of the Croatian Parliament on an honorablely elected duty should be treated here. We should not be afraid of the public, because what will happen if Croatian citizens lose confidence in the Croatian Parliament and politicians sitting in the government, either in the Parliament, or in public enterprises. Then we caused chaos, we challenged people into the streets, and that's not our goal. Our goal is to enforce the laws and serve in the interest of the people of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46419	Replica, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46420	Dear fellow MP, this is not about individual cases because it should only start now with a series of affairs that have shaken Croatia and you will see that these are not individual cases but are rules of conduct. The latest example is not only about public enterprises, but also about Croatia's forests and should be examined who has allowed individuals to borrow up to a few dozen million kunas in Croatian forests, without interest, without anything, etc. The latest example is in any case the company Djakovština from Đakovina where, among other things, it is closed and the technical inspection stations with a series of nearly a billion and a half kuna of dubiosis, where exactly the Environmental Protection Fund and the Ministry of the Interior did not react immediately at the beginning. And I agree with you that we must all be equal in front of the Croatian law. I said I don't need immunity, I'll defend myself. But obviously not everyone in this House is the same. I'll prove my innocence. On the other hand, if it's the same thing and if it can be called it's done by a parliamentary representative from HDZ and returned that money only after the local elections when the same HDZ attacked me for those travel expenses. So we're not all equal. Because if we're equal, he needs a criminal application, too. And there's no morals and amorals. So, if the same deed is done then, I agree with you that you should return faith in politics and politicians. But this way anyway, no. That it's not the only agent I'm going to prove.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46421	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46422	My colleague Vinkovic, no one can say that it's your fault until proven otherwise. Nobody said that. You can say your opinion as you think it, none of us MPs have said it here. I'm going back to that original intensities of this law. The intention is to give professional, competent people who will contribute to the quality of the work of public enterprises the opportunity to report to public tenders and to select in their decisions people who will improve the quality of work both the management and the supervisory boards. As counterpart Djakic said, there is an opportunity for all to be educated for members of the supervisory boards through education at the universities, to compete to be members of the boards and boards of directors, and this is a new situation in the Republic of Croatia. And it should be returned to the initial intention of amending these laws, and it is precisely that all observed irregularities and all that has so far proved not to be good for these amendments to the law are corrected. And now every single case to draw out and to create a whole policy, I think it's not good, and I think that this legal solution will make a huge contribution to greater stability and greater organisation and better quality of work in the supervisory committees. No one will escape the responsibility and anyone who applies for the competition and gets a chance from the Government of the Republic of Croatia by their work to prove their expertise and thus be responsible for those moves that will be made in these public enterprises and public administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46423	Replicated representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46424	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Salapic, you said he called in a few cases that the state officials weren't doing well. Well, I think it's a good idea to go with those nicknames, because if it wasn't, it wouldn't have been possible for this bill to change the law either. Because otherwise when we talk about supervisory committees, it's not just us here, but people are generally saying not only did she mention here Ingrid's "indulgence" of folk property, but it's the story that supervisory committees are kind enough to look at exactly the thieving that's going on. At times, participants themselves are members of these monitoring committees or are viewers. But I think we should primarily be representatives of the preservation of that property. Unfortunately, it doesn't happen often. It is precisely that they are even participants or viewers as the state-owned company trades with a private company collapses, and this private company is rising and becoming even the majority owner of such grown companies that lived on the account of the state-owned company. Why is that happening? Well, it happens because those in these activities that happen between one company and another often go a long way towards this company, the private company becoming the one that's more quality. What makes her better? Well, because he probably has some contact. The case, for example, is the agricultural company Đakovština. What are the biggest losers of goods? Well, losers are peasants, losers are stockpiles, losers are some smaller companies. The biggest ones were able to get their money out, and now they're reporting as the lifeguards of that company.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46425	Thank you. And we have a replica of the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46426	Dear colleague, I can agree with one part of your discussion, especially the initial one. However, your entire logic further arguments are completely contradictory. I agree that not all politicians are the same and that in fact most people are the hostage of a few irresponsible people primarily from the government, ministers and state secretaries. However, if you look at the reasoning of the law and finally what you said was the urgency of this law to put professional, quality people in supervisory committees and the proposal says that the law is passed as a result of the repression of corruption. If we turn upside down, then we'll say that those who have been on boards so far have been under corruption or have been prone to corruption, that they have been unprofessional and unquality. And that's the contradiction of the whole story, because the vast majority isn't, and those who are for that need both political and real. Because this is exactly the kind of law that we contribute to pictures of all politicians being incomprehensible, incompetent and corrupt. That's the problem with this law. The second question is, how will governmental people control public interest through a public tender? So, the whole idea of an officer on the supervisory boards is to control the public interest, we government, government them. Or, so it's a command line somewhere to say so. If so far we have not been able to control this with people who have also had formal responsibility to us as to the Croatian Assembly how we will do it with people we don't really know who they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46427	Replica reply, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46428	My colleagues are just the opposite. I'm glad we agreed in at least one part. I was just saying the opposite, and I think we got along very well. The intention of this law is to introduce expertise, competence, the possibility of people who believe and who the government considers to have the capacity to be members of the Supervisory Board. By passing this law, no one is burdened by anything. The adoption of this law gives professional people the opportunity to improve the situation in companies where it may not have been right so far. I said that there are more than 200 companies of special state interest and that in your discussions today you have contributed to the fact that citizens have complete mistrust in those state officials who have done their job honestly, honestly and responsibly in supervisory committees and administrative councils according to the applicable legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia. That's what I was talking about. On individual cases, the responsibility of individual members of the administration in the proceedings before the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia will be brought to justice in court. We speak our opinions here, our views, we make laws here, we have an honorable duty here. We understand each other very well, it's just that who presents what's positive and what's negative. I think it is fair that what is good to boast and that what is not right for everyone in the framework of their expertise and opportunities to contribute to better and better legal solutions. If we consider that there is anything else to be added and changed, for God's sake we are representatives in the Croatian Parliament and we will be able to contribute even better and even better laws to amendments and amendments to the law. It is our interest to work together as representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for our citizens who have given us confidence to be representatives of this House of High and Honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46429	Thank you. It is up to the individual debate, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46430	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Well, this particular proposal that the government has made to go into changes to the law, I think it comes as a flesh wound, to a wound that's actually been open for 18 years. And it is precisely these amendments to the law that aim to prevent the conflict of the interests of government officials, of which it is a fact that often puts private interest in the first plan by neglecting the public interest in this way, regardless of which party or which political option it belonged to. The Supervisory Boards, and before I say it would have been better if the Government had been in 2000, 2003, when there were intensities from certain members of the government sitting in these benches today, according to the prime minister, it was then to pass a law which the state officials would not participate in, so the Prime Minister would not accept. That it was then accepted safely to avoid many affairs, many corruption, many crimes that took place in those 10 years. The supervisory boards in which government officials acted were generally large bones in the throats of many companies, state-owned companies. That is why it is good that the government has realized that it is urgent that this bone must be removed from the bottleneck in order not to choke these existing societies, companies owned by the state, and in this way I would say a good part of the society and save them. That's how I believe that it finally comes to an end to the supervisory committees that don't normally control anything. Finally, the perfection of those individuals who are state owners of these companies will be stopped as a drunken billionaire, who is only there to pay, invest, whose supervisors did not care about the work and business of society, but only their own interests. A number of affairs are the best witnesses in this regard. The supervisory boards must finally have experts able to monitor the work of society, but also ready to take personal responsibility for their work on supervisory committees. Only such an approach can actively participate in the building of the competitive capacity of society, businesses and truly protect the interest of the owner who is in this case a state. The issue of conflict of interest in government officials does not always have to be primarily linked to their activities through supervisory boards of companies or companies owned by a majority state. The conflict of interest can often be seen through abuse of the position, the functions of a single state official who, by the authority of the office, will, as a rule, have a written impact on individual decisions or actions of responsible persons at the head of such state-owned enterprises and even on certain members of the supervisory boards. Such practice has often been at that time hated privatisation, some officials are happy to apply it today. So some moral verticals, as the media used to call it, are merely a public perception, and by abuse of functions through oral surrender, they have deeply stepped in the mud of conflict of interest, which should be taken into account by the State's Attorney's office, as well as USOK. The conflict of interest is certain to have to be prevented at all levels in the Croatian state, as the conflict of interest is the Swedish corruption table. Therefore, the same rules should also apply to all local and regional officials, as they are mini-refuses of state levels in the supervisory committees of local companies. The system of values in these supervisory committees applies to political similarities, and not according to its expertise and abilities, so that these supervisory committees monitor nothing, but simply collect and do so to the harm of their fellow citizens, means those who are very expensively paid through high utility prices. So once again this government proposal, no matter what, would have been better if it had come a long time ago, but it's quite important and as I said, a melem on the wound, and it should be supported anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46431	Thank you. First of all, we have a correction, which is the esteemed representative Željko Jovanovic, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to your... Mr. Kunst again accused the government of the Ivica Racan, because some decision was not made at that time later on, corruption flourished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that the officials were actually that fish bone in the bottleneck. They were not officials, but were corrupt HDZ officials, a problem that led to corruption and the disappearance of 120 billion kuna over the past 6 years by HDZ authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46433	Your Honor, don't speak that way like it has black and white technique. The criminal is a criminal. I've met many in my life, and I never knew which party it belonged to. He's a criminal. And now we have a few replicas. First is Honorable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46434	Thank you very much. My colleague Kunst, you've told the supervisory boards that they need professional people to come. Of course they do, but I would point out that there are enough professional people in Croatia. In Croatia there are enough and good and honest people only they need to be achieved by positive selection using the highest standards and the highest criteria. Personally, I think they should be: experienced, professional, competent, honest, moral, and those who have a particularly outstanding sense of protection of national interests because they should be managing state-owned companies right now. But a guarantee for the protection of state interests, a guarantee for the efficiency of the management of these companies cannot be some kind of certificate of some college that organizes along with summer schools issue certificates for several thousand kunas and that you have received the assurance that you are capable of professionally managing state-owned companies. These certificates are not a guarantee of several afternoon gatherings. It is also not a guarantee that it will not be able to replace such a certificate with experience, not college, not doctorate, not postgraduate education or training. Not a single certificate can give the doctor the right to operate, so no certificate can give the right to manage large state-owned companies that carry with them large and responsibility. And I personally fear most of those who think it's a guarantee of quality if it belongs and works in chains, banks, telecommunications companies or God forbid investment funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46435	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46436	Thank you very much, my colleague Maric and I agree completely here. In any event, the objective, and should also be the goal of coming to the supervisory boards, quality, professional, capable people who could contribute to the development of this society and this company. But unfortunately, in practice it is not always so. I'm, so now I'm going to say that since I've called here publicly, eight years ago, so somewhere in 2002 in the City of Zagreb when they were putting themselves in the control boards of companies, then there's a colleague who's been high-ranking now in the SDP, I won't name him, but then I named him, he was in Plinar. I know that the only thing this man knows from the gas station is to burn gas on the stove and nothing more. And let's just say that not only were in Plinar, there were those in many companies that had no idea what was going on there at all. So they're similar to you, but they're not professional. And it is these amendments to the law that allow what you said to finally come from these professional people, quality people who understand something where they come to know what this company is doing so that they can contribute to the development of this, not just to satisfy some of the functions of political, narrow interests, etc. But let's just say these are some examples and that's why I said, I didn't mention what my colleague Jovanovic wasn't listening to, he was saying, he was doing something else, and I didn't say at any time that I accused anyone but I said that it would be better if there was an intention just from that party to pass such a law, etc., and I can show it to you because I have written it, then it wasn't accepted. Certainly to prevent a lot of corruption and crime in these 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46437	Thank you. It is next to the replica, the distinguished representative and vice president of the House, Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46438	Representative Kunst talked a lot about expertise and ability in his presentation, and here he is now and in this replica. However, the fact is that this bill will not in any way contribute to the respect of expertise and ability when the administrations and supervisory boards of state-owned enterprises are elected to a greater extent, regardless of the exclusion of these laws, politicians as persons who can do so in the future. In fact, without this law, there was the possibility that they could be used professionally and capable, whether they were politicians or non-political, and that unprofessional and incompetent, those who are loyal to thieving and thieves, would be excluded from being able to dispose of public money. That wasn't working. This was not done because there was no legal basis but because thieves and thieves were networked into state structures. The only criteria I recognize are the results. You mentioned the time of the government of the Racan border. At the time, the monitoring board with politicians and non-politicals sitting in them showed results. They entered these supervisory boards and administrations, and these companies were at a loss. In 2003, or 2004, when politicians left these supervisory committees because they had lost power and the position of government, and the non-politicals, because you had no criteria to drive them out of these supervisory committees, took over new supervisory boards and new administrations, they took over businesses with pluses and good results.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46439	I also thank the reply to the replica, the distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46440	Well, counterpart Antunovic is certain that no law, no regulation can guarantee anything, clearly. Everything depends on people and so it is clear that there are people in both your party and other parties and in our party who are who they are and who are prone to corruption, etc. And it's not a secret in the end. But the fact is that this is the very law that these state officials, and I especially think about them when I speak, who are prone to corruption, will no longer be in a position to actually carry out this corruption. Why? Because it's precisely these government officials who are most often head of the supervisory board. They are mostly either chairmans of supervisory committees or deputies, meaning persons who have a significant impact on the decisions of the supervisory boards. So, these very amendments to the law prevent it. And they will no longer be in that position to influence such decisions, that is to say, that individuals are affecting them and there is, in fact, a circle of closed corruption that has been rolling for many years. But since we started that, it would be good, since I know that you have certainaffinities towards the City of Zagreb, that this particular model is applied to the City of Zagreb. Not only in the City of Zagreb but also in the other units of local self-government, then we will avoid, at the level of the entire state, the actual corruption and the nepotism that governs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46441	Thank you. It is the turn of the replica, the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46442	Dear colleague Kunst, I hope I didn't hear correctly, but you just said that officials who are prone to corruption will be less likely to be corrupt. I hope that if you know some officials who are prone to corruption that you will advocate not being officials anymore, not reducing their chance of being corrupt. But I didn't want to replicate it, one other thing. In your debate, you said that officials, primarily ministers and State Secretarys, because they're mostly on company supervisory committees, they were bone in the throat. Will you please explain how it was a bone in the throat in Brodosplit, how Kalmeta is a bone in the throat in HZ or, for example, Vice President Shuker as the bone in the throat of Croatia is insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46443	I would like to thank you for your reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46444	My colleague Lugarić certainly, since you didn't mean it as part of the replica, then listen, as far as I'm concerned, that the officials who exclude this law from being present more on the supervisory boards will be able to deal less with these actions corrupt, criminal, etc., I think the logic of things, regardless of what you think about this Law will not prevent such officials. Now that you've already asked me, then I could ask you a question here for dozens of companies, companies where there are members of the supervisory board, but not only in tens, and even 15, starting with the Church that I don't now count and that I don't invite you here since there are some sitting here, were also in the supervisory committees of certain companies that are totally, and I would say not only totally, but were destroyed, where it was also written about certain criminal actions, from ACI to Rijeka Bank, I think now that I don't mention everything here so that it would turn out to be that we're transferring some things to each other, so you know that both sides are safe to have a shell in the cereals and normally that doll is at the level of the officials, I just have to say that in your time it wasn't really been so much of an affair that we't being discovered today, and it was the same and now that there could be a list of how the people in their offices were in their jobs and their jobs in their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46445	And Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46446	Your Honor, by listening to you, the question is who is actually ruling this country. Who appoints members of the Supervisory Boards in public enterprises, since as you said yourself, they control nothing, but collect the money of their citizens, or citizens of the Republic. That's where you were referring to the monitoring committees at the local self-government. You said there should be professional, quality, capable people on the Supervisory Boards. Whether the current members of the Supervisory Board, the chairman of the Supervisory Boards, I particularly think of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, are not professional, high-quality people, so I repeat only your words. On the other hand, you know that two members of the supervisory board who sat in Đakovština d.d. In the city of Djakov, 32% of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia represented about 100 million kunas that are now worthless. And where, by their work, they were reluctant to support the management decisions of an entire city, and a large part of Slavonia was placed in a very unfavourable position, since Đakovština was placed somewhere around 1,500 family economies, that several 100-ths of small and medium-sized enterprises were lying on it and 550 people were lying on it. Instead, the state finds a way to help understand its responsibility at Djakovština, the government's president orders publicly through the Croatian Radio, how the government has done what the mayor and mayor have done to save Djakovstina. Neither the county nor the city, nor I personally have a single share in the company, although I worked at the PIC then Djakovo but the government has 32% ownership and could have a significant impact on the work of the board of directors as well. Everyone needs to understand their responsibility and find ways to help workers to pay for severance payments, and farmers to pay for their stored goods because it cannot be charged from the bankruptcy process because total technology will be destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46447	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46448	My colleague Vinkovic, look, the fact is that I can't do my duties in quality, he was a minister, I don't know what you want him to be, an academic, a lumen like he wants, if a man sits on 10, 15 monitoring boards parallelly. With his function, no one can convince me in this world that he's such a lumen expert, that he can be in these 15 supervisory committees with his office, with his job quality doing it all, he can't really do it, I'd like to see a man who could do it. And there's an example. We have an example of an ancestors where just individuals, sitting at 10, 15 not only, now I can say that it doesn't turn out... show, today there aren't so many, sometimes there were just so many, and there were very well-positioned people, in the government they were sitting at 10, supervisory boards at the time. And surely he can't do quality work, neither can he control the work of that society, nor can he control the work of the employer, but he can possibly make something more of a hole for himself if it's his biggest part of the job then and I really think that it's just for the state officials to get out of such an opportunity to sit down in how many of these supervisory boards, the boards of directors, many of them certainly don't understand the activity of 15 companies they're sitting in, I can't say that everyone is an expert for all these 15 to understand what's going on there, and in that part I thought there were normally people who are unprofessional and sitting there.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46449	And Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46450	Thank you. My colleague said what my colleague Lugarić mentioned, an interesting puzzle, let's put it this way, and I quote: "The officials who are prone to corruption". You have really hit the essence of things in this way, although this looks like a minor disease, so now you need to get the one who is prone to cold or corruption to heal, only who would give so many instructions in Croatia. Otherwise, I personally don't mind some minister protecting the interests of the owner, i.e. States in a public enterprise but I'm against him not being responsible for it, nothing else. My owner has the right to put someone there to represent him, but he has to be responsible. We mentioned the "Brodosplit" affair here several times because Minister Vukelic, who was head of the supervisory board, seemed to have come here by accident, was walking, so he arrived. He has no idea what's going on. And if it was happening, it was happening behind his back because he didn't have eyes on his back, he didn't see anything. And ate the wolf's cargo. And we see that an ordinary man has to bear a consensus for anything he does that's done harm to society or that I know what. And the third thing I'd like to mention. When some politician falls, let's not stick to those Balkan... or customs, as in the Ottoman Empire when a new sultan came, then he choked all his brothers etc. So when that institution was humanized, he shut them down for life, until the next one came and strangled him or locked him up for life. Let's civilize politics even when I've told someone before. It's never one of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46451	Yes, but all for one, one for all. Replication response, Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46452	Well, exactly what you said at the end is never one for everything. Surely because of that, I mentioned that officials who are prone to corruption. Because there are officials who are honest people, who are honest people and don't need to put them all in the same basket. Normally, those who are prone to corruption will be who they are. And in any case, this is a good thing that this law is passed. Because when it's proven to be some criminal activity, it rarely corresponds to members of the supervisory board. It's always the second line, then. Presidents of companies, directors, employers, etc. and the Supervisory Board or members of the supervisory board I would ask that someone remember, rarely, it is rare when it has only recently been answered by a member of the Supervisory Board. So in any case these amendments to the law are one quality more in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46453	Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46454	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Continuing the continued fight against corruption for which it was clearly identified, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed amendments to the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties and the Law on the Procedure of Handing over Authorities in such a way that state officials cannot be members of supervisory committees, commercial companies, and that members of supervisory committees, state-owned companies or mainly state-owned companies are appointed after a public tender previously implemented. It is highly proposed that officials may be members of no more than two administrative councils of institutions, i.e. the supervisory committees of extra-financial funds which are of particular national interest unless the special law provides that the official is a member of the Management Board of the institutions, or the Supervisory Board of the extra-financial fund in a position. The list of legal persons of special state interest on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be determined by the Croatian Parliament. For this reason, given that under the previous tender, quality experts will be appointed as members of the Supervisory Board, I support the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties and the Law on the Procedure of the Handling of Authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46455	Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46456	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbic, you said that quality experts are needed in the supervisory committees. I agree with that. And I would just point out once again that it doesn't mean they're unquality if they're government officials, and they're high-quality if they're not. Because the latest several cases of overindebtedness, say KIO, are the Orahovica Paper Industry of several hundred million kunas not supervised by state officials. And also when we say that I am based on the law of the HRT Programme Council to manage HRT what results we get. This best shows an audit report where he says that when a decent man says he's not responding to this real-state business report, and someone would deliberately say it's a falsified report. Because several hundred million kunas of loss are not shown in the audit report. This was not done by state officials, but by independent, by independent experts. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia needs those who will effectively run companies that will not look left and right, and more and more at all economic problems are being watched and shared on the left and right, and our society is becoming less and less detached to the left and right, and more and more on the up and down. So these state-owned companies should contribute to reducing these gaps between up and down, not further deepening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46457	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46458	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here, in this united debate today, we are discussing a set of laws, as Mr. Minister said in his opening statement on a set of laws regulating the status of state officials in supervisory committees and the boards of directors of the external budget funds and institutions of special interest to the state, therefore in the majority or most large ownership of the state. So even though the appearance is about technical changes, I think their significance is much greater and I can't agree with the statements that we could have heard here today in the debate of my predecessors, that these laws are figs in my pocket. In my debate, I will stick to the proposal for a law amending the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. Otherwise, the seventh amendment to the basic law passed in 2003, otherwise this is the third amendment to this law in this term of the Croatian Parliament. We changed it in 2008 and had another minor change in 2009. The law on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties is part of the legislative legal framework set out in the Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament in July 2008 as one of the 17 laws that constitute a prerequisite for the successful fight against corruption. But the amendments and additions to this law are also a confirmation of the credibility and consistency of the Croatian government's policy in further depolitisation of public affairs, as is foreseen in the proposed amendments to this law. Namely, colleagues and colleagues already in 2008 in the amendments to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties have reduced the possibility for officials to be members of supervisory boards in trading societies to two. In this proposal, amending the law, this possibility is completely removed. Therefore, state officials may exceptionally be members of the supervisory boards of extra-financial funds or of the administrative councils of institutions which are of particular national interest unless a special law provides that the duties of the Management Board are to be laid down by the institution or by the Supervisory Board of the extra-financial fund. For members of the administrative, supervisory boards of commercial companies, this law provides for the call of a public tender, appointed by the Croatian government on the proposal of the real-estate minister. And I don't mean colleagues, and I don't agree with my colleagues and colleagues with all of you who have stated that this is an escape from government responsibility, that the government is transferring its responsibility to experts. I personally appreciate it, and I will agree with all those who today have said that even previous officials who were as members of the supervisory boards in commercial societies were among them the largest number of experts. And in that part, I agree and I advocate that we also as officials take care of the honor of all Croatian officials, clearly there are exceptions among us. Otherwise, according to one of the information I found from 2009 at one point in Croatia, there were 360 officials and clearly in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties, which prescribed who is all the official in the Croatian state. I am sure that this form, that the form of a public tender and the greater opening of interested persons, will contribute to the improved work of supervisory committees. I will agree with all those who have said that the expert is an expert and that we should not share on the left and right because those who have introduced today we are fighting, today the left side of the Assembly stands up against the public tender, expresses immediately and prioritizes the suspicions of such elected members of the supervisory boards and we are aware that in 2003 you are the same, pardoning 2001 public competitions and boasting transparency and others in selecting employees, not only employees but at that time and officials in the state administration. And look at the miracles, I always like to repeat, all these competitions were selected experts from those four or six parties of the coalition government. But I call today in this debate, so these three laws, so that we can all stop together with such a thing because the fight against corruption requires consensus, there is no delay, and it needs to be started immediately. Your refusal or an excuse not to accept the Law on the Transfer of Authorities which stipulates that a public tender would make the elected members of the Supervisory Board virtually stay after the election in these supervisory boards of companies with the exception you said. I can answer you when HDZ wins parliamentary elections what a problem it will be if members or experts as members of the supervisory committees appointed by the Government continue to monitor the work of these companies in the bulk or majority of state ownership. My colleagues and colleagues, these laws, this set of laws, I think that the general objectives that we have set in the anti-corruption strategy, of which I will list only a few. It is an improvement in the legal and institutional framework for the effective and systematic repression of corruption, the creation of a precondition for preventing corruption at all levels, and we know that then it is the one in charge of officials. Then, raising public awareness of the harmfulness of corruption and the need to suppress it but also affirming the access of zero tolerance to corruption, which once again highlights the confirmation of the consistency of the Croatian government in the further process of depolitisation of public administration and not only public administrations but also here are companies. I will support the amendments to this set of laws from all above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46459	Thank you. Two replicas. The first is Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46460	A colleague of parliament asked one question regarding the SDP's position. He says, what a problem it will be if members of the Supervisory Board after a change of political authority members of the supervisory board who will be elected in public tenders after a change in political authority remain on the supervisory boards. No matter if these people have good results and believe the rights, democratic, responsible political power will not change those people. However, if they, as members of the supervisory boards in companies where they are, have no results but have affairs, losses, abuses, etc., if they are found to cover such dishonest and illegal actions, then they will certainly be unable to protect the political decision of the majority who brought them to those places, even though they may not have met the criteria spoken of. And finally, I have a question for you. What was the problem with you coming to power exactly the kind of people who came for expertise, references, who had behind them the results of leading the firm in crisis, which you inherited from the former political government and without question removed. I'm not talking about politicians, they were supposed to leave, but what you are and why you moved such people from places and from companies that had great results, which showed great steps towards the initial state in which these people came to the supervisory boards.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46461	Reply to the replica of Ms. Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46462	A colleague said in her replica, only to the first part to answer. The parliamentary majority of counterpart Antunovic does not protect those who are not responsible for their work today and there are SUZANA BILić VARDIĆ: A colleague said in her replica immediately, only the first part to respond, the parliamentary majority of counterpart Antunovic does not protect those who are not responsible for their work today, and they are in the positions of members of the supervisory board that this Croatian government shows from day to day. The second thing, there won't be any problem, and there you went, you drive the water to your mill, your guys said today, from your ranks they couldn't accept it when HDZ lost the election and the SDP came to power, and that the supervisory committees left professional people appointed by the HDZ or this coalition government. I replied, in my debate, that I could change it, that your excuse was not worth it at all, that that is why you would not support this law, this set of laws, because HDZ will win parliamentary elections and we will not be having any problem for professional people who will have results and be responsible for their work. And third, you asked me why we were changing professional people. My fellow Members, because we had the practice of your authority in 2001, and if you listened carefully to me in the debate, I prayed, and I invited all those present in this House to stop with such practice and simply to discuss certain things that mean the improvement of the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens and citizens is a moment around which we must reach a consensus on certain issues and fight corruption immediately, because I do not see why this set of laws that the government has proposed in the first reading. So everything that we have presented today in the debates will be discussed and included in the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46463	And Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46464	A colleague of mine should know that we cannot break up this practice because you have two mandates in power. Therefore, responsibility can be borne by the opposition, but above all by pointing to what the position was doing. However, it should also be known that the current members of the supervisory boards were also eligible for their own property, but so far no embezzlement in state-owned companies has been held accountable for their own property, except for these cases of organised crime. I am also taking the opportunity to see that there is also a minister of administration, as it may happen when the government hand over a man who has been acting for five months, it is also a matter of preventing conflicts of interest, having the right to pay, full pay, six months, and that response comes after several haste to the same ministry after six months. That may have been the part that was tied to the rapids. As for the conduct of a public tender itself, if these tenders are for, as you said and how you all claim to be quality, capable and professional people, you are likely to refute this section relating to the ministers themselves, so I could draw the conclusion that they are therefore unprofessional, unquality and incompetent people. If in such a way as through public competitions, but no one can argue that in the Croatian highways, in HEP, in any public companies there are public competitions, then the coloring of tunnels by several million kunas could have happened. If they do so, then I'm afraid for the future of the work of these supervisory committees, and then this competition won't make any difference, but it'll change again as it was. And we're all witnessing that there is employment in state-owned companies, in ministries, etc. With a membership card.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46465	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46466	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In his replica, a colleague asked a question from the minister of the administration. I don't want to, and I'm not professional in being a management minister, but my colleague told me that I should know something, so I guess you should know that no law can cover all the cases that can happen in practice or in life, and so does the one that you've set up at a local level for someone to conduct a 5-month duty, and then have the right to pay six months' wages. Otherwise I'm familiar because I come from a regional level with cases like that and there is. What you said about responsibility, most bear responsibility and I will tell you again, the parliamentary majority is now sanctioning and doing everything that contributes to the improvement and progress of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, and it is certain that the fight against corruption is one of these measures. It is also the same to amend these laws in which officials are prevented from being present on the supervisory boards in order to, in addition to all those obligations they have, as soon as they are officials of something, as soon as they are officials are professional. And to my colleague Vinkovic, I said that in the debate, and now you're trying to reverse it again, no one claims that current officials are not capable and professional. Those who have not done their job properly have been removed, and so that everyone can do their job fairly and properly, we are going through public competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46467	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46468	Thank you. And in fact, all morning we listen more or less on the subject, it comes down to whether the people representing the state, primarily the ministers, in the supervisory committees were as responsible as other citizens in our society were otherwise for any important function they were acting or in one privileged position. The worst of our society, and we said that there is a stereotype of politicians as corrupt, unfair persons, it seems to me that the worst in such an atmosphere in our society if we were to practice that the law is not the same for all, that there is no equality of citizens. The greatest misery or protection of a society from its erosion, anarchy, decay, loss of a moral foundation, a universal moral foundation, is created when its laws are broken. So we as the Supreme Legislative Body in this country should be very sensitive when in any way these laws come into question, because we are passing these laws. I'm not going to get into this right now because there's been a lot of talk here about how laws are passed, is it really just naked majorization, i.e. The majority outvotes the minority that she said she spoke and the results are known in advance, and the proposals come in 99% of the government's cases, so it looks like the power centre is then in the executive power and there is no one balance between these three types of government legislative, executive and judicial authorities. I think some examples of recent practice have raised these questions to the big bells in our society. There were several mentions today of the "Brodosplit" affair. I would repeat it in a few words just because it is a paradigm case, a surveyed example of how we should not behave and how we are very prone to, not all, but the majority, to see through the fingers when it comes to some minister who in this case was the chairman of a supervisory board who knew nothing like nothing, all of this happened past him even though we could see from what we had seen on the insight that the very supervisory board had been informed of the dangers of the interests of society, state, squires, citizens, how would you like if these contracts were accepted which seemed to be more unfavourable than some other contracts. When the opposition asked to discuss this by seeking political responsibility nothing more than that, then one not only wall was encountered, but also one fierce attack on those who sought a perfectly normal thing in democratic societies, which is that someone is responsible for what was done, and if he acts as a political function to bear political responsibility. There's been a lot of water from there, ever since. The question has now been raised here and this third form of government, judicial authorities, speed, slowness, etc. The question of the police and her work has also been raised. Police who have already claimed that there are no violations of the law, etc. It was about a strange online and a grave that got intertwined to somehow stop any possibility of criticizing or bringing to the light the bottom of what was obvious to everyone. We like to use the word transparently, and there is a beautiful Croatian word called white. So something that's white is something that's really visible to everyone. So I'm going to quote here the President of the State on his departure which on one show on Croatian TV said "from the plane it's about that and that" and we haven't seen from the parter what it's about. We were sitting in front of the attention that was going on. And what's most interesting is that most of the people in the hall were clapping. In the name of what? Also on behalf of maybe one tomorrow's reckoning that also won't be normal for civilized societies when it comes to the memory of the head, when there's a punishment, when there's a discipline, when there's only one blame, when one wants to hide reality again, so you find the wonders of one person who's guilty of everything. And while we criticized that person, we took the punches not only of the aperkat and the plexus, but of God under our armpits. I was gonna say under the belt, under the belt. It's our political reality and let's not beat ourselves as we're society trained in culture, democracy, pluralism and all the most beautiful things that happen in front of us. And that's why I repeat, I don't see a problem in sitting there, because she as the majority owner, let's say some public firm, protect her interests. But the one sitting there isn't some special person, it's not some person untouchable, it's not the king of the sun you can't even look at, let alone touch. You know how some kings died? For they had no mercy to touch them, so they didn't help them when they were drowning. So we simply need all of us together, and it seems to me that more tolerance and more political culture and more responsibility for the call we are taking, which means that if someone is guilty, then let them answer at least politically, and whoever determines some other guilt should determine them if they are. We weren't ready for that. So, I welcome that one minister can't be on 50 boards. But I don't mind him being in one if he's responsible for what he's doing there. Unfortunately, it's proven so far that we weren't inclined to do it, and now we're all getting hit by the public, all of us, and we're all going to come up more and more, and we're all going to be stuck in the same basket, and we're not going to be looking at anyone who's watching party uniforms, but we're going to end up saying that we're all going to pay that one piece of honor function to fall on such a low branch. And I'm not into it because I'm saying we're not all the same and we're never gonna be the same and people are never the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46469	And people need to be equal, not like you say in Mexico, like that unfortunate Emperor Maximilian. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. He's gone. He's losing his word. House Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46470	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If someone got into this debate on the sidelines like this, they'd think we were discussing abuses, crime and criminals. And we are actually discussing here today a law that should define some important provisions on how members of the supervisory committees are appointed in state and mostly state-owned enterprises. I think that because of our citizens who follow or follow this directly, it should be said that these supervisory committees are not bodies where they sit, or at least they shouldn't be bodies where they sit privileged to collect some fees and thus supplement their home budgets. Certainly not doing anything except being close and being similar to those who are in power no matter what authority it was. The supervisory boards are, in fact, bodies intervening between the owner and the management of the body which, on behalf of the owner, oversees the business of a company and how the administration does so on behalf of the owner. They should monitor whether these companies make a profit and loss, or what needs to be changed if businesses lose. They should inform the owners, be in constant communication and be of the trust of the owners. That's about the mere essence of these supervisory committees. And that is why it is logical when we talk about public or mostly state-owned enterprises that the government responsible for these companies chooses people who will be of her trust, but it must not only be people of her trust but also people who are willing to take responsibility for the situation in these companies, which will not be there, the government has trust in them, and they must enable the administrations or themselves to do harm to both the government and the state and the citizens and the taxpayers. So they should also be honest people, they should be people who know how to do this job, who are educated for it, who have experience in such jobs, who have some references, who have proved themselves to be a positive reference in the management of such businesses. And it certainly must be people who in their former lives, economic, political or any practice, have not repented, who have not sinned against the law. It's very simple. What, though, is the problem with today’s discussion? The problem is that, over the past 20 years, the administrations and supervisory committees that have appointed political structures have been the most frequently covered for large robberies and abuses that ended in the shut-down of businesses, bankruptcys, job losses and heavy damage to the Croatian economy, and I will say great harm to every political elite, because through the sins of these administrations and supervisory boards, in some ways, the criteria and political responsibility of those who put those administrations and supervisory boards. And largely with the right, because there is indeed a political one, but there is also a material responsibility, and for this political responsibility was somewhat borne by political elites, but the material responsibility was not borne by any member of the board, not one member of the Supervisory Board, not one politician who was both a politician and a member of the Supervisory Board. It has been said here today in a debate that the parliamentary majority does not protect abuses. The other day, I was watching the Prime Minister's interview, at the same time as the president of the Croatian Democratic Community, whose journalist asked the question, Madam President, are you surprised by the width and extent of the abuse and corruption that you are now meeting as Prime Minister? The answer was very simple, yes, I'm surprised. Don't mind me wondering how surprised it is that she is because in this House, me and my colleagues have repeatedly referred to the question of Croatian roads, we have pointed to reasonable doubts and abuses. I remember personally having major problems because of my political statement that the government is not implementing, that is, not an action plan to prevent corruption, but to encourage corruption. Well, there are no processes going against management today, so I hope maybe against the board members tomorrow for the actions that are happening now or that are going to happen tomorrow. These processes and these investigations are being conducted for the works that have taken place in the last 5, 6 years. I really don't know who was blind, who was deliberately blind, who allowed these supervisory committees, although they should have known, to point out what was happening to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, did not. It was only given from a political level. It was also suggested that the supervisory boards were not doing their job, it pointed to concrete examples when the confusion broke, when the affair went public, when the state's attorney and police started conducting investigations. Well, to be honest, I can't agree with you anymore or I can't stand the fact that we're always treating each other for a long time, that we can't stop. I think we finally have to start thinking about how to stop something. I think this law, the way it is, I usually support that politicians shouldn't sit on boards, but I don't think this law is going to stop it, it won't change anything. I think that politicians should not sit on supervisory committees because it is a democratic practice of developed countries, the democratic practice of the European Union that we are seeking, and because one politician, especially at a high state level, has so much to do, that it is extremely difficult for him to take on these other responsible responsibilities, to get out of the crisis or to participate in the withdrawal of certain concrete businesses and to worry about how he will preserve jobs at a specific level. But what will change? Nothing will change because no one has defined the criteria anywhere. Only the criteria can prevent what we were talking about and what the coverage was about were right on the supervisory boards and the administrations that were appointed without criteria. Whether they are politicians, they are non-political if there are no criteria there will be no results. There's another thing I'm very afraid of for the future, which is so-called. certification of supervisors. I'm glad your HDZ colleague pointed out that. For God's sake, what was that all about? 20 thousand kuna for a course for supervisors, a true god at the university and colleges, because of such projects, the Rector of Zagreb University ruled and replaced and replaced for the first time in the history of the University of the Faculty of Economics, and the students of those courses that cost 20 thousand kuna, slightly less, were members of the administration of these public state-owned companies who not only manipulated these certificates but also spent the money of those companies to finance certification for them to be allegedly qualified in these public tenders tomorrow to do the job. And that's scary, that's just inadmissible. If you intend to apply it as criteria, then you really show in advance what you are prepared to do. Public tenders in law will be only cover once again for the same criteria, and the criteria will be who is loyal to thief and thief because you have a mandate to get as much out as you can in that term and tomorrow let it all go to waste. Look, it's not gonna be good, it's not gonna work, and I'm against that kind of practice. I believe only in the criteria and the results of those that should be placed in those places.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46471	Thank you. Two replicas. First Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46472	Thank you very much. My colleague Antunović, you mentioned the real thing. This certification of supervisory committees, which unfortunately does not serve the honor of one institution who once had a much greater reputation, which is the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, where its dean is invited to cover the story exactly that way I think these laws are being done, to cover the story that again people who are not in any way adequate can prove that they are able to run supervisory committees, and that in fact they only take school fees and summer school manners at the Faculty of Economics to graduates to certain managers who are essentially no additional knowledge but they just got, I would say, a diploma with which I can then wave and say, "We are capable, and these others are not." So we already have a lot of examples in life where things are going to be covered, but there is no general will or desire to change things not only in principle but in real life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46473	Mr. Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46474	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm gonna do for my colleague, even though she's gone. I will say that I have really said that the criteria and conditions in the competition are among other things a high professional prepares qualifications for certain business opportunities for supervision, but also these certificates which are not only obtained in Zagreb but are also obtained at the Split Veleučište i.e. at the Faculty of Economics and Split. Surely with high professional training, higher professional education and this certificate is an additional guarantee that they are familiar with all the rights and obligations that supervisory boards have. I hope she forgot or didn't forget that she herself took part in several, almost ten boards, and in a few I found in this information was the president. I don't know what happened to "Print," and she was the chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mrs. Antunovic. Also, I remember the negative business of the Vesnik when she was chairman of the Supervisory Board and in the Vesnik. If these are the criteria we're talking about now and if there's something to improve I don't know what demagogue shows that everything that's good, which is good, which has its future, which has its own progress, which has changed those things that so far haven't been met by the SDP authorities or in our government, you don't want to let them change by this law and this way of electing the chairman of the supervisory boards. We see here, there's a lot of companies that have gone missing in this big list, and you've been on their monitoring boards of presidents or members. There's been a lot of it. And in the end, I want to say that this way is a relationship to companies and state-owned companies and those who... rated negatively in those elections when the Croatian people said you were not doing well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46475	Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46476	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Vice President, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In fact, here's what we've been hearing since the morning of this debate, these 3rd agenda points, I've had to remind myself from time to time what we're actually discussing at the points of the agenda because it seems to me that at least these discussions were about the points of the agenda and the subject of these agenda points. It is clear to me that these topics, especially at the time of television transmission, are very attractive for personal promotion, for presenting to their voters, but I think that with the criticism that I absolutely respect and need, it would be good to offer some solutions, and I haven't heard any concrete solutions all this time that would result in the improvement of these amendments to the laws that are in front of us. And I'll remind you what we're discussing today. The debate on the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of the Interest of Public Obligations, the amendments to the Law on the procedure for the handover of the Government, so the laws governing the provisions relating to membership in the supervisory committees of commercial companies in the bulk of state ownership. The proposed amendments show the clear view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the members of the Committee are not appointed from the ranks of state officials, which I absolutely support because I believe that such a commitment is in favour of the depolitisation of companies, thus reducing the possibility of coming into conflict with the interests of officials, which will result in a reduction in the possibility of committing any corrupt or other criminal offences. I believe that these amendments to those laws, along with a number of other measures adopted in the legislative solutions in recent years, have, in particular, been adopted since 2008, a further contribution to the upgrade of the existing legislative framework aimed at combating corruption and organised crime and reaffirming the commitment and determination of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the fight against corruption. In particular, these amendments to the Law propose that experts with the necessary qualifications for the job be appointed in the supervisory boards of companies in the future, based on an earlier public tender. Thus, the provisions of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials are in line with the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Dispute of Interest in Public Liabilities, in such a way as to delete part of the provisions under which officials could be members of the Supervisory Committees of Commercial Companies in Mostly State Property or in which the State has a majority share or majority of shares. It would therefore remain an exception that officials may exceptionally be members of a maximum of two administrative councils of institutions, i.e. supervisory committees of extra-financial funds which are of particular national interest. Accordingly, the Law on the procedure of the handover of the authorities, part of the provision in Article 7 relating to the appointment of presidents and members of the supervisory boards of commercial companies of special national interest to the disposal, is excessive because therefore officials under these laws cannot be members of those supervisory boards of commercial companies anymore, and of course they cannot even place their mandate at their disposal. So for these reasons, I will support the adoption of amendments to all these three laws that we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46477	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46478	Dear Vice President, here I think the most important thing in this whole story is to say that the key thing about the adoption of your law is the responsibility of what comes out of it, or the consequences. This proposal, which has shifted from what it looked like before, will not address the issue of responsibility but will address the guilt from the state officials at the moment they are in a position to no longer be members of the supervisory boards to other people, but this responsibility will still be the subject of what is being discussed here. And that is why the SDP has referred its interpretation of the state of public enterprises to the procedure, because so far we have heard nothing about direct responsibility, i.e. because of some responsibility no one has answered. This best shows the example that the finance minister, who is also the chairman of the INA Supervisory Board, is not only responsible for the loss of INA in 2008, out of a billion kuna, but also progressed to the Deputy Prime Minister in 2009. That's what we're talking about. State officials, the only reason why we are and against state officials being members of the Supervisory Board is the inability to do quality work, which does not mean that they are not or can't be qualified to do business, but in the absence of time, in the absence of the things needed for such operation, if they can't do the job in quality, then it is better not to do so and therefore we are against being members of the Supervisory Board. As you see politicians in the supervisory committees in the state firm in the last few years, not that it has not been harmful, it was not at all a topic of any research, conversation, change of head, shift, and it is happening that state-owned companies, public-interest companies in the Republic of Croatia achieve weaker results. And the best example is the comparison indicators in 2008 compared to 2007 whose data we have because the final accounts for 2009 were not made and which show that the profit or such management resulted, here, we were doing an analysis for 21 companies where the total profit achieved fell by 17%. And it's only $384 million. For this 21 companies, which are the largest companies in the Republic of Croatia, some of the following data are also interesting. The state budget subsidies for that 21 companies in 2008, increased by 4% compared to 2007 and increased by 2.5 billion. So public companies are doing business with 7 times less profits than they get money from the state budget. At the same time in these companies, i.e. The good part of these companies not that they didn't reduce the people who work, the cost of the workers, but just increased the cost. Thus, in 2008 the staff costs increased by 8% compared to 2007. As if these societies had grown 8%, they were not 17%, the weaker business results were compared to last year. The largest record of the growth of the number of employees is the Zagreb-Rijeka highway company of 22%. With what logic in one year almost one-fifth of new employees should be admitted to the company that manages the Zagreb-Rijeka highway. Then, Croatian roads, Croatian highways all companies that reveal themselves in recent months, probably because of the re-election of the state's attorney, the need for his re-election, numerous affairs. Because in the end, if you pay 5 times as much as you pay for 5 times the work paid could be done 5 times the work, and more importantly, it could have worked 5 times as many people. Therefore, the most important thing is to manage public-interest companies fairly and rationally with state-owned enterprises. This bill will only remove state officials from the supervisory boards, but nothing important in business will change it. This is what the conclusion is, and that is why we have sent an interpretation in which we are looking for all the measures that are necessary to make state-owned companies, public-owned companies, do business in a transparent manner, to do business in the professional way, to do business in the interests of Croatian citizens, to make public procurement transparent, not to leak in Croatia over 12 billion kunas per year into non-transparent public procurement, to overpaid businesses by 25%. Finally, it is something that can bring economic growth but also provide new jobs. That money just disappears. And that's why we went with the interpellation to try to figure out how to work things out in public enterprises. This law we don't even know when it will come into effect, i.e. when government officials will be removed from the working committee because it does not write, but the possibility is provided, that law will not solve these problems. What needs to be done urgently is to reorganise and restructure where necessary and it is necessary for business results which can be seen almost everywhere. There's no state-owned company where flowers bloom. There are only those who are in a better position than others, and these are those with a semi-monopolist position, those are those where the simple state is one of the biggest contracting entities. And to go back to another important thing that should always be said at any moment, which is that unfortunately public enterprises are one of the greatest indifference generators. For the 21st company we've been working on research, it results in the total liabilities of companies to suppliers being 7 billion kuna. With the total income of these 50 billion kuna companies. Seven billion kuna. And that's a 10% increase compared to 2008 and 2007. Seven billion kuna. This is over if all public companies are included in this sum of half of all obligations owed to legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. Public companies generate half the indifference in this country. That's what's the key problem. And that's why we sent a few laws, a measure of how to resolve this situation, how not to order new papers until old claims are settled. However, there is no hearing, it has not passed, it has not been accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46479	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46480	Thank you very much. You noticed a thing that is one of the key things in this law, which is why at the beginning of the debate, I said it was basically a fig in my pocket. There is no time limit when conclusions will be carried out, but says the election of new supervisory committees, the old supervisory committees act, which in practice I am convinced will mean until the next elections then a month, two, three before the next elections we will call the competitions and by the Law on the transfer of power we will disable and plot that then the professional administrations will remain for 4 years. Which means someone noticed it well in the debate. The new power after the new parliamentary elections to come will correspond, and public enterprises, administrations, or supervisory committees, and thus administrations will set up those who will no longer be in a position to exercise power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46481	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46482	Thank you, Comrade Maras. The way that this can be prevented and we see it as the only way that, in accordance with best European practices and members of the Supervisory Board, individual management opportunities are allocated. But in a way that they are materially and criminally responsible for the business of public enterprises. That's what's key. When they are in a position to respond materially and criminally as members of the Supervisory Board for the Business of Public Enterprises, then they will not mind the results of a particular administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46483	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00. It is Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46484	We're moving on with the session. Maras, you have a word in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46485	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I see there's no proposal. That's probably a little after lunch when they get together. I won't speak for long since I've spoken in action and in front of the club, but I need to look back at some things that have been said in the debate. Public enterprises, as I said in the last six years, have a negative trend, especially in 2008. It is likely that the results for 2009 will be even worse but this does not reflect the change in policy vis-à-vis public enterprises, or it does not reflect that incompetent administrations are being changed, that supervisory committees are calling for responsibility for these poor results because the Supervisory Board is not a place where someone should sit in order to have a certain influence or interest but to do concrete work. The Supervisory Board should be able to set objectives and ultimately see if these objectives are achieved and thus evaluate the effectiveness of the administration, give it a new mandate or change management and seek a better one. Unfortunately, we take public companies for granted only as a reality of a certain interest and therefore quite often also representatives sit down, so some of us in the supervisory boards don't know what's going on in companies but accept places on supervisory boards to make an interest in that company where sometimes even more significant than some ministries because these are companies that have three, four billion kunas, tens of thousands of employees and of course by looking at people wrongly think they have an interest but ultimately of liability for bad business there's nothing. And according to the laws and in accordance with the Commercial Society Act, members of the Supervisory Boards are also responsible and I agree with that the thesis that criminal responsibility should also be introduced for the poor performance of the job. And then people would not accept such places but rather the opposite, they would refuse to realize that they can't do the job of a parliamentary representative. Here, my colleague Hebrang, unfortunately not here now, replicated me or it is a replica, but he has corrected the incorrect allegations, said that he is a member of the Supervisory Board of Croatia Insurance and that this company is doing well, has good results, etc. I am absolutely certain that Mr. Hebrang, with all his duties as representative, the club president, and even in one part now for two, three months while being HDZ's presidential candidate, was unable to carry out his duties in quality. And then it's impossible to put two, three jobs together and say that quality work is done. Or Minister Shuker. So you can't be president of the INA Supervisory Board, Croatia Insurance, you can't be a member of the Croatian lottery assembly. It's just not possible to accomplish it that way. What I'm saying is I agree, and we'll all agree here that this practice so far needs to be changed badly but it is clear that we should also express the deadlines. The SDP representative club, or SDP, headed for a session of the Parliament, so there will be a debate at this session on our interpretation. There are clear deadlines in there until certain actions have to be made and I call as we will support in front of the club two laws that we think is good, no matter what it says, until when the members of the Supervisory Board change we will support the first two laws and the third law will not be because we said we can't accept responsibility for something that the previous government hasn't done, or she can't accept responsibility and cementing the situation. But we're going to accept the first two laws, and that's why I'm calling, and I'd like to see in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club to support these good things and in interpretation because similar things are written there and similar conclusions are there days, so if the SDP is going to support your proposals, I don't see why these proposals that come from the SDP are in the interest and we've heard a lot of calls from HDZ representatives today that we need to build together this better image of state officials and that we should watch that responsibility be greater than it has been. I hope that's the case, although in my experience I have a lot of skepticism about it, but I will pay particular attention to seeing if anyone in HDZ will respect these proposals that are SDPs and are undoubtedly good at all. Of course, here in the end I'm going to say that it's impossible to move on like this. State-owned companies are in great difficulty, generators are inequitable. I don't want to go back to 2000 as some HDZ advocates, because by that same logic, you could go back to ninety and say that that's when HDZ divided all the valuable companies that were and made a privatisation that may have been legal but absolutely immoral. That's why it's not good to talk about what happened in 2000, what happened in 2003, but to see what is now. And you need to be critical of yourself and say why we haven't done anything in six years. We've led companies to do extremely bad business, that criminal activities happen in companies, and that way they should be a little critical to themselves. It is impossible for these public companies to be a world to themselves, and I would say the number of employees, that productivity is smaller, that the number of employees is higher, that the wages on average are higher than in the economy and there is absolutely no justification for that. I'll just say a few figures from 2008. The new employees were, so income was reduced, the results were negative but the new employees were more than in 2007 and that was, for example, the cost for employees was 8% higher and certain companies were employed by Auto-road Rijeka-Zagreb 22% more employees, Croatia Airlines there is a colleague Lovrin around 9% more employees, Croatian road 6% etc. So it's absolutely here that these companies serve to take care of certain people, and most often when they have no or no need to hire people. We saw the case in HEP, a case known to Buljubasic where the man was employed, worked at the HDZ centre and received salary at HEP. So, with such things to stop, I welcome it, the SDP welcomes it because it is in the interest of the SDP that tomorrow when it comes to the state's responsibility to settle these things before that. There's no reason to wait another year and a half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46486	Thank you. And we have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46487	Well, since Vice President Jarnjak is holding the presidency, I must immediately correct the incorrect allegations and then move on, right? So it's incorrect that the HDZ had divided all major companies before the '90s, as a colleague claims. He regularly skipped the period from 2002 to 2003 and returned in the 1990s because large companies were launched only after 2000. And secondly, what's wrong, it's a bit of an insult to the MPs, couldn't have been members of the supervisory board, but the supermen of some of the SDP government were 32 supervisory committees, so I'm very interested in how well they did it. We saw what companies we inherited after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46488	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Gordan Maras. But not a replica, but a business injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46489	No, no, a very clear violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 210. I didn't say you shared before the '90s, but in the '90s, and you're probably something...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46490	Your Honor, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and you insist on pushing for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, and don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46491	Yeah, he said...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46492	Please, you can't take me for granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46493	Okay, but the wrong quote he said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46494	You can't talk. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and don't do that. Let's move on. It's time to correct the inaccuracies. Dear Representative Bozica Šolić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, in your discussion you spoke of consciousness, self-criticalness, etc., etc. However...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46496	Correction of incorrect... that's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46497	It's not true that you're a self-critical colleague of Maras. I will now prove it to you in fact. If you were self-critical then you would remember the Zagreb Holding and the 10 years of SDP rule in the city of Zagreb today. And I will now read to you who your members of the Supervisory Board are in holding in Zagreb, but listen to me carefully. They're all members of the SDP. ... I beg you, Mr. President. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The chairman of the Supervisory Board of Zagreb Holding is Ivan Šikic, is SDP-oovac, je. Members of the Supervisory Board of Holding Božidar Špiček, Petar Kuzelev, Ivan...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46498	Thank you! Your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46499	And five more. Here, I beg you to be self-critical...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46500	Let's move on with the individual debate. ... Oh, please! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Look, I'm playing this debate so wide and you keep on coming to order, then you're looking for purgatory. Don't do this. If it's an injury, if it isn't, you'll get a warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46501	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is very precise, Mr. Vice President, look at the stenogram. Mrs. Solic said I was talking about self-criticity, etc. I said the government should be self-critical.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46502	What's the injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46503	Well, the injury is that she doesn't fix something I said. I didn't say that at all. Well, a very simple breach of the Rules of Procedure can't be simpler than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46504	Your Honor, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure... Please! It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, don't... Please, sit down. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] You're getting a warning because you're using outside the need of an institution injure the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46505	But she wasn't talking about what I was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46506	We're going with an individual discussion. Next, distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46507	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, I would indeed agree with the proposal that state officials should no longer be supervised. When we personally ask which rating is the politician, then we see that we are at the top, I would say, unpopular people, that we are simply people with little confidence in the citizens of Croatia. We can prove ourselves to be very capable people, we're no longer trusted. He doesn't believe it. And that's why I think every responsible government has to do everything to simply, not wanting to pollemize who, what, to people who are officials or are active in politics, are no longer in the management of companies. And in that part, no matter what, I think the government's proposal is fine. We always wonder why it feels like that. I want to make it very clear that not wanting to talk about criminal responsibility is a good part of the politicians who have been on boards never liked to accept political responsibility for something that happened during their surveillance. Therefore, that is the difference I would say from European behaviour and Croatian behaviour. That, if politicians are already in control in Europe, they accept political responsibility for what happened, whether they were able to see or not, whether they could recognize or not. It remains a responsibility, a responsibility if you've been under surveillance. Just because you are a politician you have to accept political responsibility for what is happening and I would say at least some act is always behind it, either resigning or I would say an attempt to resolve that part of the policy's responsibility. Unfortunately, we have never recognized people who were under surveillance in Croatia that they have accepted political responsibility and that is why we are losing our popularity. There is a question and responsibilities of the government. Why? Because neither the government that set them up, which should in some way justify them, accept, resolve them, had enough power to recognize political responsibility in case of failures and failures in commercial societies, and therefore bring its own acts. And that's exactly what unfortunately made it worse for politicians on boards. We have no testimony that the government has changed because of the failure and political responsibility of the people. No, she just moved them, solved them, but she didn't change them. Thus, we also see certain government problems in that part. However, the owner has the right to seek for harsh oversight and material compensation for damages done. Apparently, it was a shame. Unfortunately, these damages are always paid by the taxpayer regardless of whether it is the economy or the citizens of Croatia, but the government has never made sure that due to poor governance, poor supervision tries to make up for the damages that have taken place in commercial societies by a settlement or through a court. And it probably accumulated everything together with a negative view about politicians on the board of directors and it is evident that we have to look for other solutions and that in that part we can really try to see if they are experts, professionals who can do a better job than politicians. But here we now come to a dilemma that is already in public trying to place. Is it an escape from the political responsibility of the owner of a state of commerce? And that's where we have to send a very clear message. There can be no escape policy or I would say to the Government that they are politically responsible for and banned professionals through public competitions for failures in companies. And the most important thing is for the government to send a very clear message. There will be no escape and there will be no I would say irresponsible behavior that we simply say tomorrow so they are professionals, so they are chosen in a public competition and politics is not the answer. At the same time, it is evident that the Government has far more to discuss in its sessions how to manage Croatian assets in companies or I would say through institutional funds. Therefore, the debate itself where the government will try to monitor the work of management and such professional supervisory committees will mean monitoring the work responsiblely I would say, responsiblely I would say monitoring the government is happening and in that part of it we will then send a message not to run away from responsibility. Of course, I personally believe that that third law should not be, and that is the Law on the procedure of handing over power. Why? So here's today listening to the debate whether it came from the opposition or the position we heard. We have heard that even these professionals are not always responsible, that these professionals are also responsible by their work whether for Podravka, whether for another company where there were no politicians and ministers. Therefore, they too show how many of these gaps are. On the other hand, let's try to know some more facts. There's a difference between government and politics. Someone's for greater development, someone's not for greater development. Therefore, someone who selects members of the Supervisory Board may be those who will not essentially be turned to development, and this development will be answered by such experts to another government. However, we have very sensitive areas, and these are the economic prices of certain public services regardless of whether it is at state level or even more will be recognizable at the level of local self-government of the price of water, the price of garbage. And just part of the policy is trying to choose a profession that will in some way protect the so-called. the social policy of unrealistic prices, and yet contrary to the interests of companies. And in that, some governments differ whether it's local or national. Therefore, even though they were elected to the competition, it does not mean that by changing power, by a different political will, I would say in a different political opinion these people should not be a proposal for a shift. But simply, if they and their work, but also very clear policies that will be in line with the will of those who have received most independently of the city government or state conduct the will and policy options, it is evident that they can continue their work. Therefore, precisely because of these shortcomings and professional failures and because policy change means and change in property management policy it is evident that these people should at least keep an eye on the new government. It is simply unacceptable that those chosen to conduct the policy of owners, and this owner is a political one, is a political option. She's probably very different. And that's why I suggest that by the second reading, you really try to think again about the proposal for this, the amendments to the law, because I simply think that the supervisory committees are laying down and have to account for the authorities. And there's this biggest trap. I'm warning you again. In Croatia, the controversy began whether it was a political escape from responsibility? We must make it clear that although they will be professionals, the Government will be responsible for their work, control their work, and do very seriously work on the management of these controls. If so, then they are still responsible for the authorities who chose them and who entrusted them with their trust, which means that the third law is highly questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46508	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46509	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct an assumption that is not correct. A colleague, Linic, said, "When we see a politician's rating, we see that we are very unpopular." When we see Prime Minister's rating, who is a politician, and when we see the rating of the president of the Croatian Democratic Community, Mrs. Kosor, then we see politicians as popular. So, you shouldn't look at the bottom table but from the top, and I'm sorry there aren't any popular politicians out there who might be in line with the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46510	Thank you. On behalf of the motion minister, the esteemed Davor Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46511	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here we listened patiently to fellow workers until they were prevented from other obligations. I have to say the interesting fact that we've been thinking about the schedule of working hours since we have three laws of which one has two, and the other three, and the third four articles that the debate and the observations will be much shorter than what happened. We have provoked the belief that everyone will agree to a discussion that has gone far beyond the reach of these laws, and even in their imaginary reflections on other laws that will concern them, and therefore I am obliged to say a few things because we have heard both personal experiences and valuable courts about which the Government will not manifest. However, I am obliged to say one assessment that is very important, and I thank Mr Linic for actually giving me the beginning of the answer to this debate today. So, three laws, we said they were technical laws. The laws provided for the possibility of that policy that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has indicated, which was a policy that even in the leadership of state-owned or largely state-owned enterprises, the government of the Republic of Croatia would seek to fully depoliticalise the procedure and choose the most capable people who could work on the supervisory boards of these companies. It is never in the draft law that the Government has been guided to deprive political responsibilities for the management of these companies, it cannot do so from constitutional provisions to the policy it must implement amongst other things and to manage as owner of state-owned enterprises as it thinks or sees it to be most efficient, most logical and meaningful. So the idea of these laws was precisely to open up the possibility in all those other regulations, because as you know some laws under the position of officials to be members of some supervisory committees, we opened up the possibility to amend these laws in a way that in these fundamental laws that speak of these rights we said that, I would try to do so in a way that politicians are no longer members of these supervisory committees, but to open public tenders based on some of the criteria that will just be prescribed by a special law, and to try to find people who are able to accept the responsibilities of leadership and such companies. It was about something that I would really say in most of these discussions that has nothing but nothing technical or technical about these regulations, called for a change of the Penal Code, was also called for to change the Law on Commercial Society. I would not like to prepare, but just to remind you that at the last session at the end of the year there were major amendments and additions to the Law on Commercial Companies, but that there was no question of these possibilities of qualifications and other opportunities for the management of state-owned companies. These laws were, I repeat, aimed at implementing the government's policy that allows companies' supervisory boards, which are only individual members, not the whole body, to enter people through a public tender. The public tender will be held and in the end the Government will appoint these people by competition. For this we think first of all that we will gain transparency and depolitisation of all these places and probably respond to some of the criticisms that have so far been referred to the work of these companies. On the other hand, we think that it is as you said the European criterion that we have led to get the best of how many can be found to run these companies in the future. This does not mean nor can it mean that the government will give up, nor that it intended to give up political responsibility for the management of these companies and to fulfil its constitutional duties and tasks in the best possible way. I can't just say that all the questions, suggestions and suggestions will be put into the final text because there have been so many, and I believe that since some have missed the nomotechnical reach and the matter of this law, we certainly won't accept it, but we will consider all the remarks and we will be visible on the working bodies in the second reading that we have accepted from the proposal what the final text will look like, perhaps not even all three laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46512	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46513	We move to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, first reading, P.Z. Number 498. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials, second all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate, will be addressed to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's please get involved and vote on this conclusion. The result? The conclusion was accepted by most votes. 105 votes for, nothing abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46876	We move to the 4th item of the agenda, which is – - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings, with a final bill proposal, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 501 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Labour, Social Care and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, esteemed Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46877	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, very briefly related to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings. Therefore, the basic reason is full compliance with the acquis and the regulation of the European Union in a specific segment relating to the very definition of housing savings. Under the current law last amended in 2005, therefore housing savings can be a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. According to this proposal, it is not only a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, but every natural person who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, these amendments and additions propose the possibility of borrowing housing savings on the financial market, if the regulated resources are not sufficient to settle the commitments made under housing contracts. So far, the possibility has only been a sign of settlement of liabilities per housing loan and thus actually enables better management of the liquidity of the housing facilities themselves. We also have the additional need to comply with this law with the Credit Institutions Act and, of course, with the personal identification number. Another important thing I would say, that is, the proposal for an important amendment and addition in this law, and as regards the overall I would say a package of measures that the Government proposes for economic recovery and development, for one of the more important I think will be one of the following topics and points for discussion in the Assembly. But in this law we envisioned, i.e. the liberalisation of investment of housing savings in housing projects in a way that housing savings can lend contractors to housing projects in the Republic to meet needs, housing needs of housing savings. Of course, we had to limit that amount in accordance with the existing legislation in some way, and that is up to the level of the guaranteed capital of housing savings. We also held consulting and ine conversations with representatives of individual housing savings. You know there are 5 of them and they're of course, they agree with this proposal. The amount, when we translate this into the figures of that guarantee capital, moves towards the available data and up to a height of 500 million kuna. This law would have entered into force eight days since its publication in the People's Newspaper. Of course, only this alignment with EU legislation on the definition of housing saves go from the day of EU accession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46878	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the club representatives. On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46879	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Introductory only a few notes related to the state-encouraged housing savings. Namely, the Croatian system of state-encouraged housing includes 5 housing savings that are operating in order as part of banking groups. The consolidated household savings balance is 6.5 billion kuna. I'll say for comparisons that the balance sheet amount of housing savings represents approximately 1.8% of the balance sheet total of business banks. But one thing is far more interesting, and this is that approved loans from housing savings to citizens represent as much as 5.6% of the amount of housing loans granted by commercial banks, so we see that the credit is triple the amount of the balance sheet. Unfortunately, the Croatian housing savings system covers only 600 thousand active savings, which is only 14% of the Croatian population or almost 3 times less than in similar Central European countries. For example, in the Czech Republic, housing savings account for as much as 55% of the population. It is obvious that in Croatia not all the potentials of the state-encouraged housing system have been used in any way, so the question is clear why is this the case? The most important reason is certainly an premature reduction in the level of state incentive. I will remind myself in 2005, so only 6 years after the effective functioning of the system, the start of the effective functioning of the system, the height of the state incentive was reduced from only 25% to only 15%, or nominally it was from 1250 to 750 kuna. This problem has been further strengthened by the fact that from 2005 to 2008, business banks have offered very competitive conditions for granting housing loans, particularly low interest rates, so housing savings loans have actually become unattractive. But the recession creates a new situation. The current financial crisis strengthens the risks of banking housing primarily due to variable interest rates and foreign credit sources which, every day, are becoming more scarce and unreachable. Contrary to bank housing loans, housing savings are financed from domestic long-term savings at fixed interest rates, and this is indeed one important reason why encouraging domestic long-term savings should be one of the priorities of economic policy. On the other hand, Croatian construction, we all know, is on its knees, and escalating indifference has almost completely reduced the demand for apartments. In such conditions, it becomes particularly important to see that, by encouraging the savings of the average citizens of the countries through a system of fostered housing savings, it helps the property consolidation, and that is precisely the middle Croatian civil class. One word of this present time is the right time to turn the country towards housing savings. It is time to promote housing savings activities to make housing savings an important savings-credit product to help wake up the real estate market and maintain construction activities. In order to make housing savings more attractive, according to us, state incentives for housing savings should be increased. And that there are economic accounts to increase state incentives confirms that the contribution of the GDP housing system alone during 2008 was around 640 million kuna or 0.2%. In addition, almost 450 million kunas have been revenueed through various tax duties driven by the savings bank's activity. These revenues are 2 times the annual amount of net government incentives paid in 2008 amounting to 206 million kuna. So we can conclude that one unit of state incentives results in 3 units of added value and 2 units of tax revenue, and if these are not arguments to increase state incentives, then I don't really know what would happen. Although this legislative proposal is called a novel for economic recovery, unfortunately there are no major changes that would lead to a turning point in the state-driven housing savings. The only, and very modest contribution to economic recovery, in the new law is visible in opening up the possibility that housing savings other than housing savings can also be credited to contractors in housing projects. There is no increase in national incentives, and this means that there will be no significant increase in the number of housing savings, and thus neither the importance of housing savings at all. This legislative proposal is exclusively about harmonising with the EU acquis, where the most important change in the law represents a change in the definition of housing savings. In the negotiations on Chapter 4 on freedom of movement of capital, Croatia has committed to abolishing all those provisions which are discriminated against by other Member States and consequently should extend the definition of housing savings in such a way that, apart from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, any other natural person resident in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whose person the citizen is. Whether EU Member States or other countries. Such a provision of housing savings achieves full compliance of the Housing Savings Act with the provisions of Chapter 3. The Treaty on European Community or the commitments made by Croatia in the negotiating chapter on freedom of movement of capital shall be met. Clearly, such a provision of housing will be applied when Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. As regards the definition of housing savings, it should be stressed that housing savings and household credit users remain and units of local self-government therefore and municipalities and cities such as this has been the case so far, but provided that the funds are used to build apartments designed to address housing needs of citizens of weaker property status. In addition to this basic change, therefore the change in the definition of housing savings is changed and the legal design of housing savings is changed. In the future, housing savings will be able to be established exclusively as a stock company unlike the current law under which it could be established and as a limited liability company. The law, as the State Secretary also said, provides for further harmonisations with the Law on Credit Institutions which regulates the business of residential savings institutions as credit institutions, further with the family law that equidistant with the spouses and related to the possibility of infringing the rights of members of the housing savings family, and finally with the Law on the Personal Identification Number, as it will be used in the future to identify savings when filling out claims for the payment of state incentive funds, in the future, by using a personal identification number instead of the current unique number of citizens. Namely, identification is important for the reason that housing savings are entitled to state incentives only in one housing savings facility. The draft provides for some new jobs for housing savings, so the first new job is aimed at the already mentioned economic recovery of construction. Namely, housing savings will be allowed to lend other than housing savings to manufacturers in construction projects with a view to meeting more favourable conditions for addressing the housing needs of their housing savings. The possibility of lending is, of course, limited by the amount of the guaranteed capital of the housing savings facility itself. Another new job of housing savings is insurance representation, in which housing savings are equal to business banks. Therefore, given that it is in compliance with European Union regulations, the SDP Club will support this legislative proposal in the proposed text, but with the hope that the next draft of this law will result in a quality change in the status of state-driven housing savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46880	Thank you. Wesna Buterin's esteemed representative on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46881	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with a fellow colleague and fellow MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Housing Savings and State Encouragement of Housing Savings with the Final Proposal of the Law. The current law on housing savings through the state-owned fostering of housing savings is in force on 1 January 98th. Therefore, the Act is possible to establish housing savings, i.e. specialised credit institutions for residential financing. According to the current law, housing savings are a special purpose savings collected from domestic natural and legal persons for the purpose of resolving the housing issue, granting loans for housing to citizens of the Republic of Croatia and with the support of state incentives. If municipalities and cities use these funds to build apartments to address the housing issue of citizens of poorer assets, then they can also become savings users of loans. Amendments and additions to the 2005 Law allowed the granting of an inter-financing loan to reduce the savings period for all housing savings wishing to realise the loan. Therefore, it is no longer necessary to save two years to obtain the conditions for obtaining a housing loan, so credit can be obtained before the deadline expires. State budget savings are paid for by state incentives amounting to 15% of the stakes paid in housing savings. The maximum amount of state incentives that can be achieved during one calendar year is 750 kuna. It is important to stress that in Croatia there is a total of 5 housing savings in which around 600,000 citizens or 15% of the total population are involved in the housing savings system in Croatia. It is important to say, too, that the global financial crisis has again made it attractive to secure housing savings, and everyone involved in it for the purpose of raising housing credits, lately interesting fixed interest on this borrowing, as banks raise the price of such loans because they approve of them at variable interest rates. A fixed interest rate means that, for example, a person who started saving 5 years ago can already take credit for the interest she then signed and who moves up to 5% depending on the selected model of savings. Today, under today's conditions, this is actually an extremely attractive interest, given that housing credit prices in banks that use variable interest rates have risen above 6%. Of course, after 5 years of savings, any household savings can take savings, incentives, and interest without taking credit. Thus, in some housing savings banks in Croatia, an increased interest in housing savings began already in October of last year when almost 40% of contracts were concluded more than in the same month a year earlier. Some savings in 2008 contracted twice as many contracts as the year before. An even greater growth in the contract was expected because further savings in housing savings are one of the most profitable and safest investments, i.e. among the best and less harmful products on the Croatian Financial Market. In addition, despite the recent growth of interest on loans, our savings also provide more favourable housing loans. Amendments and additions to this Act relate first and foremost to the abolition of any provision discriminated against by other Member States of the European Union. The following proposed amendments to the provision defining housing savings in such a way that housing savings can be except for citizens of the Republic of Croatia and any natural person resident in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the amendments also liberalise the investment of housing savings that allow credit to be granted to contractors, i.e. builders for housing projects to meet the housing needs of housing savings, up to the amount of the guaranteed capital of the housing savings facility. It is also permitted to provide housing savings and to carry out insurance representation operations in the manner that banks are allowed to do so. The proposed amendments to this law open additional opportunities for the development and financing of housing. It is the club of the Croatian Democratic Community that supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Housing Savings and State Encouragement of Housing Savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46882	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46883	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We at the club of the Croatian People's Party support and will support this bill. A law that is on the one hand to comply with the legislation of the European Union, and on the other hand, our obligation to come with our entry into the European Union, which is that also foreign citizens have the right to foster savings and we are talking about one law that, according to us in the Croatian People's Party club, is definitely a law that has strengthened the system, a system of housing that definitely has a strong, anti-recession background, a system that the potential of systems that we do not use, because the fact that the housing system has a whole series of positive effects on the promotion of housing, and especially on a whole series of other industries that are linked to housing. In fact, it is known that 27 other different production branches are connected to the construction operation. And especially now at this recession time when construction operations are practically exhale, when the estimated loss of work is cca 50,000 employees in the construction operation compared to, which is a huge figure compared to 130 thousand total employees. And the fact that in the absence of public works that housing is one chance and one possibility to employ these capacities, to encourage with that segment bar in a small segment of economic growth, because when it starts with a system of encouraging housing, it is therefore a gross social product of 2%. Therefore, the value and importance of encouraging housing should not be specifically elaborated. It is evident, because when we talk about housing savings, that the relationship is invested according to the overall tax effects of one in two, that the relationship invested through stimulating savings to the overall economic effects is one in three and the fact that we have a designed system of stimulating housing, the fact that we have the Law on fostering housing, that it is one of the very rare systems in which the whole cycle is completely rounded. And what's most important is financial collateral practically from design to final buyer. One unique system that simply makes it impossible for everyone and the state to remain in any debt and system that has its own anti-corruption character, which is that there is no need for blue envelopes to be affected by anyone, and to fight for their right of collection after the work has been done. However, this incentive system, this POS system we've completely abandoned, it's practically dead, it's practically gone. For example, it is a settlement, a caricature from the settlement, and I can freely say the tragedy of how and how one good project can be destroyed is that settlement in Sesvedi. The government of the Republic of Croatia had complete project documentation, it had all the elements to launch the project 6, 7 years ago, 6 years ago. The Ministry sold this documentation to the city of Zagreb, project documentation and the city of Zagreb has created a very successful project that ultimately really works as a cartoon, which ultimately at the unit price of living space compared to the POS model costs 300 euros. And this is an example of how and in what way one good project, a good system kept an extremely useful system and in terms of employment of building facilities and all other industries that are connected to the building, a system that has good tax potential, simply not with concern, not competence, and what is worst because of possible personal interests literally destroyed. And I think that this potential we have in housing savings, because the fact that banks today only lend to customers of their clients' apartments. The fact that banks don't develop, are neither ready, have no interest in lending new clients, new projects, and one of the problems why and why our housing has fallen completely. And the consequence of all this is that at this point we have 10,000 apartments built and sold. The consequence of all this is the fact that we have blocked in those 10,000 apartments somewhere circus 8 billion kunas of frozen capital. The activation of the 8 billion state budget only through the VAT item receives a billion kuna. And we at the Croatian People's Party club believe that this system of stimulating savings, housing savings combined with the incentive housing system, and which is exclusively decided by the government, gives the opportunity to have this frozen capital, talk about the 8 billion circus in the built unsold apartments so that this capital can be activated, although new according to the model of encouraging housing with the incentive of the state, that it can open up a new chance and a new possibility of developing housing and, consequently, the employment of all these capacities that are in an extremely difficult situation today, in an unembarkable situation. In the context of, above all, personal responsibilities, in the context and calls on the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to each of us to make a contribution to proposing measures how and how to get out of the crisis we in the Croatian People's Party even a month ago have proposed a system that upgrades the POS model of encouraging housing, we called it POS plus and it is very simple. According to the model of incentives, by including the real estate agency, to start the sale of these built and unsold apartments, but according to the POS model, this means with the guaranteed upper price of the future buyer's participation in a certain percentage and the difference with the bank's loan but with the basis of the public procurement by the agency and whose interest certainly cannot be the one used by the banks today, certainly cannot be that but far lower. And in this way we create the possibility that if not the full amount but at least part of the amount of 8 billion kunas frozen capital in unsold apartments to go into office, to enter financial flows, we create the possibility that 1.2 billion kuna of unpaid VAT which is frozen in these unsold apartments to be the income of the state budget, we start the housing, and in this way for the citizens we have secured the purchase of the apartment under more favourable conditions, for investors the possibility of selling apartments, the return of capital and secured payment, for the state, for the investment of one kuna of income only from the sent VAT would be 1.3 kuna. In view of the real estate tax, this goes up to 1.4 kuna, preserving jobs, growing production, liquidity wages and contributions not to count now, but in the end we did a comparison based on a 70 square-square apartment. According to this model, the annuity for the final buyer according to the POS plus model would be 148 euros less or less than the current commercial conditions of our banks. The total difference after payment of the entire loan would be 55,000 euros for the apartment less than it is in the variety of commercial loans. And finally, the cost of the apartment would be 23% lower than it is currently according to the model that is now existing, which is based on commercial loans. Therefore, the whole series of advantages is known, known in the POS model. However, the second question is how much we really want to use this model for the greater good or how much we want to kill or prevent it for personal benefit. It's a different story, another thing. According to this model, there is definitely a possibility and a variant, a fully elaborated variant that I am now not liberating it but we in the Croatian People's Party have fully worked it out and we have proposed the Prime Ministers as a possible solution in this segment. Whether this model is going to be accepted or not, we're hoping that this economy support fund will too, these economic support measures are also on this trail we suggested one variant three months ago and I'm glad it's moving. And I like the very fact that the logic of the simplicity of the project has finally begun and been respected, the simplicity of the solution to the solution of a particular project. We hope at the club of the Croatian People's Party that this model POS plus will also be verified through concrete actions and actions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and about once again to return to this law that we are discussing, which is the amendments and additions to the House Savings Act. We at the Club of the Croatian People's Party support it but at the same time we call upon and call upon the Government of the Republic of Croatia that this potential together with the system of legal and system that has proved the success and positive side of the PO model through this other, should not be called POS plus, let it be called in any other way, but it is crucial that these 10,000 apartments, as built and unsold, be put into office and then all the positive effects resulting from it, and we hope that we will welcome that too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46884	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS club, distinguished representative Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46885	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The House Savings Act and the state incentive of housing savings came into force on 1 January 1998. It was adopted because of the need to develop a contract model for purpose savings and housing lending, and envisaged the establishment of specialised credit institutions for residential financing, etc. housing savings. Under housing, special purpose savings are meant to address citizens' housing needs by approving loans for the housing of Croatian citizens with the support of the state in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. With housing savings and the user of credit under current law, they can become Croatian citizens and municipalities and cities if they are used to build apartments to resolve the housing issue of citizens of poorer property. Since the Republic of Croatia has made a commitment in the process of accession negotiations with the European Union to bring its legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to abolish any provision that would put the rights of the Member States of the European Union, or their citizens, in an unfair position. In the negotiations in Chapter 4-Freedom of Capital Movement, the Republic of Croatia has committed to abolishing all provisions which are discriminated against by other Member States, which means freedom of movement of capital belongs to the so-called ‘Law movement’. four freedoms, these are goods, people, services and capital based on the functioning of the single European market, divided into three parts: freedom of movement of capital, payment systems and the prevention of money laundering. The following amendments to the existing law were made, so Article 6 amended the definition of housing savings so that it now includes every natural person who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, after Croatia enters the European Union, housing savings with Croatian citizens will be able to be any natural person residing in the Republic of Croatia, thus achieving full compliance with the provisions of the Treaty on European Community, Chapter 3 and meeting the obligations made by the Republic of Croatia in Chapter 4-Freedom of Capital Movement. In this way, an unequal situation has been removed between citizens of Member States who, under current regulations, could not have been housing savings and Croatian citizens. The subject-law is no-technically completed and in line with the Credit Institutions Act governing the business of residential savings banks as credit institutions. In addition, the paper is that the latest noveling of laws will allow residents to grant loans to contractors, i.e. builders who under the law governing construction can carry out construction activities for housing projects in the Republic of Croatia in order to meet the housing needs of housing savings, up to the total amount of guaranteed capital of housing savings. Words... and the liberalisation of laws are necessary and are in line with the obligations and efforts that the Republic of Croatia is making to bring its standards closer to those who rule the Member States of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We at the HSS Club welcome all positive steps and approve of the actions leading us to join the European peoples' communities with high standards, with the aim of achieving a better and more productive life. As noted earlier, these amendments to the law achieve full compliance with the provisions of the Treaty on European Community, Chapter 3 and fulfil the obligations made by the Republic of Croatia in Chapter 4 and that is the freedom of movement of capital which we consider necessary and justified. The HSS Club will support these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46886	Thank you. And now it's the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Our old Croatian proverb says "doing everything, saving even more" and then this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings, with the final proposal of the law, would in that sense also comment on today. Today, the cost of the apartment in the Republic of Croatia is an average of around 700 euros. What is the price of the apartment on the market we all know well. We know that in recent times, given the poor demand, it is clear that demand also conditioned the price, therefore poor demand and there has been a drop in the price of apartments, but still not as much as this difference between the performance price of the apartment and the sale price, and where this proposal has just come from the HNS club on stimulating savings and encouraging housing. Now, today this is the second, i.e. the first encouraging savings on the agenda, and it is also said that five housing savings have some 6.8 billion kuna, which is one small, small item of 1% compared to the balance sheet, but ultimately, when the balance sheet amounts that these savings place in the form of loans to their clients, this amounts to a total of 5 to 6% of the loans of the population in the Republic of Croatia, which is obviously significant in view of the underlying balance sheet assets. The state aids and encourages housing savings with 15% incentives based on only 5,000 invested funds from the housing savings facility. And I personally came here before Christmas and New Year's Eve as a member of a housing savings facility, but when these conditions are better promoted, I think 750 kunas as much as the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the state of Croatia gives for incentives, and before 25% in 2005, and they are not any significant means, especially because these funds are certainly returned to the Ministry of Finance through the sales of apartments tax. I'd say double back. That's why I say that 15% plus that it saves up the housing savings of those about 2% of the savings it gives me, which you believe me, after I've read the terms of that savings bank and after I've received the first report, I see that they eat the costs or the cost of the work and the action of that savings bank. Is it a small scam or not, plus opening an account that costs 200 kuna, etc. So I would say that, I'm not going to say that, it would be too harsh to say that it is also a small financial engineering, but there are also elements to look at it this way on the other hand, although given the recession and the accumulation of credit in commercial banks remains citizens for perhaps a more favourable solution to save in housing savings. The HDSB has tabled an amendment to this bill and this is also said to save and users under the provisions of this law can be municipalities and cities if they use these funds to build apartments to address housing issues of persons with reduced property. In the extension of this sentence, we've added, or if it's about buying or building apartments for humanitarian or humanitarian purposes. Also when I left Slavonski Brod yesterday, I had the opportunity to speak to the Association for the Treatment of Leukemia Children called in Slavonski Brod "Slap". This association "Slap", therefore, takes care of children who have been suffering from leukemia every month, so there are seven or eight children in Zagreb who suffer from leukemia for chemotherapy treatment. Each of them needs an escort, an escort is necessary and each of these parents here in Zagreb is able to know and wash. Can't a legal entity like Slavonski Brod City or another legal entity or several legal entities, so for these humanitarian purposes, buy an apartment or save it in a residential savings facility to buy an apartment for such a human need and a human purpose. Here is the amendment for which we ask for understanding from the State Secretary and Government of the Republic of Croatia because it really is about, I think there are representatives of cities here such as Požega and Dubrovnik who have solved such a thing, so by buying an apartment in Zagreb for these needs. Well, as some of them already have, and those who solved it, I think you can do it without any problems, even though this is P.Z.E. So, he's wearing P.Z.E. No. 501., wearing the "E" mark can be without a label on European standards, we can be better than European standards and some things can be fixed in our legislation or add something. Therefore, the HDSSB will accept this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements on Housing Savings and State Encouragement of Housing Savings with the Final Proposal of the Law, along with this one of ours, to say one little amendment that we have attached during this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46888	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The second is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The third in a row is Honorable Representative Jerko Roshin. He's got it. And here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46889	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the government, this often happens to me to touch a microphone. The draft law amending and supplementing the House Savings Act and the State Encouraging State Savings with the Final Proposal of the Law is certainly welcome and there is no particular reason why this law should be discussed in any critical sense at all. It is a matter of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. He added to the rights of who has the right to live savings. All that has been said so far to the performers who are there, the financing of the housing savings and all those who have stayed in Croatia, the residence in Croatia only when the residence is said from a legal point of view I do not know whether the residence is permanent, temporary, occasionally, whether there is any difference in this matter so that it could comment on what the residence means. However, in addition to harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, the real sense of housing savings is actually raised. We know in principle what they mean, I know what they're allowed to do. But there's a lot of data missing that we can talk about this, so we can talk about the meaning of housing savings. Namely, there are parallel two points of view, two concepts, two knowledge. One of them talks about how people can't get to the apartment so easily, that they have a lot of unsatisfactory needs of the living room, while at the same time saying that there are much more living space in Croatia than there are real needs, which means that some have more than one apartment, which means that others have a solution to their roof over their head to some other needs and demands, which means that they use other apartments for special occasions. Many call it a secund home, some call it a Hollywood apartment or so. But there are those who live in Zagreb all the time at a permanent address, in Split they have an occasional stay. There are those who live in Split at a permanent address, and occasionally have a stay in Zagreb. So, when we talk about housing savings, it should also definitely come to data once that I unfortunately failed to reach even when I was president of the government's council on the state's spatial order. How many electricity standards there are to make it possible to find out how many real living space there are. If housing problems were to come down to those who needed a roof solution, then their first apartment and living space, then many other things in the area of tourism could be dealt with differently. And I think this is at least a chance to talk about that problem if you don't get answers. In fact, there's no occasion in which we could put that topic on the table. Furthermore, the lack of a housing-related strategy as a separate document. We know that we use different instruments, so POS is also one of the categories of solution to the housing problem. We know that we used to have housing cooperatives that solved the housing problem of their cooperatives, practically saving through various companies that dealt with it. But the real problem of solving the housing problem, which refers practically to the price of a square meter to get someone to the apartment, has never been analysed so that lessons can be learned from it that would indicate how housing savings should go. If the price on the single apartment market costs, for example, between 2 and 3 thousand euros, and if the same quality of the apartment can be obtained by a thousand euros, or 917 as prescribed, as a limiting value, the question arises as to what is the difference. In any case, the difference is not in the profit of the one who builds, it cannot be that much difference, and much of that price difference relates to the price of the land. Therefore, in the structure of the price of the apartment, and as a possibility to reach the apartment, it is very important to compare land prices and the cost of building and the cost of accompanying costs so that the apartment can be completed and given to someone for use. I think that an analysis of all of this can also establish a more meaningful sense of housing savings, of directing savings in one particular direction or in any way or in which areas or areas. And here it has been shown that the law, in fact, this proposal to amend and supplement the law actually refers to the law of '98. It has been noted in Croatia that 14% of savings from 60% in European countries are also showing the rationality of housing savings. We are in the debate today, regardless of the board, but we have discussed the meaning of housing savings and let's say housing savings could be a better quality savings than any other kind of savings if there is someone who will use the savings rationally, who needs an apartment. If we think that we need to solve the problem of housing, allow as many people as possible to solve our housing issue, if we aim to encourage this housing savings, and we see that there is a great financial potential in this savings through these 5 reported in the savings document, it would probably be useful to lower interest on housing savings, to give a kind of incentive to banking, "National banks" or I don't know who is more specific about it, to lower interest on loans that are given for housing savings, as would be good and give greater incentive to those who are saving for this purpose, or to save for that purpose. One thing that applies to this law, as well as to many other laws that are here in the parliamentary procedure, is the language in which many cases are simply unacceptable, the regularity of the text being given, the hygiene of the text. What would you say is that in Dalmatia you say "fallinga", in Zagreb tipfeller, and in fact it's a typewriter, a writing error, or a lapus chalami from Latin. There is much here that should be corrected, because it is simply unacceptable to enter, to get a text in which such errors exist, that instead of writing from or vice versa, with an explanation in Article 15. It's simply not neat to read a scout instead of a performer, because it's like that home-made installation instead of a thunderbolt, or a statistical budget instead of a static budget, so I'm just pointing out, it's not the specificity of this law and this text, but in general those who give the texts to it would be good to keep a little on the language more accounts. And one word used here, which I absolutely understand what it means, but perhaps you could find a Croatian word that is different, because it is very clumsy and ugly, it sounds rough, it's called, says the identifier of the housing savings. It's so other people's effects, it doesn't work, it certainly doesn't have a Croatian root, it has a foreign root, but maybe you could find another word to show the one, pointed out the one that saves, instead of the word identifier. Article 31(2), paragraph 1, respectively, states that, in criminal measures in which the penalty is imposed, it will be punishable for the violation of the housing savings facility if it carries out housing savings operations and is not registered with the competent court. It can be punished by the one who does the job and is not registered, because if it's a housing savings bank, then it's registered, if it's not registered, it's not a residential savings bank. Do you understand me? So, one who deals with housing savings will be punished, and is not registered for it, not a housing savings bank that is not registered, because it cannot be a housing savings facility unless it is registered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46890	Thank you. It's time for the esteemed representative of Nevenka. Excuse me. We had one replica, the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46891	Dear colleague, you mentioned this in your discussion, and some colleagues mentioned in the debate and before you that housing savings is a good opportunity for young people to acquire the first apartment. From the personal experience and experience of many other generations of my generation to put it simply, however well thought it was, no matter how much interest you get on credit based on housing savings is really, or indeed most favourable, you simply do not think that after a time of two or five years you get a loan, I mean a large enough amount of money to buy an apartment. Living savings make sense if parents start saving for their children and it is a medium or long-term savings, but as much as it is a good project, it simply isn't, I say, it's not good and it's not effective for young people to get to the apartment. And it's actually tragic for any younger person to get to credit significantly easier by getting a commercial loan from any business bank, because most of them have credit lines for younger people I don't know of 35 years, 40 of which bank, but to go with housing savings. And secondly, as one of the proposals, you said that you should consider increasing the incentives to housing savings. I'll just remind you that a few years ago, the HDZ government has reduced that incentive from a thousand 500 to 750 kuna of maximum incentive a year, so I'm sorry you didn't react at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46892	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46893	I don't know if you've heard it, or if it didn't seem important to you when I was talking about a strategy to solve housing problems and collect all the data so that our attention could come to what's important, which is relevant for the solution to housing issues. In the world, but also in Europe, there are different experience on how to get rid of it, there are housing leases where I've been buying for 20 years. I've replicated my colleagues to you, so. There's a living liening where I can buy a simple apartment that I'll only use for 20 years, and then I get a write-off because that apartment will be able to get into, say, my son or so. But some of these years, too, have been solving housing problems lately in large dimensions, in a large number of squares, I don't know if it's housing savings or not? I don't know how much you know about your party Mr. Milanovic also solves these housing problems in a very significant extent. I don't know if it's housing savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46894	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46895	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Housing Savings and State Encouragement of Housing Savings harmonizes our legislation with the acquis of the EU, but also this is indeed one of the measures to encourage, i.e. the development of an economy of fostered housing. In fact, the need for amendments and additions to the existing House Savings Act and the state incentive of housing savings simply stems from the fact that Croatia wants to meet the conditions for EU entry, and this is not at all controversial, it must adapt its legislation to the acquis of the EU. In that sense, the provision of a law defining housing savings was needed to be amended in a way that housing savings could be except for citizens of the Republic of Croatia and any natural person who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, Croatia achieves additional compliance of the law with the provisions of the Treaty on European Community, Chapter 3 and fulfils the obligations it has made in Chapter 4 of the freedom of movement of capital. In Chapter 3 of the business of housing savings, Art. 10 new points 6 and 7 are added, which extend the tasks that housing savings can carry out, point 6 is to approve loans to contractors who under the law governing construction can carry out construction activities for housing projects in the Republic of Croatia in order to meet the housing needs of housing savings total up to the amount of the guaranteed capital of the housing savings facility. Under 7. carry out insurance representation tasks in accordance with the law governing insurance in the part relating to banks relating to the carrying out of insurance representation activities. The other amendments proposed in this law relate mainly to the nomotechnical treatment and harmonisation with the Credit Institutions Act governing the business of residential savings banks as a form of credit institutions. It should be recalled that this bill also showed five parliamentary committees. The Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and Budget and that none of the Parliament's professional working bodies had any objections but proposed that it be accepted in the proposed text and procedure. Here is only a reminder that the Committee on Finance and Budget noted that there is only 14% of the population in the Republic of Croatia, while in some EU countries the percentage is around 60%. Therefore, it is clear from the above that the system has not realised all its potential, that it has enough space to improve the system of stimulating housing savings, and it should be said that right now it is time to encourage housing savings because typical housing loans have shown that they are approved at variable interest rates, they are financed from foreign sources which are, of course, less and of course, encouraged by housing savings that are really the right way of residential construction and that interest is fixed and therefore domestic and long-term savings. On the basis of all this, I propose that this law be adopted by emergency procedure so that we can complete those commitments undertaken in the EU accession process in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46896	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46897	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. So the incentive savings system introduced in the Republic of Croatia since 1998 certainly has not obtained the results expected by the introduction of the law, which is primarily to address the housing issue of citizens of weaker property with the support of the state. It is evidence that about 14% of citizens in the Republic of Croatia have contracted housing savings while, for example, 55% of citizens in the Czech Republic have concluded these contracts and this system is considered extremely successful. The conclusion is that the designed system for saving and encouraging housing in our country is still not fully designed, i.e. not all the potential of the incentive housing system has been used. And there are certainly more reasons, and one of the basics was the premature and excessive reduction of incentives during 2005 when the incentive was reduced from 1250 kuna to 750 and the bigger the problem that was the application of this reduction went retroactively, so it also applied to those contracts that were concluded earlier. In addition, at the time when the incentive housing system was to become the main source of housing credit, I mean the period from 2005 to 2008, there were more favourable circumstances for banks, a global drop in interest rates, a large liquidity in the banking system, which enabled banks to easily access cheaper foreign sources and, as a result, had an expansion of bank housing loans under very favourable conditions. So the citizens turned to banks, and the growth of housing savings was stagnating. And that is why the system of encouraging housing savings has not played a more important role in encouraging the resolution of the housing problems of Croatian citizens of poorer property, and it has also failed to produce positive economic effects for the economy, the state budget and society as a whole. Thus, it follows that the possibility of encouraging lending savings is not fully used, and this is precisely why this amendment to the law allowing housing savings to be granted to contractors who, under the law governing construction, can carry out construction activities for housing projects in the Republic of Croatia, in order to meet the housing needs of housing savings, up to the total amount of the guaranteed capital of the housing savings plant. This allows apartments to be built for a pre-known buyer with a predictable source of funding. The incentive saving system, which was said to have to be abolished several years ago, should in any event, for all the reasons that I have cited and changed, but its change is not sufficient only for this amendment to the law which is now before us, but should certainly increase the amount of state incentives because it has shown that direct or indirect positive effects for the state were twice the net cost of State incentives. And that is why new solutions are needed, because under these conditions encouraging housing savings will not get the necessary, or good results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46898	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46899	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Well, housing savings are the most favourable form of savings, because other than 2% interest per year you get 15% of the state's incentives to pay up to 5,000 kuna a year. The housing savings can be used to improve Croatia's economic development, as they can live through it, i.e. to freeze the frozen construction sector, and also to return much more to the state through taxes than it has invested through incentives. According to all the analysis, multiple benefits can be achieved through housing, saving from the construction sector itself to the state itself, as I said, increasing tax revenues. Unfortunately, today in Croatia, what we have heard in a series of debates in the housing savings system is involved somewhere around 600,000 citizens, which is about 14% of the population, while here the Czech Republic is also mentioned as one positive example is 55% of the population is included in housing savings. It is also possible that after these amendments to the House Savings Act, which will be applied to the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, the number of housing savings will be increased, as at that time, except for Croatian citizens, and all of them, means every person resident in the Republic of Croatia, but that will be worth the same for the citizens of Croatia who will be found living in a Member State of the European Union, 5 housing savings companies currently working in Croatia have placed some 3.5 billion kuna of residential loans, and some 15 thousand have received a roof over their head, i.e. to resolve their basic existential issue, which is the issue of housing. In the end, I believe that citizens should be encouraged to live savings, and in this I think that they can make a significant contribution to the state, especially if it would increase the annual incentive from the current 15% to 25% or 30% as it was in 2005. This would certainly further strengthen the construction sector, meaning greater economic impact and the state would make multiple profits through tax collection, and would also be an example of how harsh capitalism is in terms of the social needs of citizens, because it only looks at its profits, that, however, in this harsh capitalism, it can take care of the basic social needs of citizens, and where you will be more fundamental than solving the meaning of basic existence, which is a housing issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46900	Thank you. Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46901	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The law allowing the establishment of specialised credit institutions, i.e. housing savings, came into force on 1 January '98. There are 5 housing savings in the Republic of Croatia today, today there have been talks about this and this is the first Wüstenrot, RBA, PBZ and HPB. According to our current law, housing savings are the collection of funds from domestic natural and legal persons to address citizens' housing needs, the approval of loans for housing to Croatian citizens with the financial support of the state in our country. The housing savings contract confirms the contractual amount and the mandatory life-saving period, depending on the savings period which cannot be less than two years. In accordance with the law, housing savings are guaranteed by a housing savings facility, and housing savings banks are subject to deposit insurance obligations with the State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation. The amount of savings paid to housing savings from the state budget will be paid to state incentives of 15% and to the paid role of housing savings and to a maximum of 5 thousand kuna in one year. The amendments and additions of the House Savings Act enabled the state to foster housing savings from 2005 to allow residents to grant loans to interfinance housing savings, as they had a significantly higher interest than in municipalities and cities who had been allowed pre-financing before the law was passed. The introduction of cross-financing reduced the period of savings for all housing savings that want to realise the credit, since it no longer takes savings of two years to acquire the right to housing credit, but housing savings have the possibility of obtaining a housing loan before the necessary period of housing savings is exhausted. However, the law regulates that housing savings can only be a Croatian citizen. In the negotiations in Chapter 4. – Freedom of movement of capital The Republic of Croatia has committed itself to abolishing all provisions which are discriminated against by other Member States. Following this regulation, a law defining housing savings needed to be amended in such a way that housing savings could be except for citizens of the Republic of Croatia and any natural person resident in the Republic of Croatia, thus achieving full compliance with the provisions of the Treaty of the European Community. This law also allows tenants to grant loans to contractors who can carry out construction activities for housing projects in the Republic of Croatia in order to meet the housing needs of housing savings and the total amount of guarantee capital of the housing savings facility. The housing savings are, in any case, a good thing in our country and, of course, in one synergy with the projects of encouraging housing certainly can contribute significantly to the speedy resolution of housing issues especially of younger people. Of course, if they have been involved as has been said before in this and parents where they have been able to help their children with it before. It is realistic to expect that somewhere there after the 20th year as it is and in the Western world, if they continue with this savings they will gain a certain good capital so that they can buy a residential space. At this point, we know the situation with the apartments, it was spoken here just now. However, this housing savings and measures of encouraging housing can also contribute significantly to this situation where we can freely tell it one moment in a large part of the dead construction activity. We know what kind of situation construction firms are in right now, and we need to safely use these potentials and reserves to make sure that this year because there isn't, the builders really don't have much time to wait to start the still needed housing in our country. The excess apartments currently on the market were also spoken here, but once again, the prices of the performers have already fallen quite recently, and it is unrealistic to expect that these prices will be able to be reduced indefinitely because, ultimately, these loans that the contractors took and the cost of costing these apartments will certainly not allow, but it is not certain that it is someone's interest that the complete construction operations of certain companies will go bankrupt because at that moment there is no benefit at all. So I'm saying this kind of savings must be good. Of course, after that he can and should not take the savings, he can take the commercial loans later, but in any case, it's a good sight to say young people can buy their square meters of living space in a easier way today. Of all things, this law must surely be supported and I will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46902	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. He's gone. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46903	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. It is impossible to start any subject that touches the economy without mentioning the crisis. So to point out that the consequences of the crisis are inconclusive, that they have reflected on all national economies and on the world economy as well. Economic history does not know that so few economic operators, so few investment fund entrepreneurs, investment bank brokers have caused so much damage and pain to a large number of people like this crisis. A relatively small number of greedy, irresponsible and boastful institutions and individuals have led to the outcry of almost the whole world and not just the individuals who have been harassed by this general crisis of abuse for their individual benefit. Many activities suffered, housing especially. In Croatia, the apartment also suffered, severely affected, the economic downturn is in all segments but in the apartment is expressed. Any framework legally which contributes to the recovery of economic activity should certainly be supported, as well as this. I absolutely support it because the apartment building is very important in the overall economic activity of the fall in the start-up of the apartment, and given the fact that we already heard from colleague Majdenić, that the number of savings in Croatia in housing savings is significantly lower and below the average of the European countries in Bulgaria 14%, for example in the Czech Republic 60%. One of the larger roles in the apartment is, however, wastes only on housing savings and on business banks. Still the most important factor for the launch of housing and housing activities are the conditions for crediting housing with business banks. And these conditions are unfavourable and extremely unfavourable. They are also unfavourable because of the high interest rates and not only because of these interest rates up to the drop in activity in the apartment, there are several other reasons that should be mentioned, and this is a decline in the purchasing power of the population, the high price of apartments and the elastic demand that responds to the price. Also, more and more unemployed but also poor performance quality of the cheapest apartments. This bill is one of the measures to promote economic activity and with the expansion of the base that savings are considered not only a citizen of the Republic of Croatia but also all natural persons who have residence in the Republic of Croatia and with the introduction of a new possibility that housing savings can be credited and housing will certainly contribute to the development of housing. But since it still depends to the greatest extent on the possibility of buying an apartment from the commercial interest rate banks is extremely unacceptable and it is the main reason for a weak credit placement in the apartment. And the reasons for high interest rates are higher but I would point out only two and that is an exceptional and high margin of business banks but also regulatory measures of the central bank which burden the commercial banks additionally. There is no rational and economic reason for the minimum reserve rate of business banks at the central bank for residential loans to be at the level of all other clients. In this situation, it is necessary to react and reduce that rate to 2% as much as it is necessary in the Member States of the European Union, while at the same time increasing the reserve rate to those credit ratings that do not contribute to the national economy as they are to business shares, to purchase business shares and to buy shares of other companies. There is no reason to increase these mandatory reserves to 30% by selective policy, but here for housing loans it is necessary to reduce to 2% which would give a large space to lower interest rates on housing loans. If anyone needs a loan, they need one who doesn't have a home. If anyone needs a loan, they need someone who wants to buy their own apartment. Here it is necessary, this law will certainly contribute to this, but there are both the necessary and wider measures and housing loans must have special treatment for both business banks and the government, and monetary policy. Such access by the bank, the central bank and the legislation will not only help a man as an individual. It will help the general good, help the economy, help start and increase economic activity, and also in this case the business banks will make relatively decent profits. It's high time the banks stopped being the place where you get credit when you prove you don't need a loan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46904	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46905	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. So, we are talking about an important law that regulates housing savings with the intention of addressing citizens' housing needs with the financial support of the state in Croatia. It is also a special purpose savings collected from domestic natural and legal persons by granting housing loans. The housing savings and the credit user can become Croatian citizens as well as municipalities and cities used by these funds to build apartments to resolve the housing issue for the citizens of the weaker property situation. Earlier in the debate, on behalf of the HDSSB club Mr. Boro Grubisic said he would and I did not want to take up time in the replica, but I will now say that the amendment to which he will refer to the promoter in Article 3, Mr Grubisic, I will also tell you the example of the city of Sibenik, which also found a model from budget funds in the purchase of space for, say, the Society of Sibenik and citizens in order to help with the very purpose of your amendment that you will refer to in relation to Article 3. A housing savings contract shall determine the contractual amount and the life savings obligation which cannot be shorter than two years and may conclude a housing loan contract after the period of savings. The amount of savings paid shall be paid by state incentives of 15% of the deposits paid, up to a maximum of 5 thousand kuna in one calendar year, i.e. the maximum amount of State incentive funds that can be generated during a calendar year of 750 kuna. Amendments and additions to the 2005 Housing Savings Act, we have also heard, allow residents to grant loans to interfinance housing savings. This model, i.e. that co-financing reduces savings time for all savings who want to realise the loan, so less than two years. With this law, Croatia fulfils its commitments, we have also heard the standards of joining the European Union. Another newspaper is the possibility that the savings banks will grant loans to meet the needs of housing savings up to the amount of the guaranteed capital of the housing savings facility. However, it must be pointed out that this law allows residents to grant loans, as we have also heard, to contractors who are authorised to deal with construction activities for housing to meet the housing needs of the savings up to the total amount of the guaranteed capital. By passing a new law, the state fulfils its important commitment to citizens by providing conditions for resolving housing issues. It will significantly influence housing and especially motivate young people and further strengthen them to address the housing issue when we know how important this is to the life issue. In neighbouring countries, more specifically in the north is wanted and the actual dimension has already been achieved to save friends of savings, to function as registers of mutual assistance and significantly affect housing. I will certainly support the adoption of this law, in which it will be united, which brings together the first and second readings and adoption of this law in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46906	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46907	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here's the last thing I want to say is thank you for the debate. We have heard many interesting remarks, comments, suggestions that the Government and the Ministry of Finance will certainly consider. We have also heard various research results that mainly come from the financial sector itself, therefore from housing savings, and of course there is a certain part and bias in terms of the overall effects of housing savings. There are undoubtedly certain positive effects, but we in the Ministry of Finance are absolutely considering complete therefore some small and wider aspects of housing savings. I am also glad that you have recognized in the debate the government's efforts to participate actively through this law, i.e. with one proactive measure, further encourages this economic activity, above all, in this sense, building activity. So what I said in the opening statement is that housing savings are allowed to participate or participate in investing their funds in construction ventures, of course for housing units intended for their committees or savings. This is certainly one of the measures that can be additionally positive and stimulating to the overall construction activity, and I can say immediately that this construction activity is certainly one of the activities covered by these economic recovery and development measures, i.e. financing models. One of them will, and I believe tomorrow morning, we'll discuss it. As far as we're concerned, here's an esteemed representative not currently in the assembly, but about his comment and the amendment tabled, so we think that as far as the amendment is concerned, I will, of course, repeat it and when it comes to voting on the law, but in fact what is proposed is already contained in some way in the text of the existing law itself and in fact by interpreting existing provisions, we can come to the conclusion of it even though, once again, the very notion of humanitarian purpose, since it is quite broadly creating and a certain legal doubt. Here's another thank you very much for your suggestions and comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46908	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46909	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. Number 501. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club. I would like Mr. Secretary of State Zdravko Maric to take note of the amendment of the HDSSB Representatives Club relating to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46910	The amendment is not accepted for reasons that there is simply no need since the purpose involved is already embedded in the very provision of this article, so it stands for "persons of weaker property". In addition, I think that it would be both nomotechnically or legally real and difficult to accept the amendment, given that it is an article that has not been amended at all by these amendments and amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46911	Thank you. Mr. Representative Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46912	Mr. Secretary of State, social and humanitarian cases are not the same. But since we avoid the difficult words as the President of the Parliament said and since our fellow citizen is giving up. I'm not asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46913	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of 108 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46914	We now need to move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on Privatisation of Croatian Electroprivrede d.d., emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 503 We'll wait a few minutes because the secretary of state is stuck in traffic here in Mesnička, so he'll be here any minute. Then we'll take 10 minutes off. The secretary of state has arrived, and he will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46916	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Law on the privatisation of Croatian electricity industry from "National Journals" No. 32 of 2002 was voted in the Croatian Parliament on 19 March 2002. It entered into force on 5 April 2002. The subject of the regulation of that law is the privatisation of Croatia's electroprivreda d.d., companies owned by the Republic of Croatia 100 per cent according to a model designed during the initial period of harmonisation of the legislative and institutional framework of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the European Union. However, in the period since 2002 when the Privatisation Act came into force, meaning the HEP Privatisation Act did not have any legal effects, or in accordance with the provisions of the said law on privatisation of Croatia's electricity industry was not launched. Only the launch of the privatisation process of Croatia's electricity industry has no impact on the conclusion of negotiations with the European Union, nor on the closure of chapters that bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. Organizational restructuring which we are obliged to implement under the third package The Energy Directive also does not cover the issue of ownership or requires privatisation. On 16 October 2009, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Energy Development Strategy by 2020, which is also in line with the European Union's energy policy. The main objectives of the strategy are competitiveness of the energy system, security of energy supply and sustainable development. The strategy also set out the role of countries which primarily relate to security of supply. The obligation of the State is therefore to ensure, throughout the territory, a quality and reliable supply of energy to the final consumer under the same conditions at competitive prices, while respecting the highest standards of environmental conservation. Nor does the strategy address the issue of ownership of individual energy entities. As the privatisation process of Croatia's electricity industry has not been initiated so far, it is estimated that in times of crisis and recession when the country's role in maintaining the energy system is particularly highlighted is stable, as well as in terms of supply, both in terms of supply and in terms of avoidance of price shocks, and because of the restructuring obligations arising from the third energy directive package. There is no justification at this time for the initiation of the privatisation process for Croatia's electricity industry. In addition, it is important to stress that some of the Regulations, some of the statements in the 2002 HEP Privatisation Act, could also not remain in force because of the fact that certain conflicts occur but in the part where the European Commission defines the rights in the chapter – Freedom of movement of goods and services. Namely, one of those problematic provisions is so called. a provision on a gold share which has not been set for a period of time and therefore is therefore proposed to put this law out of force. It is important to note that the provisions of the Privatisation Act in Article 13(5) oblige the privatisation of Croatia's electricity sector to be governed by a special law. And since the adoption of this law will not exist a specific legislative framework that regulates the issue of HEP privatisation, the same will not be possible. If there is a need for the privatisation of HEP in the future, it will be necessary to adopt a legal framework subsequently in accordance with the best European practice and interests of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 161(1), The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are adopted by an urgent procedure, meaning the laws which, among other things, comply with the regulations of the European Union, and with the arguments given to this material, are all the reasons for the urgent adoption of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46917	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zlatko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46918	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Electricity Privatisation Act came into force on 5 April 2002, and the model according to which HEP was to be privatised was based on the initial period of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. More than seven years have passed since then, and the privatisation process has not been initiated. During this not very short period, important changes have taken place in European energy regulation as well as in the energy sector itself. Another package of energy directives for electricity and gas markets has been introduced, and since 3 September 2009, the application of the third energy directive package has also started. The result is that these changes must also be reflected in the energy laws of the Republic of Croatia. The third package of liberalisation of electricity and gas markets, the Member States of the European Union are obliged to implement the adjustment of the rules within 18 months, i.e. until 3 March 2011. Croatia must do so until its entry into full membership of the European Union. These adjustments provide for the organisational restructuring of companies in terms of the separation of certain activities as well as a clear distinction of the assets of certain companies by stressing the organisational restructuring does not cover the issue of ownership and, more importantly, does not require privatisation. This autumn, the Croatian Parliament adopted a strategy for Croatia's energy development until 2020, which is in line with the European Union's energy policy. It is important to recall that the fundamental objectives and strategies are the competitiveness of the energy system, the security of energy supply and sustainable development, as well as the role of the state in ensuring supply. It should not be particularly stressed that without the security of energy it is impossible to organise daily life, let alone the development of an economy that needs to be taken into account at this time of crisis. We believe that by retaining ownership of HEP it will be possible to ensure this because, as it stands in the strategy, the state is obliged throughout Croatia to ensure a quality and reliable supply of energy to the final consumers, under the same conditions and competitive price, while respecting the highest standards of environmental protection. Since the launch of the HEP privatisation process does not affect the completion of negotiations with the European Union, and the same has not been launched so far, we believe that the government has correctly assessed that the recession is not justified or initiated at this time. In view of all the problems currently being plagued by the economy, but also by citizens who also face the consequences of the crisis, the role of the state in maintaining the stability of the energy system is extremely important, not only for the security of supply, but also for preventing sudden increases in energy prices, but also for the obligations arising from the said third energy directive package relating to the restructuring of the system. Such a decision will not affect the competitiveness of the energy sector, nor the energy sector as a whole. As the strategy encourages the arrival of new entities in the energy market, and all interested investors are welcome to invest in the construction of new energy facilities, in... Sustainable energy development, development envisions a strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is, among other things, already made possible by the regulatory framework, since the energy sector has also established market mechanisms, and therefore we support the adoption of this law which we are convinced will ensure a stable supply of energy to the population, as well as economic operators, which is one of the preconditions for the stability and business of the entire state. Therefore, the Croatian Peasants' Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46919	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46920	Thank you very much. We at the Croatian People's Party club as well, and I believe all other clubs will support this bill on the termination of the Law on Privatisation of Croatian Electroprivreda. The fact is that in 2002, as often with some of our decisions, we try to find justification, find it in one of the European directives, in this case, the European Directive is conditional on us, and it does not insist that in such a procedure that was adopted in 2002 and pure by, given the time gap from 2002 to today, that nothing has been done under that law, I consider the sovereignty of our country as an example of INA. I think it's a good thing she didn't do anything. However, according to the criteria of efficiency of management of Croatian electricity, especially in the light of these recent developments, recorded damages and in the balance sheet of this country, all these years, in HEP itself as an economic operator, all those unplanned objects, and I also consider that I do not have the pity that this law did not apply. Therefore, according to one criterion, it is good, on the other hand, it is bad. But the fact is that the current state or existing state in our energy is a state that does not meet our needs. The fact is that energy is one of our biggest consumers, we depend on imports. And the fact, and this is also through the discussion of the strategy, the energy strategy very clearly said that this strategy does not sustain on one hand our need, in an efficient way, it balances it as a need, but it does not sustain it in an efficient way, as well as our potentials and, above all, natural potentials, where renewable energy sources are entirely or completely underestimated as potential, and the energy facilities that are planned to build this strategy are questionable physiology and certainly in time before us, this strategy, and soon before us, this strategy will, I am convinced, because simply by nature and style of events will necessarily change it. And I believe that some new strategy, that some new government will propose a strategy appropriate to our needs, and in any case towards using our potential, because energy efficiency itself is completely neglected, and the fact that every responsible state, and in many segments, this and Europe are their own energy consumption increase, compensates for energy efficiency, means not by building new buildings in any case any nuclear power plants, thermopower plants, but by the efficiency of the existing system. And on the other hand, using one of the more significant uses of renewable energy that uses its potential on the one hand, and on the other hand, which is particularly important and important, and this is very little to say about, and this is the development of industry for the production of equipment for the use of renewable energy sources. I think we as a state here have terrible potentials. In the recent past we used to produce turbines, we used to produce generators, we used to give complete... when we're talking about hydroenergy facilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've got a construction operation, but it's all lost in time. Today, we depend heavily on exports, imports, and I am convinced that this government or some other more responsible government will recognise these potentials, and use the potentials, on the one hand, in energy terms, and on the other hand, in the development of the economy they will produce, which should be produced by electricity production equipment. Here, at the end of the Croatian People's Party Club, I repeat, will support this proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the privatisation of Croatia's electricity sector. Noting that according to the State's sovereignty criteria, nothing has been done under that law so far, but by efficiency criteria, I think damage has been done. In any case, the time before us gives us one new opportunity, especially to energy and this kind of conditionally given by a formal legislative proposal, I think that if we don't use our own potential that all the effort simply doesn't make sense and remains at the level of form.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46921	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46922	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here are a few words on the proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Privatisation of Croatia's Electricity on behalf of the HDZ Club. Just a few months ago, it was a very current political topic in the Republic of Croatia. Privatization of HEP yes or no? Who's in, who's against? And thank God we have come to a clear political position that is formulated by this proposal of the Law on the termination of the law on the privatisation of HEP and thus all the imaginations and speculations of individuals, the media ends. In the case of a Member The law on privatisation of legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia states among other things: "Privatisation of legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia and in particular INE, HEP, HRT, etc., not to list further, shall be governed by special law in accordance with Article. 13." The Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Privatisation of Croatia's Elektroprivred on 25 March 2002. A few words about that law. It was the law, we can say today from this time distance, which was very restrictive, but we can also say some positive aspects because it prevented the privatisation of HEP in a way that would be long-term unacceptable for the Croatian state, for Croatian citizens for the security and stability of the energy system in the Republic of Croatia and for the energy future of the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, the law states a few items that I believe may be possible for us to point out. The privatisation of HEP will take place without compensation 7% of the shares to Croatian defenders and members of their family, by selling up to 7% of the shares to employees and former employees of HEP, by selling at least 15% of the shares in the public offering procedure according to the regulations, by selling the rest of the shares in accordance with market opportunities on the capital market based on a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, the Republic of Croatia stands state ownership over 51% of HEP shares. What may have been a little unusual in this law refers to an article. 9. where it says: "The government of the Republic of Croatia will periodically and at least three months will report to the Croatian Parliament on the course of the privatisation of HEP." Fortunately, it was not necessary, but it is not understandable why it is in Article 2(2). 9. put it this way: "Reporting from the preceding paragraph, i.e. The Croatian Parliament's report on the privatisation of HEP will be considered a state secret." It's a very strange decision. Here's a few words at the end about the bill. It's been said more than once, and I'll say it again. Since the HEP privatisation process has not been launched, this is a special topic why this has not happened, what are the reasons, what are the problems in the electricity market in the Republic of Croatia? In the internal structural problems of HEP, etc.? It is a very interesting and attractive subject that requires perhaps a wider debate than this moment is appropriate. It is estimated that during the period of the economic crisis and recession, when the country's role in keeping the energy system stable is particularly highlighted both in terms of supply and in terms of avoidance of price shocks and in view of the restructuring obligations arising from the third energy directive package at this point, it is not justified to initiate the privatisation procedure. The role of the state is certainly important, from these aspects that are highlighted here. The stability of the energy system, avoiding price shocks, the role of the state is important, but let's not overestimate the state's ability to manage energy security and energy future in the Republic of Croatia in the way that Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy expect it as a whole. It is proposed that this law prescribe the termination of the law, which would regulate the privatisation process of HEP. Such a decision will not affect the competitiveness of the electricity sector or the energy sector as a whole. Given that the strategy encourages the arrival of new participants in the energy market and calls on all interested investors to invest in the construction of new energy facilities provided that the characteristics of sustainable energy development of the prescribed strategy are maintained. A very strange formulation that might require a more detailed discussion, but we're going to skip them this moment. The regulatory framework has already been fully possible today and the establishment and operation of market mechanisms in the energy sector in operation. The final club of the HDZ supports the decision defined by Article 1(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. On the 1st day of entry into force of this law, the Law on the privatisation of electricity shall cease to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46923	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, she's a respected representative of Mirela Holly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46924	Thank you, Vice President. I, like my predecessors, will talk very briefly about this law, given that the law itself is very short and elemental, however, covers an extremely important problem. I have to admit that I was somewhat surprised by the debate of a respected HDZ colleague who looked somewhat critically towards a recently adopted strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia. I've got a little different attitudes about it than he does, but I'll look back on that later. In any case, I welcome the government's decision to give up the privatisation of HEP at this time, and given that the privatisation of the electricity sectors has shown quite a bad effect in many countries of transition, i.e. in EU countries, primarily through an increase in electricity prices, but unfortunately there has been no increase in service quality. But I cannot ask the question, in fact, why this law is passed, because if the government is firm in its decision not to privatise HEP at this point, then it is not necessary to pass such a law. And since this explanation discusses that certain changes have occurred in energy regulation in the meantime, so that a second energy directive package is prescribed, that there is already a third energy directive package, which will ultimately result in changes to the energy laws of the Republic of Croatia, so that at this point it is more logical to go into actual changes to these energy laws and to comply with this second and third energy directives which are to a certain extent liberalising the electricity and gas market. I believe that this decision or the adoption of a special law repealing the Law on the privatisation of Croatia's electricity industry can read a certain weakness of the government, I would call it this way, because it can be concluded that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not trust itself and that it will remain persistent in deciding not to privatise HEP at the moment, which means that there are certain forces that are interested in the privatisation of HEP at this point, which I think would be extremely bad, which is why the government is empowering in that decision by adopting this bill, which I assume that all clubs of MPs and MPs will support. The Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in the autumn of 9th or 10th month, already mentioned in this document, claims that the strategy has laid down the role of a country which primarily refers to security of supply and that the strategy's objectives are the competitiveness of the energy sector, energy security and sustainable development. I think we would like to talk about the direction of the implementation of any of these objectives in the strategy document itself, and given that the circumstances have changed dramatically from those in which the energy strategy is written, where, in the very text of the strategy, there is an expected GDP growth of about 5%, and that we have, for a long time, the exact opposite and the decline of GDP, is one of the very important reasons why the Government of the Republic of Croatia should consider, if nothing else then, changing the document of the energy strategy, and by paying insufficient attention to renewable energy sources in its part and not going to make maximum use of the potential of renewable energy sources in the Republic of Croatia, and, in addition, not enough attention and energy efficiency. And Croatia is known to have twice the bad results in energy efficiency compared to other European Union countries, and this should make extremely significant positive changes. The strategy calls for the financing of new power plants with the help of private investment and private funds, which certainly requires new arrangements for relations on the electricity market, and today's situation is not good at all, and the rules are quite bad and bureaucratise excessively, making any kind of investment particularly difficult in these renewable energy sources, and that should make significant steps. And I suppose that these rules are not fully in line with what is in line with the European Union's policy in this respect, given that the European Union is paying extremely much attention to renewable energy sources and energy efficiency projects. Here's what would have happened in a short time. I will support this bill with certain reserves, because I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should not have gone to the adoption of the law itself, i.e. in this way it actually wanted to achieve its position in relation to some of the interests of certain lobbys in the privatisation of HEP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46925	Thank you. Dear Representative Davor Bernardić. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then it is the honourable representative Dragan Kovacevic. He's got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46926	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with an associate. In fact, the question arises whether the law on the privatisation of Croatia's electricity industry should have been passed in the first place. The explanation for its adoption is the period of harmonisation of the legislation and the institutional framework of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. Finally, our negotiators and those responsible in this negotiation process simply misread the European Union directives, i.e. that the liberalisation that was probably mentioned in these negotiations was pre-arranged and it turns out that we are actually running ahead of the ore in the privatisation of this part of the energy sector. In fact, a few months ago as the Committee on Economy, we were kind of pleased to receive the Minister of Economy of Slovakia, and we were just discussing the energy sector and the privatisation of the energy sector in Slovakia. And what we had the opportunity to hear where the Minister of Economy of Slovakia very critically spoke about what happened with them, we had the opportunity to actually hear and see that the privatisation of the energy sector was done in a pro-liberal, uncontrollable way, which eventually ended up with the fact that energy sector owners and energy companies located in some other Western countries are charging the same energy much lower in their countries, so it delivers much lower prices than it is in Slovakia. The Slovaks privatised 50% of these energy companies but handed over all management rights to foreigners, and then there was this illogicality, so that their citizens, their economies, paid more and the price of electricity and other energy products than in their home countries or countries where the new owners of the energy sector in Slovakia are based. So these are the experiences, this is what we could see in the example of one, we can speak in recent years of a very advanced country that is known in the European Union especially among the transition countries of these new ten countries at a very high rate of GDP growth but with a great delay in its energy sector. We know that the Republic of Croatia is energy-dependent, that almost 50% of the energy supply is imported and that it is absolutely important for us to in the future and given the importance of energy for the overall economic development, given that, without independence, it is very difficult to understand future economic development and that we actually had prior to this financial crisis, we had signs of crises that were conditioned above all by increasing energy prices. We also know what impact this had on the economic inputs, what impact this had on the costs of business and on the final products. We also had that situation, unfortunately, and with gas where we saw what energy addiction means when only the conflict between the two countries can be reflected as a result of us who are dependent on such sources. Therefore, it is good that this law ceases to apply, that it is abolished and that we are actually trying clearly with maximum rationalisation and maximum good business plans to design this energy sector on our own, so above all, Croatia's electricity industry and that in some way in the future we think that energy is increasingly important, the economy will also be more and more economic development depending on it and that it is important to have instruments and ownership and in some way a system of governance over that energy sector in domestic hands or that it is within national frameworks. Therefore, I support this Law on the termination of the Law on the Privileges of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46927	Thank you. And finally, distinguished representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46928	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, first of all, I want to say that I will support this bill although I ask the question why it is actually being brought and why it is being adopted by an emergency procedure. This is a question already asked by colleagues and fellow MPs because it is obvious that it was not necessary to bring it unless or has no intention to pass a new law on the one hand or if it really does not want to cool down some who are pressured to go into the privatisation of HEP, which obviously would not have ended well. But this is exactly the opportunity to talk about certain problems related to HEP, the position of HEP and expectations of Croatia's electricity economy of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So what are the expectations above all? First, it's also the reliability of the supply of electricity. I would really like to see somewhere and parallel indicators and moving through the year as much as there have actually been blackouts in the supply of electricity by the consumer in the Republic of Croatia and how we are compared to other European countries. On the other hand, it would also be interesting to know how much of the production price of our HEP in Croatia and how much it is compared to other countries, but also how many employees we have in HEP according to the produced gigawatt hour of electricity and what we are compared to others. But regardless of the HEP privatisation process itself and its delay in supporting it, the question arises at this moment and why no competition has emerged in Croatia, serious competition in the case of electricity production which we as a state should not defend because it is precisely one segment on the one hand of new investments in the Republic of Croatia, on the other hand, the emergence of new sources of electricity, increasing competitiveness, increasing and reliability of supply, reducing dependence on imports and other essential effects. So this is another segment that has virtually moved behind this effect of practically total management of the entire electricity sector through HEP, which is something that the state still needs to regulate and for which certain decisions should also be made to increase the level of competitiveness and also increase the level of electricity supply in Croatia. Finally, the question arises as to why the Government does not significantly encourage energy efficiency primarily in its own portfolio because there is an extremely large space for new employment on the one hand, but on the other hand, practically for new projects that would be financed themselves through the savings achieved in electricity consumption. The opportunity to mention this is that in Croatia there are also phenomena that are more true regarding INA than HEP, that practically exist in certain places of their own energy sources which are not used because they are made more practically on imports of Russian gas than on the use of their own, specifically here are thermal sources, which is unacceptable. Finally, I would just like to say that, with the support of this law, which therefore gives up the existing HEP Privatisation Act that I will support, I hope that more attention will be paid in the time ahead of us and energy efficiency, as well as competition in the field of electricity production in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46929	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. That's what we're done with today's session. Tomorrow we start at 9.30 p.m. with the 6th agenda, and this is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee Fund for Economic Recovery and Development. Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-03-0.u46930	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Privatisation of Croatia's Elektroprivred. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 503. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Privatisation of Croatian Electroprivreda d.d. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most 107 votes for, 1 abstention, nothing against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue with our 16th session and announced agenda point - Final proposal of the Law on the Guarantee Fund for Economic Recovery and Development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 505 The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary Mr. Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
