ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54027	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Madam Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System has established a proposal for the establishment of a Draft Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I shall present an earlier report from the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution which took place at its 49th and 50th session held on 18 and 24 May 2010, on the basis of my competence as referred to in Article 57(1) of subparagraph 4. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which are prescribed that in the procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee prepares proposals for relevant acts to hold a debate on a proposal for the establishment of a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. At the beginning of the 49th session, the Committee president reminded the Committee members that on 30 April 2010, the Croatian Parliament decided on the accession of the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which established the scope of the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, to submit a proposal to the Croatian Assembly for the establishment of a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Constitution to access the second phase of constitutional changes. Following this, a proposal was drawn up for the establishment of a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which, in the most part, is based on the harmonised provisions of the two draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, the Committee found that full agreement was reached with regard to Article 1. Proposal for a source base, Article 2. 17 and 18. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. Armed Forces, Article 4. European arrest warrant, Article 5. Depreciation of war crimes and crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation, Article 8. Croatian National Bank, Article 9. The National Audit Office, Articles 10 and 11 of the Terminological Coordination with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Article 13 of nomotechnical harmonisation due to the majority required for the decision on the crossing or operation of the Armed Forces across the borders of the Republic of Croatia, Articles 14 and 26 relating to the referendum, Article 15 of the National Budget, Article 16. The Ombudsman shall, Article 19 of the judicial duty, Article 20 of the Judicial Immunity, Article 21 of the Resistance of the Jurisdiction, Article 22. State Judicial Council, Article 23. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. Those provisions of the proposal for the establishment of a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with certain nomotechnical and explicit improvements resulting from the debate, have been accepted unanimously. In this context, the Committee found that the initiative of the Ombudsman was to amend Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was accepted in full as proposed by the Ombudsman with a proposal that the Institute of Immunity be extended to other representatives of the Croatian Parliament for the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In the debate, the Committee found that the provision proposing an amendment to Article 38 was an amendment. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, whose right to access information becomes a constitutional right with regard to restrictions on that right, must be aligned with the provision of Article 16(2). The Constitution, as well as international documents, and in particular the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents. Namely, civil society associations which have initiated the amendment of those provisions, as the only criterion for the restriction of access to information, have proposed a criterion of secrecy, while the Convention sets out a significantly wider circle of possible restrictions that must be prescribed by law, national security, defence, international relations, public security, prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences, disciplinary proceedings, inspection, control and supervision by public authorities, privacy and other legitimate and private interests, commercial and other economic interests, monetary and economic policy of the currency exchange rate of the state, equilateral as judicial proceedings and the effectiveness of the judiciary, the environment, discussion within the public bodies of a case. The minority of the board members expressed opposition to the proposed provision, holding that the right to access information can only be limited with regard to classified data, these classified data, and the provision of Article 6 of the proposal to establish a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the right to access information accepted by the majority of votes. The majority of votes were adopted by the provision of Article 12 of the proposal to determine the draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which proposed to amend the provisions of Article 65. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which refers to the obligation and freeness of education. The Committee found that no agreement was reached in all previous discussions on the content of that provision and proposed the provision in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the first phase of constitutional changes. The debate noted that the proposed provision stipulates that education is available to everyone under equal conditions in accordance with its abilities, and general education is mandatory and free of charge to allow further regulation of this area by law in such a way that general compulsory education from the level of primary school is extended to the secondary school level, which will enable the Republic of Croatia to equalise with the European Union's countries as regards educational standards. The debate also stressed that the proposed change will not lead to a change in the existing structure of institutions that implement primary and secondary education. The proposed provision for the amendment of Article 65 has not been adopted by the minority members of the Committee. The Constitution, holding that the provision should contain the obligation and the freeness of education until the first call is obtained. However, it was noted in the debate that such a provision would lead to the unequal position of students attending high school and vocational school students in a way that high school students should continue their education at the level of professional or university studies in order to gain first knowledge. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has also established the proposal that, with the previously agreed provision on the necessary majority to elect a constitutional judge, a provision introducing a constitutional mechanism which, given the newly proposed two-thirds majority of votes necessary for the selection of constitutional judges, is necessary to ensure the regular functioning of the court in full. In this respect, it is proposed that the constitutional judge's term of office be extended until the new judge's office in case the new judge has not been elected and has not taken office. During the debate, the chairman of the committee informed the committee that the above-mentioned amendment was initiated by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and that the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe had adopted a standard to ensure the stability of the institution should provide for the possibility that the term of office of the Constitutional Court should be extended until the entry into office of a new judge in which the Commission calls for constitutional solutions in certain countries. Few members of the board expressed opposition to such a provision, holding it to allow the possible passivity of Parliament or the inability to reach an agreement on the highest quality candidate to unjustly extend the mandate of a single judge of the Constitutional Court. Provision of Article 24 of the Proposal for a Draft Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, proposing an amendment to Article 125(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The constitution was accepted by most votes. The majority of votes were also adopted by the provisions of Article 27 of the proposal to lay down draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, introducing a new Chapter 7a, Articles 141a to 141.b of the European Union. The minority of the members of the committee expressed opposition to the proposed provision, in keeping with the provisions of Article 141.b, holding that the Constitution must prescribe the necessary majority, and the procedure for the adoption of the law on the control of the Croatian Parliament over the functioning of the Government in the institutions of the European Union. Following the debate on certain provisions, the Committee President informed the members of the Committee of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of the proposal for draft amendments to Article 128(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The existing provision of Article 128(4), which provides that the Constitutional Court, by deciding on constitutional action against individual decisions of the national authorities, the bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the legal persons with public authority, is to be subject to human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as to the rights of local and regional (regional) self-government guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that a limited jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court is essential. In this way, the protection of individual human rights and fundamental freedoms is reduced to constitutional supervision of formal individual legal acts, and injured persons are also addressed to the European Court of Human Rights under the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Constitutional Court therefore proposes to amend that provision in the sense that the Constitutional Court protects fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, international contracts which are part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and the general rules of international law. In this regard, the Committee unanimously adopted a conclusion proposing to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that, in accordance with Article 142. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall submit an amendment to the proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which would propose an amendment to Article 128(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. After the debate was held, and in connection with the implementation of the Committee's conclusion with the 48th session, which the Committee has committed to discuss on the occasion of a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it will discuss all the proposals in relation to Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee president informed members that it is likely to reach a political agreement on Article 45. The Constitution or vote of Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, the Committee concluded that it would stop the discussion of the proposals for an amendment to Article 45. The Constitution until the results of the political agreement mentioned above. At the beginning of the 50th session, the Committee President reminded members that an agreement was reached on 21 May on Article 45. The Constitution in a way that Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia will vote in the diplomatic consular offices of the Republic of Croatia and that three MPs will be elected to the Croatian Parliament. It is therefore possible for the Committee to establish the text of the amendment to Article 45. The Constitution and the possible manipulation of the article has been proposed. The Committee found that the provision proposed the following principle: Croatian citizens of 18 years of age, voters, have general and equal voting rights in elections for the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia and the European Parliament and in the decision-making process in accordance with the law. In elections for the Croatian Parliament, voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia have the right to choose three MPs in accordance with the law. In the elections for the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia and the European Parliament, and in the decision-making process in the state referendum, the electoral right is exercised in the direct elections by secret vote, with voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia exercising their right to vote at polling stations in diplomatic consular offices of the Republic of Croatia in the foreign country in which they reside. In the elections for the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia and the European Parliament, and in the decision-making process in the state referendum, the exercise of the electoral rights of the Republic of Croatia also ensures to its citizens resident in the Republic of Croatia who, at the time of the elections, are located outside its borders so that they can vote in diplomatic consular offices of the Republic of Croatia in a foreign country in which they are located or otherwise established by law. The debate on the proposed provision also raised the question whether Article 45 of the European Union's active and passive voting rights should be laid down in elections for the European Parliament, which are resident in the Republic of Croatia or in that matter, by law. The question has also been raised regarding the vote of Croatian citizens who, except in the Republic of Croatia, have their residence in another country in the sense that the constitutional provision should determine the obligation of a single and exclusive residence. In connection with the said committee, the Commission unanimously established the provision of Article 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Proposal for a draft in the text as proposed, with all the issues mentioned under discussion under discussion in the meeting of the Croatian Parliament being discussed. The Committee also did not discuss again the articles of the Proposal for laying down draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which were adopted by the majority of votes at the 49th session of the Committee, holding that these provisions could also be discussed again in the next phase of constitutional changes. After hearing on the basis of point 2. Decisions on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the provisions of Article 57(1) of subparagraph 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system were unanimous with 11 votes to determine and table a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution. This draft amendment of the Constitution set up by the Committee and in its explanation has important elements that are necessary to understand the entire course of things so far in working on constitutional changes. Namely, the decision to join the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which the Croatian Parliament adopted at the 17th session of 30 April 2010 decided to approach the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to the Proposal for a Decision on Accession of the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is on the basis of Article 142. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 1 October 2009 and by the Proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is based on Article 142. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was submitted by representatives in the Croatian Parliament on 16 October 2009 and, firstly, by adding the original grounds in such a way as to add to the existing national minorities the following national minorities: Bosniaks, Slovenians, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Russians, Bulgarians, Poles, Roma, Romanians, Turks, Vlasi and Albanians. Second, the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia concerning the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in the section relating to Article 9(2) thereof. European arrest warrant, Article 53 Croatian National Bank, introducing a new article 53a. State Audit Office, Article 5(2), Article 117(3), 118(1). Sources of the right, Article 120 of the judicial duty, Article 121(3) of the judicial immunity, Article 122(2) of the sustainability of the judicial duty, Article 123. State Judicial Council, Article 124. State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Council. Article 132 right to local and regional (regional) self-government. Articles 141 and 86 of the referendum and the introduction of a new chapter 7a. The European Union, with articles and titles above them, reads: "141a. Legal basis of membership and transfer of constitutional powers. 141b. Participation in the institutions of the European Union. 141c. European Union law. 141d. The right of citizens of the European Union." Third, by supplementing Article 31, by adding a new Article 4, which prescribes the non-depreciation of war profits and crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation, amendments and additions to Article 7. Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, Article 38 Rights of access to information, Article 65 of the obligation and freeness of education. Article 90 of the adoption of the State budget. Article 92 of the Advocate General. Article 125 selection of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. And a fourth. By prescribing the obligations and the deadline for the adoption of the Constitutional Act for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the entry into force of the amendments to the Constitution of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia described the scope of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the majority of part of the provisions agreed, the proposal for a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and a group of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and discussed at the session of the Parliament in October 2009. After the debate was held and in order to find the best solutions of the proposals mentioned, the Croatian Parliament established a parity working group that sought to find common solutions and formulate a joint agreed draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, taking into account the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the proposal of the Group of Representatives as authorised applicants. Although the working group failed to establish a common draft amendment to the Constitution, a consensus was reached on most of the proposed solutions and this regarding Chapter I – Original basis, Article 7. Armed Forces, Article 9. European arrest warrant, Article 31, non-depreciation of war crimes. This Regulation shall enter The Croatian National Bank, 82nd, needs a majority to decide on the crossing and operation of the Armed Forces across the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Article 90 of the adoption of the State budget. This Regulation shall enter The State Judiciary Council. This Regulation shall enter State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Council. Article 125 decision on the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Article 132 of the right to local and regional self-government and new Chapter VII and Articles 141a. to (d) the European Union. Following the long-term harmonisation of the arrangements reached on the amendment to the provision of Article 45. The Constitution or vote of Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia and their representation in the Croatian Parliament, and it is also part of the proposal for a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to those provisions which were part of the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. a group of representatives in the Croatian Parliament's decision to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, provisions are also submitted by civil society associations, the right to access information, and certain institutions, the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. All these amendments to the Constitution in the proposal for a draft amendment can be systematised into two groups, but all this is detailed and described in the context of the proposals for the establishment of a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in the nomotechnical section and with an explanation for each article. And final. I will repeat that the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system has unanimously established and submitted a proposal to the Croatian Parliament to establish a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the proposed and presented scope, meaning and content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54028	Thank you very much to the Vice President and Chairman of the Constitution Committee. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54029	Mr. President, I'd like to correct the two incorrect allegations made by the vice president of the House. First, it is not true that the opposition and the ruling coalition did not agree on the proposal of Article 65. The constitution, as Mr. Vice-President, after talking to you on the 4.2th, is the person you have authorized, which is the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture 5.2. Col. Lugaric and I have reached an agreement on a formulation which, however, was not acceptable to you. You personally. Second. There was a replacement of thesis, Mr. Vice President, because it is not true that the wording proposed by the SDP would prefer high school students to the others because they should continue their education, but that the thesis was expressed just as an objection to the Committee's proposal to the Government. Because the extension of general education means the extension of high school education, and the vast majority of people are educated in vocational education. And secondly, we aim to give people an interest, not in fact to extend general education to which they do not acquire any qualifications.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54030	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54031	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you very much again on the opportunity to speak a few words on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Draft of Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So what is quite certain at this time is that on behalf of the Government, it is certainly that the Republic of Croatia enters the final stage of negotiations for entry into the European Union. I think I can say that the results of the referendum in Slovenia also show that we have removed another obstacle. I expect by summer, so in these days until summer, to open the remaining three chapters, especially here, of course, I mean in the context of the referendum in Slovenia on chapter 31, but I certainly expect to open chapters 23, so for which we have really worked a lot, we have done a lot, quite certainly, that our efforts cut out for cooperation with the International Criminal Court will be recognised, assessed as a job that gives results, but I also remind ourselves that we, above all, have committed ourselves to working with the International Criminal Court, you have given yourself one framework, you have made a commitment, and I am sure that we fully fulfil those obligations. Of course, Chapter 23 is not only co-operation with the International Criminal Court, that it is much more, among other things, judicial reform, but also the fight against corruption, which, not only in Croatia, but also abroad, in the world, and certainly in the European Commission, is assessed as effective. So, I expect by summer to repeat the remaining three chapters will be open, that most will be closed, on this persistent and dedicated work, and I ask you right here in this year and by the end of the session, but certainly also in the coming autumn that we all contribute together to this great deal really successfully. We have also started to work on an accession contract for Croatia, I believe that we will sign the contract at the beginning of next year and then de facto and become a member of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, of course this is a moment to remind us of what we're not going to say, but what's on the table, if we do all that work, it's a budget for the first two years of three and a half billion euros. So it is certainly a respectable money, which, if we know, if we want to, if we want to, if we want to, if we do, and I believe that we will, which will certainly help to address many of the issues primarily related to the economy, for the infrastructure in Croatia favourably. I say all of this in the context of the fact that here is another step ahead of us, in the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, all the countries and most before the accession of the European Union changed their constitutions, which is what the Government suggests we should do, certainly on track and what the chairman of the Constitution of the Croatian Parliament was talking about. The necessity of certain constitutional changes is certainly indicated by the European Union, during the accession negotiations process, in a number of negotiating chapters, and it is absolutely certain that certain constitutional changes that we are talking about today are, in fact, defined and determined as a direct condition, meaning as a criterion for closing certain chapters. What I think is particularly important for us in the government is, and since we will, of course, have to finish this job, and that several laws, namely 14 laws, will directly, but also 3 indirect changes will have to be made in the wake of amendments to the Constitution. What am I saying? We are really just waiting for that moment to happen, so that you MPs and MPs decide to amend the Constitution so that we, in the parliamentary procedure, will immediately or during a certain time, send amendments to 14 laws directly relying on amendments to the Constitution, of which I repeat some of the criteria for closing certain chapters. This job has been fully prepared, and I believe that very soon after you, I believe, successfully bring this job to an end, will be referred to the procedure. Although this has already been done by the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, let me say on behalf of the Government, i.e. point out a few, in our opinion, of the most important changes to the Constitution proposed by the Government. I certainly mean the addition of the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in a way that adds the following to the already mentioned national minorities, so Russians, Bulgarians, Poles, Roma, Romanians, Turks, Vlasi, Albanians, Bosniaks, Montenegrins, Macedonians and Slovenians. Sources of law are also expanding, redefines the role and behaviour of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, certainly especially for us the introduction of a European arrest warrant institute, thus allowing the extradition of Croatian citizens by means of contracted international agreements with a third country. What is particularly important is that there is not one criterion for the closure of any chapter and that we have set ourselves as our task in these amendments to the Constitution, which the Government particularly points out as a positive, is an agreement on the introduction as a constitutional category of non-depreciation of criminal acts of war profit and crime from the process of conversion and privatisation. What is of particular importance and good that we have agreed to regulate and confiscation of property benefits, thus acquired criminal acts, and we think in the Government that this is, that these are extremely serious crimes for which there is no justification, and that it is worth depriving from the application of the Institute of Depreciation. I am particularly pleased that we have agreed on this, so we from the ruling coalition, and the opposition party in the Croatian Parliament. I also stress the introduction of the right to access information owned by public authorities, such as the Constitutional Law, and I would also like to express the satisfaction of the voter rights of Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia that we have been able to agree on what we have managed to find a model, which we have been able to skip sometimes of the nascent interests and have really come to a concrete solution that we are now building on in the Constitution. So that Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia choose 3 MPs, so they have the right to choose 3 MPs in diplomatic and consular representations. We also fully emphasise the independence of the Central Bank, so the Croatian National Bank, which no longer has responsibility for the Croatian Parliament in line with the requirements of legal gain. This also applies to the State Audit Office, which becomes the highest audit institution of the Republic of Croatia. Certainly the obligation and the freeness of general education. As far as the referendum is concerned, we support that decision-making in the referendum requires most of the voters who have joined the referendum, and that is something that will certainly relax decision-making in the end when this whole big deal is over. We should certainly also support the adoption of a state budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. There has been a change around the Ombudsman institution, further consolidation and discussion of the Constitutional principle of independence of the judicial authority through amendments to the provisions on the Supreme Court, further consolidation and development of the independence of the judicial authority through provisions on judicial duty. It also strengthens the position of the State Judicial Council as an independent and independent body of the judicial authority, independent of any influence of the executive and legislative authority. As regards the State's Attorney's Office, the amendments concern the sustainability of the state's attorney's office, the guarantees of a transparent and objective choice of deputy state attorneys, the further development of the provisions on the State's Attorney's Board. Also related to the decision to elect judges of the Constitutional Court to be elected by a two-thirds majority vote of all MPs. There are still some open questions that we are absolutely ready to talk about. Certainly, the right to local and regional, or regional self-government for EU citizens after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and a new head, the EU, is being introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, finally, to point out once again the fact that the Government will send a decision to amend the Constitution in the procedure of the Law on the selection of members, members or members of the European Parliament, the Law on the selection of EU citizens in the body of local and regional self-government, amendments to the Penal Code relating to the arrest warrant, European arrest warrant, amendments to the Law on Courts, on the State Judicial Council, on the State Attorney's Office, on the State-Law Council, the Law on the Judicial Academy, the Law on Defence, the Law on the Participation of Armed Forces in Peacekeeping Operations, the Law on the State Office for Audit, on the Croatian National Bank, the Law on the Referendum and the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. However, also laws that are not, I repeat, directly related to the closing of negotiations, or certain chapters, but certainly on the trail of amendments to the Constitution. So, the Law on the right to access information, the Law on the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. So, this is a big job that we in the government have prepared ourselves for, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on the trail of facts, and here I express the satisfaction I probably share with you, that we are at the end of a great, important and historic path, which is the conclusion of negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU. On behalf of the Government, I propose that the draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia be confirmed in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54032	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54033	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Prime Minister, in her explanation, listed two incorrect allegations that I would like to intervene on. The first is that opposition parties have reached an agreement that citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia vote in diplomatic and consular representations and have only 3 MPs in the Assembly which is not true because it refers only to part of the opposition parties. And the second thing I want to point out is that Croatia is not entering the final phase of the negotiations. It is true that one obstacle has been removed, but it has been set up for Croatia several new ones. This was discussed last week by the Belgian prime minister on his visit to Croatia, and this should be added to the new conditions from the Netherlands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54034	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to the debate under the Law on the Election of the Sports Council, we need to do a scribble on the length of the mandate so that half of the members have a 2-year term and half a 4-year term. I suggest that this be done by the Board for the selection of appointments, that gnawing, and report to the Croatian Parliament. It's the only way we can do it or some ad hoc commission, but the Board of Choices... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And by the time we vote, we'll vote, but let's be informed about the squirming, shall we? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Now we're moving on to the debate. So, I'm opening a debate. The first in the debate on behalf of the SDP club is Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54035	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable Prime Ministers, ministers, colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies and MPs. We've done a lot of work so far, waiting for us a little while longer, and I believe that these few more resilient, but less resilient points will also be possible and feasible in a short time. This is an important job, an important procedure, we've had enough time, we've put forth a lot of effort. They say it's worth the effort, time and energy? It's worth it. If you need 2 and 3 times more because the Constitution is something that is being measured, and it may not change once in 100 years, it may change more often, it may change too often, but when you change it needs a very good and careful measure, and then you can measure it one more time and eventually cut it no matter what the scissors and skirt are in our hands, it is a process in which you can easily cut it. A short time ago we agreed on one of the more resilient points I would say in these constitutional changes it is the vote of Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. One process that has been introduced through our court for years by riots and misunderstandings in the Croatian electoral process, it can be arranged as desired. Election law can be regulated as desired with regard to its own citizens. Experiences are different, the rules are different, the criteria of residence vary from country to country, from Europe, Canada, New Zealand, so any solution that we adopt that does not conflict with some basic principles of international law or among civilized peoples, any such solution is our solution, it is acceptable, it is good if it allows us to live in some reasonable balance and work a number of years, 10, 20, 30, 5 quite anyway. And it seems we've come to such a solution. What I would like to point out when it comes to voting outside the Republic of Croatia, given that we have made ourselves quite clear and publicly manifest and agreed on what we were thinking, I will repeat it here once again. So, SDP, HNS, IDS, HSU, we insisted that the aim of introducing the order of voting outside the Republic of Croatia is to limit it to the seats of diplomatic and consular offices, and then we are in the seats, and I stress this word because it is important because in the last few days there have been sticky interpretations, and I pray that we understand each other clearly, because the prime minister and I understand it clearly, and then we agreed on the quota. It doesn't matter whose proposal it was, we agreed on a compromise solution somewhere halfway to make it fixed three prescribed in the Constitution of persons resident outside the Croatian state, outside the territory of Croatia. The agreement is based on a premium of 150 representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This was understood and we believe that it remains so and therefore I have to take advantage of the opportunity here to say that certain announcements, conversations, signals of the last days about how it may be accessed, or to approach amendments to the Election Law are not simply part of that conversation, are not good, I will look for it and ask here for a clear indication of the responsible persons it is primarily the Prime Minister. So, is there any intention to alter, in any way, and especially more radically, but in any way regulate, amend or conceptually amend the Croatian electoral law. As we know, it is possible only by special constitutional provisions, only within a year, so it is not possible within a year before the regular deadline for calling elections, which means that a certain number of months may be possible. So I'm going to beg your opinion on it, but I'm also going to say our point of view. Election legislation is, the Constitution itself says why it is so sensitive, and why it is being and how it is being smiled and when it can be changed but it is something that should last. As imperfect as it is, if it's not directly harmful. So we're looking at the states of the cradle of democracy, which for centuries and a half have been voting on the same system that he said was irregular, but it's a factor of stability and legitimate expectations. In her 20 years, Croatia has tried several electoral models, some may have been methodically democratic even something more representative than what is now in force, but the one that is now in force, the ratios that have been in force for 10 years have allowed for choices to be as normal and predictable as they are and as we can see with different outcomes. He provides a reasonable representative of the parties in relation to the number of votes they received in the general population and, of course, as far as election units are concerned, he is imperfect but still makes sure that in each unit he is plus a minus 10 or 5% equal number of voters. So that's what I'm asking for, and I'm asking for that indication because it was one of the premises of our conversations. In this sense, we will propose that in this constitutional provision that has passed on the Committee, and therefore our colleagues have voted there simply for the sake of goodwill and acceleration of the process, to clarify some things that are still being added in Article 45 that the votes in the headquarters of diplomatic and consular representations are being voted upon to make things absolutely clear, so this is about the principles, which we have advocated, which we have clearly defined and which as such has no reason not to be clearly scholarshipd in the Croatian Constitution. As far as education is concerned, for half a year, we have been talking about this and it seems to me that the provisions on compulsory and free education in the Croatian Constitution are Article 65 which should be changed here and said something different. This dispute I'm hearing about, as president of the party and president of the club, I find it difficult to place myself as an arbiter, I think our arguments were both clear and well-intentioned, but I also find that this is one of the few topics that does not have the classic political relationship of competition in which one party wants to achieve something then through a constitutional or legal formulation it hides in a less or more skillful way. Here, I am sure, this is both well-intentioned and that today or tomorrow, if there is a change of government, whoever is in power, achieves the best legal solution that the Constitution will not mind. And that is why I think it is still possible to sit down today and think about these things because I believe that there are more than anywhere good intensities that will enable a later good and fair, social, generalized one legislative framework. The choice of Constitutional Judges, which as well as some other provisions are the product of thinking and thinking in the SDP, I would say, that was our proposal, our amendment was that Constitutional Judges were chosen by a two-thirds majority, and that the budget was passed by most of all MPs as an act of trust in one policy that must be tested at least once a year, and you accepted that. So the original position here I will tell HDZ or the government coalition was to keep the Constitutional Judges choosing the way they have been elected over the past years. In our bad way, in our view, the way that allowed people who are not qualified for the job, who meet only the minimum of the formal criteria, is not good, so this proposal on the two-thirds majority. This proposal allows, it's a complicated process, but it allows tomorrow to disable anyone who thinks that a simple parliamentary majority can be inserted into the Constitutional Court by anyone. It gives power to control, tomorrow's opposition whoever it is, it was our intensity, it was our amendment. Someone may say that he is politically naive, but I believe that he is democratic and that he is medium-term but particularly long-term that he is good for Croatia and that he will simply impose a lovable nolens most standards on the Constitutional Court and that no one will dare propose and represent any candidate or candidate who is not the most classy. To this, such a provision as SDP's proposal, the SDP's amendment has added another part in the past few weeks, an addictive sentence that says that if a two-thirds majority is not reached, the current judge's term of office will be extended indefinitely. That wasn't our proposal. I've seen a small part of the constitutional judges get involved in that debate, which I don't think is good. The workers know, "Iura's new girl," the court knows the law, but it doesn't prescribe it. It's not even in the U.S. Supreme Court, it's nowhere to be found. It was about constitutional changes in technical nature, status, ideological nature, national nature, constitutional judges, supreme judges must have independence, status, which stem from the way they were chosen but should not and should not participate in any way in the process of amending the Constitution. The public can and should, not government organisations can and need, church, associations, yes, political parties above all because they make that decision in the Parliament. Constitutional judges don't. And in the end, two things about the very idea of extending the term of office to judges, that's not a good idea. We're on it, we said it clearly on the board. Therefore, when the judge's term of office expires, I do not see the danger of questioning the functioning of the court. Pressure is also a responsibility for political parties and their leadership to choose the two-thirds majority in a transparent, quality process. And I am convinced that this pressure of the public and the profession will give way and that it will not delay the choice of candidates but will easily agree on a high-quality candidate for the two-thirds majority. If we accept the proposed provision, there is a possibility, and you know that people perform in life with various positions and various motives, there is a possibility that whoever does not want a change in the Constitutional Court, and there is a minority in the Assembly simply invariably obstructs the choice of a new judge or a new judge. That's not good. And let's not call on the opinion of the Venice Commission from 13 years ago, because if we're going to exactly refer to those opinions that I'm very familiar with as a young diplomat then, it also stands in them, it's a loose recommendation based on the experience of only one country then, which is Portugal. If no agreement can be reached, then the worst case scenario is to lower the quorum, so approach the choice by the ordinary majority. And we're going back to the beginning of the story, the choice of the ordinary majority. Is that what you want? According to your proposal, you want it. You didn't propose an amendment. We suggested it. Let's stay with this original proposal and let's not, we can call, but let's not insist on non-binding opinions on legal debate forums from 13 years ago. And let's not make this a simple appeal, there's no other instrument, so that someone doesn't interpret it as a pressure on the judiciary, this is a process in which everyone participates except those who interpret the rights. They must be impartial, independent and distanced. And two more things, I hope only two more of which we also said at the last stage of the conversation. Sexual orientation and the president's office. Sexual orientation. So our proposal was to introduce in the Croatian Constitution after it was governed by the Organic Law on Disclosure of Discrimination, also as one of the grounds for preventing and avoiding discrimination, sexual orientation. Namely, it is the only provision that exists in the Organic Law in its Article 1 and is not in the Croatian Constitution. It can stay that way in principle. So protection is secured by Organic Law. There's been a lot of storms about passing that law. In our court, however, it would be a good message to all those who think and think that violent and discriminatory behavior is possible and to be tolerated, to predict such a thing with the Croatian Constitution. I think the representatives of the associations, here I speak first of all on behalf of the SDP, that representatives of the associations were very clear about what may concern some opponents of the ban on sexual discrimination in the Constitution, which is the adoption of children and the right to marriage and the possibility to fully define marriage differently. So, according to what we hear in the public, there are no such expectations and demands. The introduction of such a provision into the Constitution, and you ladies and gentlemen entered it into the Organic Law a year and a few days ago, by introducing such a provision into the Constitution, we would have sent a message to the violent people and to those who believe and live in the 19th century. Think about it. There's no danger of any broader interpretation, because it's a sensitive social issue and we're aware of it. And finally, the president's office. I've got another minute. The president's office, but this is what Sapiente's watch is about today. We don't want to be there anymore, I think we can and need to talk about it, maybe the government and the President of the Republic. So, according to the Constitution, the Office of Presidents is governed by the law passed by the Croatian Parliament. In 10 years, the Croatian Parliament has not passed the law, not that the government has never proposed it, but has never discussed it, so the former president has arranged his office with his unconstitutional decision, it is not in the Constitution. The Constitution speaks of the law and of the rule. Our position is, we have nothing to edit the structure of the president's office, structure. What would it say in that law? That the president was directly elected, that he could be a man or a woman and that he had an office and that the office would be governed by a rulebook. What is a key instrument of control, and it must exist and will always exist, while this assembly is financial control, both of the courts and of the government, and of the Office of Presidents. So if the president wants 50 advisors, let him get a budget of 500 million kuna. This Parliament gives him 50 million kuna. And it will always be the subject of political conversation and reason. But the law itself should contain what? Five articles. Say you can have a farm counselor, but you can't have a nuclear submarine counsellor or a defense counsellor. That's what the president has to decide for himself and that's the suggestion. I think after 10 years of inactivity, this norm died, that it no longer has any social, political basis. Look. That's what I expect at the end of the line to show the interested party. We don't have the ambition to edit it, especially. I thank you colleagues and colleagues in the hope that the agreement on these several important but open issues, after agreeing on some equally important or perhaps slightly more important issues, if not more important of the more neurological issues are possible, I thank you for your attention and for exceeding time I apologize. And respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54036	Thank you very much. For his word, he answered on behalf of the committee president, President Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54037	Thank you very much. Let us once clarify this dilemma about Article 65, therefore, about the obligation and the freeness of education. There was a proposal from the Government that is now and before you that general education is mandatory and free and there is a proposal for a group of representatives to amend the Constitution to introduce in Article 65 the principle that this is an education until the first call is made compulsory and free. The quality working group failed to find a compromise between these two solutions, so I, as co-chair with my colleague Mimic, gave it to you, Mr. Flego, Mrs. Lugaric, the chairman of the Committee on Education and Science, Mr. Peter Selem and Minister of Education Fuchs, to try to find that solution. They held talks, consultations with each other, and at the end of those consultations they came to me with that no solution was found. So, colleague Flego, don't impute me all the time, but I don't know which time I've refused to accept a harmonised solution. I have no motive or interest to remove one harmonised solution between the opposition, between the government, between the ruling party, between the boards, that I do not accept this solution. So there's no reason. Mr. Peter Selem here is alive and well, so make a statement about what you came to me in the end, what kind of solutions you came to me with. You did tell me that after talking on the board, talking to a colleague and a colleague, you didn't come up with a common solution, and then I put the solution further into the discussion on the board. Is it possible now, it is possible to find, but there is no way to find a solution to give up the key position again. The Committee cited the reasons why it is held that under this formula, general education is mandatory and free of charge so that it can be regulated by law and the length of longer insurance than eight years of primary education, so that it does not exclude that laws, when material and other assumptions are reached, resolve the issue and education for which a particular profession is acquired. I don't know how else we could, we couldn't, we couldn't help but solve that opposition by voting. Second, with regard to constitutional judges, the election of constitutional judges. It is true that it was the initiative of a group of MPs who also accepted the ruling coalition and the government to elect the Constitutional Court 2/3 majority. But then came the initiative of the Constitutional Court that if the judges of the Constitutional Court were to choose 2/3 of the majority not to come... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So listen, and besides that, listen means to be taught something. ... It means being taught. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So now I'm going to give you a little presentation on this election of constitutional judges. Why is that 2/3 majority when it is introduced why it is necessary to prevent certain corrective mechanisms from blocking the work of the Constitutional Court or its operation in full in the event that Parliament or another competent authority does not select or appoint a timely judge of the Constitutional Court and has previously expired my term of office. There are strong, multiple-checked European legal standards developed by the Commission for Democracy through Law, the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, which is members of 47 European countries. The Venice Commission proposes that if the new Constitutional Judge or the new Constitutional Judges do not choose in time that there must be a safeguard mechanism that will allow the Constitutional Court to continue to work uninterrupted and have a full quorum and, accordingly, the Venice Commission has accepted the standard by which the Member States of the Council of Europe should provide for the possibility that, due to the institutional stability of the Constitutional Court, the term of office of the Constitutional Court may be extended until the entry into office of the new Judge in the event that a new judge has not been elected by the end of his term of office. The Venice Commission's standard was published in a document by the Venice Commission titled "The composition of the '97 constitutional courts. the year." Document titled "Constituent of Constitutional Courts of '97. the year." I quote: "The rules of choice should provide for the possibility of a non-action of the competent authority and prescribe an extension of the judge's term of office until his or her successor's election." This solution is embedded in the legal order of the countries of Bulgaria, Germany, Portugal and Spain. The lack of such a mechanism was also criticised by the Council of Europe in the case of Italy, and it was also found to be the cause and instability of the Constitutional Court of Hungary when there was no election or termination of the term of office, and the new constitutional judges were not elected. So this is the position of the Venice Commission embedded in that legal standard and incorporated into the four legal solutions of these countries that I have cited. In 2001, the Venice Commission proposed to the Croatian government, the Croatian Parliament, proposed that such a mechanism be installed which is now in question. But in 2002, in the adoption of the Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, it was proposed that the solution and the opinion of the Venice Commission through the rights issued by the expert of the Venice Commission Pierre... not accepted in the amendment of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now the Constitutional Court has again proposed once the two-thirds majority re-proposed it to be introduced by changing the Constitution when the two-thirds majority goes, that there is one mechanism that will ensure the stability of the constitutional judiciary. Just one more illustration. During this entire period from 2001 to 19.11.2002, the Constitutional Court did not act in full composition, 6 years and 11 months and 24 days. Often in many years he acted with fewer judges or 2 years he had fewer judges or one year or a long period of time. So these are the reasons why the parliamentary majority in the draft constitution has gone through the Constitution Committee to install that this position of the Venice Commission is installed so as not to block it simply in a way that when a single wave comes to the end of the term of office of a series of judges of constitutional courts that the Constitutional Court does not remain in the back or even the back of the system. So these are the reasons and I am calling for these reasons, I am giving arguments to both the Venice Commission and these constitutional order of these four European states.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54038	Thank you. We have two corrections. First, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54039	Your Honor, I'm embarrassed to use this institute. I'll make it right first. So, '97. The solution was only Portugal in the year, according to Portugal, otherwise judges chose each other. So 13 judges, 10 elected by Parliament, and the remaining 3 judges alone. I'm asking you one more time, because I'm abusing this institute for a second now. Don't quote things superficially. There are many other things in that account. It's a non-binding '97 opinion. A year. The last sentence of this report says that these criteria are extremely wake, therefore extremely vague and that they are applied from case to case who wants to. Don't end up pulling our own amendment, because it's our amendment because now this kind of intervention is completely insulting and taking away its meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54040	Thank you. Mr. Iron Flego, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54041	Mr. Vice President, of course I wouldn't want to impute if you had refused. But I took part in this, so I testify firsthand that after we talked to you on the 4.2th, we are with the delegate to say so or to the authority you appointed 5.2. we have reached an agreement on how the wording of the Constitution could be read. And two. I ask you to consider, and your entire committee, that on 14th 10th, the parent board on education, science and culture has decided that the proposal made by the Government is not good because of the formulation of general education. And you have that in point 2 of the Committee's conclusion of 14.10. Because general education is a gymnasium education and insistence on general education discriminates between 70 and some of the others, so vocational education. And that's what it says in the board's conclusion from the 14th of last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54042	Excuse me, were you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, he can't replica, he can't fix it, he can hurt the Rules of Procedure. That'll do it. Okay. Here you go. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54043	Mr. President, Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure has been injured in the sense that my colleague Flege's claim does not fully correspond to the truth. Namely, I am like the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and all my colleagues know that just given that science, culture and education are something that must be beyond party opposition. I've always tried to run one policy of agreement, agreement and absolutely avoid any party competition. As far as this particular situation is concerned, I have warned from the beginning that the idea of compulsory education to the first qualification cannot go away because it introduces an insymmetry in terms of compulsory education. As for the concrete work of our small group of colleagues, Flego, colleague Lugarić and I, we have discussed here and we have come to a possible content that I have immediately warned that it is not a constitutional formulation and to leave it to the Constitutional Commission to assess in what sense and to what extent the content that we have drawn in some way can be the fact of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54044	Okay. Let's move on with the debate. It's up to IDS Club and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54045	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Madam Representatives, Ministers. There's a compote in front of us, I don't know how to call it constitutional norms, and as far as we've had before, Europe, but also minority rights. I mean here on this preamble to today's neighbors. When I say relations to the neighbours, then I mean the right of the vote of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina of Croatian nationality, etc. The extradition is being discussed here, the revision of conversion and privatisation. All right, citizen. The position of the Croatian National Bank, you will hear what I think about it. Position of the Croatian National Bank, Constitutional Court, etc., vote by European citizens in local elections etc. Perhaps even more important, not that perhaps, but certainly more important are those solutions that will then be drawn into our laws, etc. etc. But let's take the turn now. Since the agreement between Mr Milanovic and Mrs Kosor or Mrs Kosor and Mr Milanovic, much has happened clearly. In that agreement, I say no one, nor Mrs. Kosor, nor Mr. Milanovic lost, but the question arises who got it. Come on, it's good to vote in those diplomatic representations. They're in Bosnia and Herzegovina if I'm not mistaken for four or five. It's something to praise that went after Mr Milanovic's hand, although I am personally against that so-called. The Croatian diaspora in Bosnia and Herzegovina has three mandates guaranteed in Article 7(2) and they are elected, I quote "in accordance with the law". It is good that in the meantime, those war logs of Martic were announced to see what the policy of the then political leadership towards Bosnia and Herzegovina was like. But to be immediately and unequivocally clear, I am against the fact that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are voting in favour of the Croatian elections at all or voting in a Croatian referendum. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a sovereign state, independent, it is unquestionable, it is an independent state and gentlemen share fate in it. What I respect, what happened in the previous presidential elections, is that the citizens of the Croatian nationality in Bosnia and Herzegovina voted as one for their own, and it might be good to vote that way elsewhere. That's what I admit and I respect. We should say clearly we'll help, but a lot of majority. I agree, one who has Croatian citizenship in Croatia can do anything, but I will be understood by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, here is the Istrians, probably the most isolated in the budget, at least returning, do the Istrians have any ministers? They don't. Do we have one secretary of 150 from the HDZ ranks clearly, one ambassador of 150, one judge of the Constitutional Court, not one head of any agency or any other national institution, has a brother to his brother 150, not one general, there are about 150, not one director of any state firm of 150, etc. So the only real strangers. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I said that we have one Constitutional Court judge, Alda Radolovic, so the only real foreigners in this country are Istrians, so rather than being impertinent, one fixed quota should apply to Istria than to the Herzegovians. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And when I say that, gentlemen, I'm not really kidding, because what I'm saying is true and what I'm saying is one thing really. Here, for example. The Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina will elect three MPs under the Constitution, with a fixed quota of three MPs. How will they choose them? I am 100% sure that they will be elected as Serbs, so if these have the meaning of three MPs in a way that whoever has the vote more, they will take all three mandates. It's neither fair nor fair to the Serbs first, nor fair to this second. This election game, three Serbian votes, with a vote no more without a double right to vote, is, in my opinion, the destruction of democracy, as well as the election of three representatives of Croatian nationality in Bosnia and Herzegovina or the diaspora again with a vote. Why, Mr. Shakespeare, in these constitutional changes, there's no double voting law, so-called. small, small or minority or smaller minorities. It is clear to HDZ that it or such solutions will bring all three mandates, so you will certainly play on that solution. The Church will normally bless all of this, demand even more, but it is important to do so or existing laws, and if it is not installed, punish those who consistently represent exactly national minorities. Here is a moment ago Mr Milanovic also spoke about Fristic, or Mr Fristic's proposal about the new electoral model, I say he is also on the trail of an electoral arithmetic, but I call on all the national representatives, especially the government's gentlemen to raise their hand for a direct election of MPs, because why all of Croatia should be directly elected only the national representatives cannot be directly elected by the people. We can also directly elect the president of the state and mayor of the City of Zagreb, and 20 mayors and 127 mayors, we directly elect 429 mayors, and 5 out of 8 minority representatives, only the national representatives cannot be directly elected by their people. Then why don't we divide Croatia into 120 electoral units, and see whose mother has black fleece. Well, I'm sure the people will. I'm 100% sure the people will. And who won't? Not the elite in this home and in the executive government. That's actually how it is. And why won't you? Because some are afraid that I can't go that way, that the answer is complete. To return to the European Union now, whatever Europe means today. If someone called Europe 20 years ago, then it is IDS, and so am I, today people across this country have cooled down a little bit when it comes to Europe, God and I, today, because of our 90s policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and Europe on Croatia looking at us differently than it did before, today, after the conversion and from Europe, it is different from before the conversion, today I don't know about it after its papal field, tape and Europe looking at Croatia differently than before, etc. But the day before yesterday, that meant 7.6. "Dnevnik", I watch "Dnevnik" and now that spokeswoman, Hungary, says the quality of the negotiations is more urgent than speed. The same day before yesterday means 7.6. Speculation about the collapse of the Eurozone, I don't believe it, because I don't want to be right once again when I'm ordering just when we meet all the conditions then that Europe will fall apart. I would personally like us to withdraw 3 and a half billion euros from Europe in the first two years, but the Bulgarians were hoping so in the first year, or the Romanians do not know exactly now, they withdrew only 7 or 10 million euros, etc. Of course, I'm kidding about how to break up the euro zone, even though it's said in an information show, but never say it again. We need Europe normally because of the euro, because of the financing of foreign debt, because of imports, and I say that the HDZ Europe needs it because they didn't offer anything on the economic plan, okay, and what's the point of all this volunteering to Europe, and that's the best thing that's happened in Slovenia, I think that the ruling party should join elections for the Croatian Parliament sometime in the 4th month 2010, with a referendum on Croatia's accession to the European Union. That's the point I'd say these and constitutional changes. So if these two things match, that's how the president of our board said star matching if that political elite could be held in power again. That's kind of what's said. Therefore, and this set of changes, I would say, concerns exactly the referendum and the European Union, for this reason, Croatia should and gave in to Slovenia in such a way that we de facto gave in 150 square kilometers of territorial waters, so with the privatisation of banks, with the leaving of the market, we import 25 billion euros, we export 10 billion euros. We should have given a piece of the sea, and now we are showing the Slovenian referendum as a Croatian success, and that the Slovenian establishment has not solved any open question, not when it comes to the Ljubljanska Banka, nor when it comes to the occupation of St. Gera, nor when it comes to the construction of roads towards Croatia, nor liberalises the border regime, etc. And I want to believe that, according to my information, this should happen in 6th of July in Buzet, that there, Mr. Presidents Josipovic and Turk may discuss it. It is clear, to be honest, if I were a Slovenian citizen, I would certainly vote for the Slovenian referendum, but if I had been given such an opportunity in Croatia, and therefore we were not given such an opportunity, I would hardly raise my hand for the same referendum. At the audit... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In the case of a revision of the conversion...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I was born in Slovenia, that's all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I'm probably the only one, I went after my hand to distract Racan from paraphrasing those 1 acres around Joras' house, I started a Buzet brewery in Buzet, giving concessions on the Piran Bay. So you see what the others here have done about it. Perhaps today the starting point for the distinction would have been far, far away on the Croatian side if it hadn't been for that. As for the revision of the conversion, we gentlemen can do it as they say, hang the cat on the tail. I'm absolutely in, but it won't be anything. We can't even solve a question like that. tourism land, and where will we address the issue of revision of conversion or privatisation? We continue to allow people to use campes of 100, 200 hectares, normally private capital to pay no one anything, and that for one table per square metre in Poreč, hosts have to pay, I don't know 15 or 17 euros, clearly that they need to be careful there. Because this tourism traffic dropped 15% in the first five months, investments are estimated at no more than a billion kuna last year, 4 billion. Only on that basis did the state lose 700 million kuna of VAT. But who controls this country? I claim the Parliament doesn't, executive authority certainly does. This country is controlled by the executive power and capital. Who owns the media? Well, of course he owns the capital. Who owns monopolys outside of the HEP, Croatian waters etc.? It's owned by capital. Who's got banks? He's got capital. Who has a monopoly on cigarettes? Well, of course he's got capital. Who's got the tourist companies? He's got capital. What can we do? To decide on your menu, perhaps on wages, on the Constitution, the laws will be prepared by the government anyway, so you will only raise the same hand. And I say, if the MPs were to choose directly to change all that directly as well. As far as extradition is concerned, I'm absolutely on a European arrest warrant, but I'd like to know if Gotovina bought a stake in Hydropower with Royce and Ross. Then why are companies publicly raising money for someone's defense if someone owns a hydropower plant? For the end of the preamble, the Slovenes, the Bosniaks return. I've always fought for them, and when the 3rd January coalition changed this constitution and when it changed in '97, '98, but I also think it should suggest that in the spirit of good neighbourly politics and return Croatia restores and those buildings that our own have destroyed outside the war of the occupied area, and we've changed the Law on Mandatory Relations, I think it's an art. 196., so that these people would not simply be able to rebuild as is restored by Croatian authorities what was destroyed by the Storm, etc. For the end, I am opposed to citizens outside Croatia voting for opportunities in Croatia. I agree that to a large extent many of them have owed these premises. Yeah, I'm gonna say it one more time for Europe. Not for territorial concessions, but the point of change is in the following: it means to include a referendum on the EU with elections for the Croatian Parliament, because then it might match up with some stars. Here, that's what my remarks on this constitutional text are. We'll be for this proposal, and we'll see about the Constitution when it just happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54046	Okay, thank you. We have a few corrections. The first is Mr. Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54047	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting all the incorrect allegations of counterpart Caine when he spoke about the BiH diaspora, when he spoke about the elections in Herzegovina, when he spoke about BiH lawmakers. He knows that it is not so, he knows that this law applies and this is all we talk about to Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia. I would say that this really exceeded every measure, colleague Cain. That this is the kind of racism of Damir Caine. He is sentenced to this House, he is sentenced to every normal man in Croatia, and enough is enough. You have trafficked Caine, Damir Kajine has trafficked you into a representative of the division instead of a peacemaker and a closer and order in the Croatian state and the Croatian people, and this is really more unacceptable. And the bribe you keep talking about, some Croatian politics in BiH is a myth and the most common prank you keep repeating even though you know it's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54048	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54049	I want Mr. President to warn Mr. Representative when my presentations qualify for the thesis on racism. Because none of my behavior, none of my spoken word in the last 20 years that I've been in politics can be characterized in that way. Not even when some with a rifle were tearing down the Old Bridge in Mostar, when others were worried that those who were expelled were taking care of it. And a lot of these insults and a lot of these qualifications. Enough!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54050	I ask all MPs and MPs not to generally use difficult words and disqualifications because racism is indeed a difficult qualification and therefore a little, so let's say, let's be a little more moderate in qualifications because we can say the same thing, but a little different words. That's what I'm asking. Furthermore, the correction of Mr. Daniel Srb's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54051	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Cain said in his statement that the basis of this proposal for constitutional change would give the Croats 3 MPs in BiH. Namely, this is incorrect because MPs 3 will have the Croatian diaspora in Toronto, Stutgart, BiH or somewhere else, and regardless of how unacceptable this model for me for Croatia is in the long term and offensive to Croatia's diaspora because it is impossible for us to have three categories of Croatian citizens, those who have dual citizenship are Croatian and Serbian citizens of deluxe categories, and those who have Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina are third-class citizens. It happens in these constitutional changes and it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54052	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to the debate under the Law on the Election of the Sports Council, we need to do a scribble on the length of the mandate so that half of the members have a 2-year term and half a 4-year term. I suggest that this be done by the Board for the selection of appointments, that gnawing, and report to the Croatian Parliament. It's the only way we can do it or some ad hoc commission, but the Board of Choices... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And by the time we vote, we'll vote, but let's be informed about the squirming, shall we? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Now we're moving on to the debate. So, I'm opening a debate. The first in the debate on behalf of the SDP club is Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54053	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable Prime Ministers, ministers, colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies and MPs. We've done a lot of work so far, waiting for us a little while longer, and I believe that these few more resilient, but less resilient points will also be possible and feasible in a short time. This is an important job, an important procedure, we've had enough time, we've put forth a lot of effort. They say it's worth the effort, time and energy? It's worth it. If you need 2 and 3 times more because the Constitution is something that is being measured, and it may not change once in 100 years, it may change more often, it may change too often, but when you change it needs a very good and careful measure, and then you can measure it one more time and eventually cut it no matter what the scissors and skirt are in our hands, it is a process in which you can easily cut it. A short time ago we agreed on one of the more resilient points I would say in these constitutional changes it is the vote of Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. One process that has been introduced through our court for years by riots and misunderstandings in the Croatian electoral process, it can be arranged as desired. Election law can be regulated as desired with regard to its own citizens. Experiences are different, the rules are different, the criteria of residence vary from country to country, from Europe, Canada, New Zealand, so any solution that we adopt that does not conflict with some basic principles of international law or among civilized peoples, any such solution is our solution, it is acceptable, it is good if it allows us to live in some reasonable balance and work a number of years, 10, 20, 30, 5 quite anyway. And it seems we've come to such a solution. What I would like to point out when it comes to voting outside the Republic of Croatia, given that we have made ourselves quite clear and publicly manifest and agreed on what we were thinking, I will repeat it here once again. So, SDP, HNS, IDS, HSU, we insisted that the aim of introducing the order of voting outside the Republic of Croatia is to limit it to the seats of diplomatic and consular offices, and then we are in the seats, and I stress this word because it is important because in the last few days there have been sticky interpretations, and I pray that we understand each other clearly, because the prime minister and I understand it clearly, and then we agreed on the quota. It doesn't matter whose proposal it was, we agreed on a compromise solution somewhere halfway to make it fixed three prescribed in the Constitution of persons resident outside the Croatian state, outside the territory of Croatia. The agreement is based on a premium of 150 representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This was understood and we believe that it remains so and therefore I have to take advantage of the opportunity here to say that certain announcements, conversations, signals of the last days about how it may be accessed, or to approach amendments to the Election Law are not simply part of that conversation, are not good, I will look for it and ask here for a clear indication of the responsible persons it is primarily the Prime Minister. So, is there any intention to alter, in any way, and especially more radically, but in any way regulate, amend or conceptually amend the Croatian electoral law. As we know, it is possible only by special constitutional provisions, only within a year, so it is not possible within a year before the regular deadline for calling elections, which means that a certain number of months may be possible. So I'm going to beg your opinion on it, but I'm also going to say our point of view. Election legislation is, the Constitution itself says why it is so sensitive, and why it is being and how it is being smiled and when it can be changed but it is something that should last. As imperfect as it is, if it's not directly harmful. So we're looking at the states of the cradle of democracy, which for centuries and a half have been voting on the same system that he said was irregular, but it's a factor of stability and legitimate expectations. In her 20 years, Croatia has tried several electoral models, some may have been methodically democratic even something more representative than what is now in force, but the one that is now in force, the ratios that have been in force for 10 years have allowed for choices to be as normal and predictable as they are and as we can see with different outcomes. He provides a reasonable representative of the parties in relation to the number of votes they received in the general population and, of course, as far as election units are concerned, he is imperfect but still makes sure that in each unit he is plus a minus 10 or 5% equal number of voters. So that's what I'm asking for, and I'm asking for that indication because it was one of the premises of our conversations. In this sense, we will propose that in this constitutional provision that has passed on the Committee, and therefore our colleagues have voted there simply for the sake of goodwill and acceleration of the process, to clarify some things that are still being added in Article 45 that the votes in the headquarters of diplomatic and consular representations are being voted upon to make things absolutely clear, so this is about the principles, which we have advocated, which we have clearly defined and which as such has no reason not to be clearly scholarshipd in the Croatian Constitution. As far as education is concerned, for half a year, we have been talking about this and it seems to me that the provisions on compulsory and free education in the Croatian Constitution are Article 65 which should be changed here and said something different. This dispute I'm hearing about, as president of the party and president of the club, I find it difficult to place myself as an arbiter, I think our arguments were both clear and well-intentioned, but I also find that this is one of the few topics that does not have the classic political relationship of competition in which one party wants to achieve something then through a constitutional or legal formulation it hides in a less or more skillful way. Here, I am sure, this is both well-intentioned and that today or tomorrow, if there is a change of government, whoever is in power, achieves the best legal solution that the Constitution will not mind. And that is why I think it is still possible to sit down today and think about these things because I believe that there are more than anywhere good intensities that will enable a later good and fair, social, generalized one legislative framework. The choice of Constitutional Judges, which as well as some other provisions are the product of thinking and thinking in the SDP, I would say, that was our proposal, our amendment was that Constitutional Judges were chosen by a two-thirds majority, and that the budget was passed by most of all MPs as an act of trust in one policy that must be tested at least once a year, and you accepted that. So the original position here I will tell HDZ or the government coalition was to keep the Constitutional Judges choosing the way they have been elected over the past years. In our bad way, in our view, the way that allowed people who are not qualified for the job, who meet only the minimum of the formal criteria, is not good, so this proposal on the two-thirds majority. This proposal allows, it's a complicated process, but it allows tomorrow to disable anyone who thinks that a simple parliamentary majority can be inserted into the Constitutional Court by anyone. It gives power to control, tomorrow's opposition whoever it is, it was our intensity, it was our amendment. Someone may say that he is politically naive, but I believe that he is democratic and that he is medium-term but particularly long-term that he is good for Croatia and that he will simply impose a lovable nolens most standards on the Constitutional Court and that no one will dare propose and represent any candidate or candidate who is not the most classy. To this, such a provision as SDP's proposal, the SDP's amendment has added another part in the past few weeks, an addictive sentence that says that if a two-thirds majority is not reached, the current judge's term of office will be extended indefinitely. That wasn't our proposal. I've seen a small part of the constitutional judges get involved in that debate, which I don't think is good. The workers know, "Iura's new girl," the court knows the law, but it doesn't prescribe it. It's not even in the U.S. Supreme Court, it's nowhere to be found. It was about constitutional changes in technical nature, status, ideological nature, national nature, constitutional judges, supreme judges must have independence, status, which stem from the way they were chosen but should not and should not participate in any way in the process of amending the Constitution. The public can and should, not government organisations can and need, church, associations, yes, political parties above all because they make that decision in the Parliament. Constitutional judges don't. And in the end, two things about the very idea of extending the term of office to judges, that's not a good idea. We're on it, we said it clearly on the board. Therefore, when the judge's term of office expires, I do not see the danger of questioning the functioning of the court. Pressure is also a responsibility for political parties and their leadership to choose the two-thirds majority in a transparent, quality process. And I am convinced that this pressure of the public and the profession will give way and that it will not delay the choice of candidates but will easily agree on a high-quality candidate for the two-thirds majority. If we accept the proposed provision, there is a possibility, and you know that people perform in life with various positions and various motives, there is a possibility that whoever does not want a change in the Constitutional Court, and there is a minority in the Assembly simply invariably obstructs the choice of a new judge or a new judge. That's not good. And let's not call on the opinion of the Venice Commission from 13 years ago, because if we're going to exactly refer to those opinions that I'm very familiar with as a young diplomat then, it also stands in them, it's a loose recommendation based on the experience of only one country then, which is Portugal. If no agreement can be reached, then the worst case scenario is to lower the quorum, so approach the choice by the ordinary majority. And we're going back to the beginning of the story, the choice of the ordinary majority. Is that what you want? According to your proposal, you want it. You didn't propose an amendment. We suggested it. Let's stay with this original proposal and let's not, we can call, but let's not insist on non-binding opinions on legal debate forums from 13 years ago. And let's not make this a simple appeal, there's no other instrument, so that someone doesn't interpret it as a pressure on the judiciary, this is a process in which everyone participates except those who interpret the rights. They must be impartial, independent and distanced. And two more things, I hope only two more of which we also said at the last stage of the conversation. Sexual orientation and the president's office. Sexual orientation. So our proposal was to introduce in the Croatian Constitution after it was governed by the Organic Law on Disclosure of Discrimination, also as one of the grounds for preventing and avoiding discrimination, sexual orientation. Namely, it is the only provision that exists in the Organic Law in its Article 1 and is not in the Croatian Constitution. It can stay that way in principle. So protection is secured by Organic Law. There's been a lot of storms about passing that law. In our court, however, it would be a good message to all those who think and think that violent and discriminatory behavior is possible and to be tolerated, to predict such a thing with the Croatian Constitution. I think the representatives of the associations, here I speak first of all on behalf of the SDP, that representatives of the associations were very clear about what may concern some opponents of the ban on sexual discrimination in the Constitution, which is the adoption of children and the right to marriage and the possibility to fully define marriage differently. So, according to what we hear in the public, there are no such expectations and demands. The introduction of such a provision into the Constitution, and you ladies and gentlemen entered it into the Organic Law a year and a few days ago, by introducing such a provision into the Constitution, we would have sent a message to the violent people and to those who believe and live in the 19th century. Think about it. There's no danger of any broader interpretation, because it's a sensitive social issue and we're aware of it. And finally, the president's office. I've got another minute. The president's office, but this is what Sapiente's watch is about today. We don't want to be there anymore, I think we can and need to talk about it, maybe the government and the President of the Republic. So, according to the Constitution, the Office of Presidents is governed by the law passed by the Croatian Parliament. In 10 years, the Croatian Parliament has not passed the law, not that the government has never proposed it, but has never discussed it, so the former president has arranged his office with his unconstitutional decision, it is not in the Constitution. The Constitution speaks of the law and of the rule. Our position is, we have nothing to edit the structure of the president's office, structure. What would it say in that law? That the president was directly elected, that he could be a man or a woman and that he had an office and that the office would be governed by a rulebook. What is a key instrument of control, and it must exist and will always exist, while this assembly is financial control, both of the courts and of the government, and of the Office of Presidents. So if the president wants 50 advisors, let him get a budget of 500 million kuna. This Parliament gives him 50 million kuna. And it will always be the subject of political conversation and reason. But the law itself should contain what? Five articles. Say you can have a farm counselor, but you can't have a nuclear submarine counsellor or a defense counsellor. That's what the president has to decide for himself and that's the suggestion. I think after 10 years of inactivity, this norm died, that it no longer has any social, political basis. Look. That's what I expect at the end of the line to show the interested party. We don't have the ambition to edit it, especially. I thank you colleagues and colleagues in the hope that the agreement on these several important but open issues, after agreeing on some equally important or perhaps slightly more important issues, if not more important of the more neurological issues are possible, I thank you for your attention and for exceeding time I apologize. And respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54054	Thank you very much. For his word, he answered on behalf of the committee president, President Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54055	Thank you very much. Let us once clarify this dilemma about Article 65, therefore, about the obligation and the freeness of education. There was a proposal from the Government that is now and before you that general education is mandatory and free and there is a proposal for a group of representatives to amend the Constitution to introduce in Article 65 the principle that this is an education until the first call is made compulsory and free. The quality working group failed to find a compromise between these two solutions, so I, as co-chair with my colleague Mimic, gave it to you, Mr. Flego, Mrs. Lugaric, the chairman of the Committee on Education and Science, Mr. Peter Selem and Minister of Education Fuchs, to try to find that solution. They held talks, consultations with each other, and at the end of those consultations they came to me with that no solution was found. So, colleague Flego, don't impute me all the time, but I don't know which time I've refused to accept a harmonised solution. I have no motive or interest to remove one harmonised solution between the opposition, between the government, between the ruling party, between the boards, that I do not accept this solution. So there's no reason. Mr. Peter Selem here is alive and well, so make a statement about what you came to me in the end, what kind of solutions you came to me with. You did tell me that after talking on the board, talking to a colleague and a colleague, you didn't come up with a common solution, and then I put the solution further into the discussion on the board. Is it possible now, it is possible to find, but there is no way to find a solution to give up the key position again. The Committee cited the reasons why it is held that under this formula, general education is mandatory and free of charge so that it can be regulated by law and the length of longer insurance than eight years of primary education, so that it does not exclude that laws, when material and other assumptions are reached, resolve the issue and education for which a particular profession is acquired. I don't know how else we could, we couldn't, we couldn't help but solve that opposition by voting. Second, with regard to constitutional judges, the election of constitutional judges. It is true that it was the initiative of a group of MPs who also accepted the ruling coalition and the government to elect the Constitutional Court 2/3 majority. But then came the initiative of the Constitutional Court that if the judges of the Constitutional Court were to choose 2/3 of the majority not to come... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So listen, and besides that, listen means to be taught something. ... It means being taught. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So now I'm going to give you a little presentation on this election of constitutional judges. Why is that 2/3 majority when it is introduced why it is necessary to prevent certain corrective mechanisms from blocking the work of the Constitutional Court or its operation in full in the event that Parliament or another competent authority does not select or appoint a timely judge of the Constitutional Court and has previously expired my term of office. There are strong, multiple-checked European legal standards developed by the Commission for Democracy through Law, the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, which is members of 47 European countries. The Venice Commission proposes that if the new Constitutional Judge or the new Constitutional Judges do not choose in time that there must be a safeguard mechanism that will allow the Constitutional Court to continue to work uninterrupted and have a full quorum and, accordingly, the Venice Commission has accepted the standard by which the Member States of the Council of Europe should provide for the possibility that, due to the institutional stability of the Constitutional Court, the term of office of the Constitutional Court may be extended until the entry into office of the new Judge in the event that a new judge has not been elected by the end of his term of office. The Venice Commission's standard was published in a document by the Venice Commission titled "The composition of the '97 constitutional courts. the year." Document titled "Constituent of Constitutional Courts of '97. the year." I quote: "The rules of choice should provide for the possibility of a non-action of the competent authority and prescribe an extension of the judge's term of office until his or her successor's election." This solution is embedded in the legal order of the countries of Bulgaria, Germany, Portugal and Spain. The lack of such a mechanism was also criticised by the Council of Europe in the case of Italy, and it was also found to be the cause and instability of the Constitutional Court of Hungary when there was no election or termination of the term of office, and the new constitutional judges were not elected. So this is the position of the Venice Commission embedded in that legal standard and incorporated into the four legal solutions of these countries that I have cited. In 2001, the Venice Commission proposed to the Croatian government, the Croatian Parliament, proposed that such a mechanism be installed which is now in question. But in 2002, in the adoption of the Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, it was proposed that the solution and the opinion of the Venice Commission through the rights issued by the expert of the Venice Commission Pierre... not accepted in the amendment of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now the Constitutional Court has again proposed once the two-thirds majority re-proposed it to be introduced by changing the Constitution when the two-thirds majority goes, that there is one mechanism that will ensure the stability of the constitutional judiciary. Just one more illustration. During this entire period from 2001 to 19.11.2002, the Constitutional Court did not act in full composition, 6 years and 11 months and 24 days. Often in many years he acted with fewer judges or 2 years he had fewer judges or one year or a long period of time. So these are the reasons why the parliamentary majority in the draft constitution has gone through the Constitution Committee to install that this position of the Venice Commission is installed so as not to block it simply in a way that when a single wave comes to the end of the term of office of a series of judges of constitutional courts that the Constitutional Court does not remain in the back or even the back of the system. So these are the reasons and I am calling for these reasons, I am giving arguments to both the Venice Commission and these constitutional order of these four European states.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54056	Thank you. We have two corrections. First, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54057	Your Honor, I'm embarrassed to use this institute. I'll make it right first. So, '97. The solution was only Portugal in the year, according to Portugal, otherwise judges chose each other. So 13 judges, 10 elected by Parliament, and the remaining 3 judges alone. I'm asking you one more time, because I'm abusing this institute for a second now. Don't quote things superficially. There are many other things in that account. It's a non-binding '97 opinion. A year. The last sentence of this report says that these criteria are extremely wake, therefore extremely vague and that they are applied from case to case who wants to. Don't end up pulling our own amendment, because it's our amendment because now this kind of intervention is completely insulting and taking away its meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54058	Thank you. Mr. Iron Flego, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54059	Mr. Vice President, of course I wouldn't want to impute if you had refused. But I took part in this, so I testify firsthand that after we talked to you on the 4.2th, we are with the delegate to say so or to the authority you appointed 5.2. we have reached an agreement on how the wording of the Constitution could be read. And two. I ask you to consider, and your entire committee, that on 14th 10th, the parent board on education, science and culture has decided that the proposal made by the Government is not good because of the formulation of general education. And you have that in point 2 of the Committee's conclusion of 14.10. Because general education is a gymnasium education and insistence on general education discriminates between 70 and some of the others, so vocational education. And that's what it says in the board's conclusion from the 14th of last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54060	Excuse me, were you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, he can't replica, he can't fix it, he can hurt the Rules of Procedure. That'll do it. Okay. Here you go. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54061	Mr. President, Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure has been injured in the sense that my colleague Flege's claim does not fully correspond to the truth. Namely, I am like the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and all my colleagues know that just given that science, culture and education are something that must be beyond party opposition. I've always tried to run one policy of agreement, agreement and absolutely avoid any party competition. As far as this particular situation is concerned, I have warned from the beginning that the idea of compulsory education to the first qualification cannot go away because it introduces an insymmetry in terms of compulsory education. As for the concrete work of our small group of colleagues, Flego, colleague Lugarić and I, we have discussed here and we have come to a possible content that I have immediately warned that it is not a constitutional formulation and to leave it to the Constitutional Commission to assess in what sense and to what extent the content that we have drawn in some way can be the fact of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54062	Okay. Let's move on with the debate. It's up to IDS Club and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54063	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Madam Representatives, Ministers. There's a compote in front of us, I don't know how to call it constitutional norms, and as far as we've had before, Europe, but also minority rights. I mean here on this preamble to today's neighbors. When I say relations to the neighbours, then I mean the right of the vote of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina of Croatian nationality, etc. The extradition is being discussed here, the revision of conversion and privatisation. All right, citizen. The position of the Croatian National Bank, you will hear what I think about it. Position of the Croatian National Bank, Constitutional Court, etc., vote by European citizens in local elections etc. Perhaps even more important, not that perhaps, but certainly more important are those solutions that will then be drawn into our laws, etc. etc. But let's take the turn now. Since the agreement between Mr Milanovic and Mrs Kosor or Mrs Kosor and Mr Milanovic, much has happened clearly. In that agreement, I say no one, nor Mrs. Kosor, nor Mr. Milanovic lost, but the question arises who got it. Come on, it's good to vote in those diplomatic representations. They're in Bosnia and Herzegovina if I'm not mistaken for four or five. It's something to praise that went after Mr Milanovic's hand, although I am personally against that so-called. The Croatian diaspora in Bosnia and Herzegovina has three mandates guaranteed in Article 7(2) and they are elected, I quote "in accordance with the law". It is good that in the meantime, those war logs of Martic were announced to see what the policy of the then political leadership towards Bosnia and Herzegovina was like. But to be immediately and unequivocally clear, I am against the fact that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are voting in favour of the Croatian elections at all or voting in a Croatian referendum. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a sovereign state, independent, it is unquestionable, it is an independent state and gentlemen share fate in it. What I respect, what happened in the previous presidential elections, is that the citizens of the Croatian nationality in Bosnia and Herzegovina voted as one for their own, and it might be good to vote that way elsewhere. That's what I admit and I respect. We should say clearly we'll help, but a lot of majority. I agree, one who has Croatian citizenship in Croatia can do anything, but I will be understood by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, here is the Istrians, probably the most isolated in the budget, at least returning, do the Istrians have any ministers? They don't. Do we have one secretary of 150 from the HDZ ranks clearly, one ambassador of 150, one judge of the Constitutional Court, not one head of any agency or any other national institution, has a brother to his brother 150, not one general, there are about 150, not one director of any state firm of 150, etc. So the only real strangers. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I said that we have one Constitutional Court judge, Alda Radolovic, so the only real foreigners in this country are Istrians, so rather than being impertinent, one fixed quota should apply to Istria than to the Herzegovians. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And when I say that, gentlemen, I'm not really kidding, because what I'm saying is true and what I'm saying is one thing really. Here, for example. The Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina will elect three MPs under the Constitution, with a fixed quota of three MPs. How will they choose them? I am 100% sure that they will be elected as Serbs, so if these have the meaning of three MPs in a way that whoever has the vote more, they will take all three mandates. It's neither fair nor fair to the Serbs first, nor fair to this second. This election game, three Serbian votes, with a vote no more without a double right to vote, is, in my opinion, the destruction of democracy, as well as the election of three representatives of Croatian nationality in Bosnia and Herzegovina or the diaspora again with a vote. Why, Mr. Shakespeare, in these constitutional changes, there's no double voting law, so-called. small, small or minority or smaller minorities. It is clear to HDZ that it or such solutions will bring all three mandates, so you will certainly play on that solution. The Church will normally bless all of this, demand even more, but it is important to do so or existing laws, and if it is not installed, punish those who consistently represent exactly national minorities. Here is a moment ago Mr Milanovic also spoke about Fristic, or Mr Fristic's proposal about the new electoral model, I say he is also on the trail of an electoral arithmetic, but I call on all the national representatives, especially the government's gentlemen to raise their hand for a direct election of MPs, because why all of Croatia should be directly elected only the national representatives cannot be directly elected by the people. We can also directly elect the president of the state and mayor of the City of Zagreb, and 20 mayors and 127 mayors, we directly elect 429 mayors, and 5 out of 8 minority representatives, only the national representatives cannot be directly elected by their people. Then why don't we divide Croatia into 120 electoral units, and see whose mother has black fleece. Well, I'm sure the people will. I'm 100% sure the people will. And who won't? Not the elite in this home and in the executive government. That's actually how it is. And why won't you? Because some are afraid that I can't go that way, that the answer is complete. To return to the European Union now, whatever Europe means today. If someone called Europe 20 years ago, then it is IDS, and so am I, today people across this country have cooled down a little bit when it comes to Europe, God and I, today, because of our 90s policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and Europe on Croatia looking at us differently than it did before, today, after the conversion and from Europe, it is different from before the conversion, today I don't know about it after its papal field, tape and Europe looking at Croatia differently than before, etc. But the day before yesterday, that meant 7.6. "Dnevnik", I watch "Dnevnik" and now that spokeswoman, Hungary, says the quality of the negotiations is more urgent than speed. The same day before yesterday means 7.6. Speculation about the collapse of the Eurozone, I don't believe it, because I don't want to be right once again when I'm ordering just when we meet all the conditions then that Europe will fall apart. I would personally like us to withdraw 3 and a half billion euros from Europe in the first two years, but the Bulgarians were hoping so in the first year, or the Romanians do not know exactly now, they withdrew only 7 or 10 million euros, etc. Of course, I'm kidding about how to break up the euro zone, even though it's said in an information show, but never say it again. We need Europe normally because of the euro, because of the financing of foreign debt, because of imports, and I say that the HDZ Europe needs it because they didn't offer anything on the economic plan, okay, and what's the point of all this volunteering to Europe, and that's the best thing that's happened in Slovenia, I think that the ruling party should join elections for the Croatian Parliament sometime in the 4th month 2010, with a referendum on Croatia's accession to the European Union. That's the point I'd say these and constitutional changes. So if these two things match, that's how the president of our board said star matching if that political elite could be held in power again. That's kind of what's said. Therefore, and this set of changes, I would say, concerns exactly the referendum and the European Union, for this reason, Croatia should and gave in to Slovenia in such a way that we de facto gave in 150 square kilometers of territorial waters, so with the privatisation of banks, with the leaving of the market, we import 25 billion euros, we export 10 billion euros. We should have given a piece of the sea, and now we are showing the Slovenian referendum as a Croatian success, and that the Slovenian establishment has not solved any open question, not when it comes to the Ljubljanska Banka, nor when it comes to the occupation of St. Gera, nor when it comes to the construction of roads towards Croatia, nor liberalises the border regime, etc. And I want to believe that, according to my information, this should happen in 6th of July in Buzet, that there, Mr. Presidents Josipovic and Turk may discuss it. It is clear, to be honest, if I were a Slovenian citizen, I would certainly vote for the Slovenian referendum, but if I had been given such an opportunity in Croatia, and therefore we were not given such an opportunity, I would hardly raise my hand for the same referendum. At the audit... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In the case of a revision of the conversion...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I was born in Slovenia, that's all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I'm probably the only one, I went after my hand to distract Racan from paraphrasing those 1 acres around Joras' house, I started a Buzet brewery in Buzet, giving concessions on the Piran Bay. So you see what the others here have done about it. Perhaps today the starting point for the distinction would have been far, far away on the Croatian side if it hadn't been for that. As for the revision of the conversion, we gentlemen can do it as they say, hang the cat on the tail. I'm absolutely in, but it won't be anything. We can't even solve a question like that. tourism land, and where will we address the issue of revision of conversion or privatisation? We continue to allow people to use campes of 100, 200 hectares, normally private capital to pay no one anything, and that for one table per square metre in Poreč, hosts have to pay, I don't know 15 or 17 euros, clearly that they need to be careful there. Because this tourism traffic dropped 15% in the first five months, investments are estimated at no more than a billion kuna last year, 4 billion. Only on that basis did the state lose 700 million kuna of VAT. But who controls this country? I claim the Parliament doesn't, executive authority certainly does. This country is controlled by the executive power and capital. Who owns the media? Well, of course he owns the capital. Who owns monopolys outside of the HEP, Croatian waters etc.? It's owned by capital. Who's got banks? He's got capital. Who has a monopoly on cigarettes? Well, of course he's got capital. Who's got the tourist companies? He's got capital. What can we do? To decide on your menu, perhaps on wages, on the Constitution, the laws will be prepared by the government anyway, so you will only raise the same hand. And I say, if the MPs were to choose directly to change all that directly as well. As far as extradition is concerned, I'm absolutely on a European arrest warrant, but I'd like to know if Gotovina bought a stake in Hydropower with Royce and Ross. Then why are companies publicly raising money for someone's defense if someone owns a hydropower plant? For the end of the preamble, the Slovenes, the Bosniaks return. I've always fought for them, and when the 3rd January coalition changed this constitution and when it changed in '97, '98, but I also think it should suggest that in the spirit of good neighbourly politics and return Croatia restores and those buildings that our own have destroyed outside the war of the occupied area, and we've changed the Law on Mandatory Relations, I think it's an art. 196., so that these people would not simply be able to rebuild as is restored by Croatian authorities what was destroyed by the Storm, etc. For the end, I am opposed to citizens outside Croatia voting for opportunities in Croatia. I agree that to a large extent many of them have owed these premises. Yeah, I'm gonna say it one more time for Europe. Not for territorial concessions, but the point of change is in the following: it means to include a referendum on the EU with elections for the Croatian Parliament, because then it might match up with some stars. Here, that's what my remarks on this constitutional text are. We'll be for this proposal, and we'll see about the Constitution when it just happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54064	Okay, thank you. We have a few corrections. The first is Mr. Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54065	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting all the incorrect allegations of counterpart Caine when he spoke about the BiH diaspora, when he spoke about the elections in Herzegovina, when he spoke about BiH lawmakers. He knows that it is not so, he knows that this law applies and this is all we talk about to Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia. I would say that this really exceeded every measure, colleague Cain. That this is the kind of racism of Damir Caine. He is sentenced to this House, he is sentenced to every normal man in Croatia, and enough is enough. You have trafficked Caine, Damir Kajine has trafficked you into a representative of the division instead of a peacemaker and a closer and order in the Croatian state and the Croatian people, and this is really more unacceptable. And the bribe you keep talking about, some Croatian politics in BiH is a myth and the most common prank you keep repeating even though you know it's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54066	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54067	I want Mr. President to warn Mr. Representative when my presentations qualify for the thesis on racism. Because none of my behavior, none of my spoken word in the last 20 years that I've been in politics can be characterized in that way. Not even when some with a rifle were tearing down the Old Bridge in Mostar, when others were worried that those who were expelled were taking care of it. And a lot of these insults and a lot of these qualifications. Enough!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54068	I ask all MPs and MPs not to generally use difficult words and disqualifications because racism is indeed a difficult qualification and therefore a little, so let's say, let's be a little more moderate in qualifications because we can say the same thing, but a little different words. That's what I'm asking. Furthermore, the correction of Mr. Daniel Srb's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54069	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Cain said in his statement that the basis of this proposal for constitutional change would give the Croats 3 MPs in BiH. Namely, this is incorrect because MPs 3 will have the Croatian diaspora in Toronto, Stutgart, BiH or somewhere else, and regardless of how unacceptable this model for me for Croatia is in the long term and offensive to Croatia's diaspora because it is impossible for us to have three categories of Croatian citizens, those who have dual citizenship are Croatian and Serbian citizens of deluxe categories, and those who have Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina are third-class citizens. It happens in these constitutional changes and it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54070	Thank you. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica, also rectification of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54071	Mr. President, I'm correcting an incorrect allegation, but it's not actually possible to correct a whole series of incorrect allegations made by Mr. Cain. He told HDZ that changes to the Constitution and the European Union only because the government did not offer any economic programme. Mr. Cain, everything you've said is not true, you've used this pay phone for the current political situation, I'm surprised the President of the Parliament didn't correct Mr. Caine in part that he violated the Rules of Procedure. Everything else he said just not specifically about constitutional changes. And in the end, Mr. Cain will be for constitutional change even though he said everything he said here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54072	I'm inclined to interpret and even some ideas that are not exactly in line with the Rules of Procedure, as a kind of creating unrest in the Parliament, so then I'm a little more tolerant in this regard when I chair, although Mrs. Shuica is right, so I'm begging you. Here, no one noticed that Mr. Cain actually challenged our representative Furia Radin to vote in Italy. Well, it's still a precedent here and now what kind of citizens we have, what are those relationships. He challenged the principles of some, I don't know which. Because I assume that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Italians in Croatia or Croats in Italy are in the same status. Especially since they're citizens, and they can be citizens. Here's Mr. Vice President Vladimir Seks to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54073	With pleasure. It is incorrect that both the claim and the untruth of Mr. Kajin that the Croatian arbitration agreement with Slovenia gave or handed over 150 square kilometers of its state territory. Repeated false and false claims by representatives of Kajin, the Croatian Parliament adopted the vast majority of arbitration agreements with Slovenia, so such a false and untrue claim is the least said great inaccuracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54074	Correction Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54075	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your speech, Mr. Cain, you confused citizenship, nationality, speaking of the rights of Croatian citizens to vote in the 11th constituency. I have asked you before from this place and I am doing so and now, that you do not belittle the Croats mostly Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are part of a Croatian people like the Croatians of Istria or the Croats of Slavonia, and that they have found themselves in two countries with historical opportunities, they are not guilty, just as they are not guilty of Croatians from Istria and Croatians from like this. And it would be good in this House to introduce an institute instead of correcting an incorrect allegation, the Institute for repairing the appearance of representatives. Because I've been correcting Mr. Representative a lot of times on this subject, but he can't respect all our corrections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54076	Thank you. Let's move on. I would once again ask for the heavy qualifications of words and the insults heard here to try to prevail, yet this is one serious debate about changing the Constitution and let us be to the level of the right of that high or great task ahead of us. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54077	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It's not easy to talk after Mr. Cain because he'd rather use his entire time to correct incorrect allegations, but then I wouldn't have a chance to say what I mean, so I'll skip and deal with him at the bar if he agrees. So, before us is a proposal to determine the draft amendments to the Constitution. We have so far debated in these two, two and a half hours about the details of the draft changes themselves, although large things have already been agreed in the talks of the president of the two main parties. I think it is good to discuss all this that we have not agreed on and that we will do so by the end of today, if not then until the time of adoption of the Constitution itself and that it is good to discuss it further, and I see that both Mr Seks and Mr Milanovic have come out, so we will also discuss the choice of constitutional judges, and I hope that Article 65 with Mr Selem, I hope that the Law on the Office of the President, we will not discuss sexual orientation, the Law has been passed, and I am deeply convinced that it is absolutely sufficient at the level of European legislative forms. However, instead of these details, I would try to point out the broader framework of what we are discussing today and what we are going to vote on these days. The wider framework is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The interest of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a proposal for the establishment of a draft amendment to the Constitution, to adopt an amendment to this Constitution because Croatia is at a crucial point in its longstanding political activity. This is the moment in which we should show Europe, show the world that we are able to agree within ourselves on those major changes that are defined by the Constitution and in order to join the European Union. So, I pray that in our little reflections that are still left, we never lose sight of this great goal. And that is why I think that this session of the Parliament is one of the more important, but one of those that will certainly be quoted in the future and that is in line for those meetings of the Parliament when we have managed to agree in spite of the different views and make the key decisions that are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. That's how I'd appeal to everyone if we did it today. This session of Parliament has two important qualities for me. One is that we should achieve the highest degree of consensus, the greater consensus because it is the message that is expected of us, the message that our friends are expecting tomorrow in the European Union, our friends who are very much listening to what is happening here today. That agreement may be more necessary today than ever. In the big decisions of the 20-year parliaments, we have not always reached an agreement. There was a lot of thinking, but we still went on. Let's remember a big decision we didn't agree on from the Christmas Constitution in the '90s, through decisions to strip the socialist labels, and then a decision to unify from the countries of the former Yugoslavia. There was no agreement either in the adoption of the ZERP, although it is clear today that it was an important link in the European Union's accession chain. There was no agreement on NATO either, as some asked for a referendum, which would certainly be another possible obstacle on the road. There was no agreement even on arbitration. We know that today's President of the Republic voted against arbitration with Slovenia, today it is quite clear that it was the biggest move that continued Croatia's negotiations to join the European Union and that the Prime Minister insisted on this taking the biggest step in our accession to the European Union. I believe that today and these days these differences will disappear and that when we raise our hands, we will have not the interest of our party, our political group or their interest group, but the interest of the Croatian state. And the interest of the Croatian state is to round up a 20-year policy aimed not only by an independent state, but by a Member State of the European Civilian Group. We decide today, too, and today we prove whether we are up to it or not. I believe that we will have the strength to make such decisions, I believe that we will reconcile these little misunderstandings and I believe that we will send Europe a strong message. Croatia has the strength to overcome internal problems in Europe's interest. And this is a message that today the European Union needs more than ever when it is in a major financial crisis. And what I think is important is the message that Croatia's Europe gets a solid and stable country, a solid and stable democracy, that it gets a rule of law, that it gets a financially stable state, as strange as this may sound in today's times of crisis. But Croatia will contribute to financial stability, and this can be argued by comparing our economic indicators with the countries of the European Union. We are, for example, dissatisfied with our rate of unemployment, of 9.4% and this is indeed a high unemployment rate. But I will remind you that the EU's unemployment rate of 27 countries is higher than ours and is 9.7%. So we have a smaller rate of unemployment, which is the most objective indicator of the EU 27 countries. Europe of course needs such Croatia. We must also say that the government's measures, led by Prime Minister Kosor, Croatia has made a major step in stabilising its state finances. I'll name another comparison that will surprise many. One of the biggest problems is the deficit of the payment agreement. Many European countries are struggling, we have seen Hungary, today we see Greece, tomorrow we hope not but threatens the dangers of Spain, Portugal, Ireland, some mention England as well. Croatia has proved it is able to control its finances. Last year, Croatia's payment budget deficit was lower than Germany's pay deficit. Our deficit last year was 2.9 and Germany 33%. I will remind you of the debt that we carry with us into the European Union, which we talk about so much. Our 44 billion-euro debt is 50% gross domestic product. Do you know what the percentage of Germany's debt is? 72% of their gross domestic product. And with our debt, we are in the middle of a European scale, which proves that Europe does not get a problem with us. Europe is receiving examples of problem solving with us. And I think that we should be proud of it and that many of our particular interests should be subject to one of these messages to Europe, because let's not forget there are still those in Europe who have not decided 100% to raise their hands for Croatian membership. And that's why I think what's left is meaningless problems with what we had. One of the most challenging issues was the vote by Croats outside Croatia. And it is indeed a problem in Croatia that is particularly important for several reasons. One reason is that Croatia is as numerous as the number of citizens in Croatia. One of the few countries that has once more so many residents beyond its borders. The second reason for this is that the emigrated Croatia, as well as the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as another category of Croats living outside their homeland, outside the borders, have contributed in a way to the creation of the Croatian state, by personal participation of themselves, their sons, their daughters, financial contributions, etc. And we also have big obligations to them. In these challenges, which seemed to be the biggest dispute in the reconciliation, a compromise was actually reached, and that is what I consider to be a great success and a great message from Croatian politics. On the one hand, we guaranteed three members of the Croats outside Croatia in the Assembly, which is approximately in line with other countries' solutions. On the other hand, we have put in order and voting modes, so there will be no more objections to the vote of dead souls and that these elections are actually unworthy in that part. I will only mention that similar solutions have other European countries. There's Portugal, there's Italy. For example. Italy elects 12 members of its citizens outside the Upper House border, 6 to the Lower House. When you divide it by the number of members of the Upper and Lower House, then it's about this percentage that we've managed to arrange. They have similar Ireland, there is Poland. So, there are examples like this, and I think it's a quality solution, because it guarantees three MPs in the Assembly from Croatian citizens living outside the borders. And it is one guarantee that is absolutely good for their participation in the creation of all important decisions in the Croatian Parliament. And here we have to say that the problem has been quite politicized. We've never come to this problem from the point of view of who our voters will be. Finally, Croatians from BiH have shown in past presidential elections that they are no longer HDZ voters. So we went objectively towards it. We went with protection of the interests of Croats outside Croatia, of course including, above all, Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a constituent part of the country. If we've solved these big problems, I believe we'll solve the ones that are ahead of us. And that is why I believe that tomorrow we will vote this draft amendment to the Constitution, that we will continue towards the vote of the amendments and that we will show Europe what is most important. He who raises his hand for these proposals has raised his hand for Croatia, he has raised his hand for Europe, he has raised his hand for democracy, he has raised his hand for the rule of law, but has raised his hand for better economic progress and for the development of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that will be enough for the majority in this House and that we will show that we have understood the historical importance of this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54078	Thank you. At 11:19, it's been 10 minutes. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First Mr. Daniel Srb, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54079	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would have corrected two incorrect allegations. The first is that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is the adoption of this proposal of the Constitution. I can accept that it is necessary to amend the Constitution, but not that this proposal is the Constitution because the Constitution is changing without strategy and concepts and will allow in the future a quarter of the total number of Croatian citizens to make decisions on Croatia's future, including association with other states in supranational alliances, which Croatia will also cost. On the other hand, the claim that to raise your hand for this Constitution means to raise your hand for Croatia is not correct because constitutional changes were possible in a different model that would guarantee both sovereignty and independence and economic development in the long term and better life for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54080	Thank you. Second correction, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54081	All right, more or less, we're all for Europe, so let's cool down a little when it comes to Europe, but I agree with Mr Hebrang when he says that Europe in Croatia doesn't get the problem. They got those with Croatia and our business banks, the business assets are almost $400 billion today, so they're making a pretty good living here. They get monopolies, they get the market, but where and who's the problem? We are the problem ourselves, Mr. Hebrang, and not all of the economic data that you have provided or they are only partially accurate, and they are incorrect if it is not mentioned that last year in the first quarter of the gross product fell by 6.8%, that it continued to fall in the first quarter of 2010, which will say that we have 9% worse gross social product than 2008. Tourism dropped about 15% in the first 5 months of this year, investments and investments drastically, trade dropped 15, maybe 20% last year. Number of unemployed...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54082	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54083	The number of employees of the pardon, decreased by 94 thousand, industrial production...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54084	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54085	In the 6th month of this year.../The speaker turned off./... I would sincerely like to have this economic reality of ours one day in this assembly.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54086	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club and the SDA, Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54087	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Two basic understandings in the philosophy of politics, values and meanings of the Constitution in one political community, the older understanding that the Constitution is an expression of the sovereignty of the people and the newer understanding that the Constitution is, in fact, the expression and basic formulation of fundamental human rights and freedoms. Either way we take these two considerations, we will see that they stem from that basic political understanding in European countries and not only in the European countries, that the Constitution is, as Hegel would say, the expression of the many self-determination of the people or the sovereign, that this is a fundamental act of political will of a political community. And precisely because it is the most difficult thing in life for each of us personally, and then, of course, for the community to mentally determine the will or to come to the sense of will or political will, I would say that we have failed in the methodology of adopting these amendments and the entire Constitution, and also in the methodology of public debate somehow to ensure that our Constitution is an expression of this public mind or that political will is really established on the basis of public debate and on the basis of what today in a democratic state, in one democratic community all the participants of public life or that broad forum of mind can say. This is how the impression is obtained, the predecessors said, and publicly admitted, I can say that the media interpretation form was such that this constitution was nevertheless the fruit of Mrs Kosor and Mr Milanovic's agreement and that in some ways it was a compromise solution, the respected predecessor Hebrang also spoke of it. We are aware of the fact that the compromise is an agreement with which both sides are equally satisfied and equally unsatisfactory. However, when we were already considering how to reach compromises in this general will or in some agreement, I think that it was more necessary to look for compromises on certain provisions, such as this on general and compulsory education, or less on voting rights, or less on fixed quotas or some other provisions that have become such a fundamental stumbling block, and then finally here and when we were able to agree or have been able to agree on from the stumbling block, they actually became a cornerstone or a cornerstone of the new constitutional proposal. I don't think that's good, I think this is the idea that the Constitution will be the fruit of bargaining and treatying and that, in a little and pathetic word, swearing in Europe and that this is the expression and some of our European will and European perspectives fall into the water before the fact that it is still about bargaining and contracting that is not ultimately the happiest. It is not the happiest for citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. I think we should have found a solution there anyway, and then, of course, a constitutional formulation, now constitutional, after that, and a legal one that will be long-term, which will remove doubts that will enable our citizens to be in some way a constitutional part of the Republic of Croatia. But on the other hand, here we have, as a compromise I say, equally satisfied and equally unsatisfactory and we have questioned future constitutional laws and future laws that will deal with the election of MPs. So in the end, this compromise can either be interpreted as defeat or at least one compromise which, for a long or long term, did not actually bring what we wanted by compromise. If the number of MPs is reduced, it is certain that this fixed quota will be interpreted differently. So, what I'm saying is, I'm afraid that this compromise variant can, in the ultimations of lines, be the source of new obstacles, new divisions, and also new differences or new stumbling blocks, and then actually this bargaining or contractual approach to the Constitution will be even more pronounced and it will be more clear again that what we've been able to do in the other instance or in the other step we've also managed to lure each other, to target, plant or how differently you want to cheat. I would hate for the constitution to be adopted at any time, so in any of these steps it serves such bargaining, and then, of course, for new disputes. The constitution is always a fundamental constitutional act of a political community, and this is how I feel it won't be constitutional, but it will actually be substituting. So we're gonna trade something for something. That's not good. I think that, if anything else were to look out for possible interpretational media patterns, that it would not really happen to us that, in the end, it would turn out to be Kosor – Milanović's agreement instead of being the expression of the constitution of a political will, one political community, especially because when we talk about the necessity of adoption, when we talk about the dynamics of adoption, when we talk about the urgency of adoption, we are talking about the European perspective of Croatia. The European perspective of Croatia should not begin with any settlement. Whenever it's in history, I don't usually like it that you all know how to go back in time. But whenever we've made any political decision in history for bargaining or contractual reasons, we've always made a mistake. So let us try to think that somehow today, even when we vote, it shows that it is not just a compromise, but that it is something that we are all going to accept. So I'm really calling for the judge's election institute to be considered. We still have time. It certainly will not be good or it is not good to accept an institute or mechanism that any party will be dissatisfied with. And I also think that the proposed provision on general and compulsory education is not good. Ladies and gentlemen, Croatia has no great development opportunities. Education is our only strategic development opportunity. About this formulation, with the existing educational structure of Croatia, with an existing structure I can say the accelerated structure of informal education, extracurricular education, permanent education,... We have absolutely no chance of changing the poor qualifications and education structure of the population. [[The speaker speaks English, doesn't understand.]] And if we do not guarantee it can be formalized, that compulsory education is what includes both basic and education until the first qualification is obtained. Maybe it's not a formula proposed by colleagues from the SDP. If we do not guarantee this, if this is not clear, if it is not clear to all participants in the education system, it is not clear from the adoption of the Constitution that compulsory education means that the person is employed, and this is also the basic document of the European Union according to the society he teaches. So this basic document is now talking about acquiring first competence and first qualification as key in these joint places. So, in the transition from primary school to secondary or secondary to labour markets or from secondary to higher education. So these joint places that are usually the most sensitive actually strengthen these qualifications. And I think that there should be a compromise here again, not because of colleagues from the SDP or not because of the general position that it is necessary to make deals, but because of the future of Croatian, Croatian youth students today. But then, of course, the survival of Croatian society and economy as a whole, because I say again, we do not have long-term development opportunities without changing the qualification structure. Croatia has too many people with only primary school completed, too many who have not finished primary school at all, too many who have only qualifications and who cannot or can hardly be requalified. These are structurally hard-to-work people. Croatia has too few highly educated and, unfortunately, Croatia at the end when you look at the whole, there are too few people who can be requalified today for the labour market and for what the economy needs. So, I would like to advocate it in front of our club, to find a happier formulation, and to make it clear to everyone that compulsory education means acquiring that competence that will make our young man work today, which will allow him not to come out of primary or compulsory education without any qualifications and without being able to get a job anywhere. It has nothing to do with the age limit, not 16 or 18. It doesn't even matter if the primary school lasts eight or nine years. It simply has something to do with what we as a state, as a community we guarantee to a young man in particular, so again to end up being in our unemployed structure that there are far more smaller people than in Europe. So, in our structure of the unemployed, there are just the most from 21 to 24, much more than in European countries. And so if we're already changing that formula, then let's do it. Maybe that first qualification is something that with... Nomotechnically, if you want to end up lexically, the Semantic sound doesn't suit us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it is certainly something that ensures the employment of a person in the long term and ensures the development chances for both young people and individuals as a community as a whole. And finally, I think it is possible to find a happier solution and to choose constitutional judges so that we do not, or to remove from the beginning, the possibility of something that will ever be part of the daily political settlements, then we are going to make a constitutional settlement now rather than negotiate or speculate on a daily level, at a party level, at a block level here in Parliament or anywhere else in society. So, since we've turned that fundamental constitutional act into a substitution act, then I think we need to agree on some more of these details.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54088	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54089	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Looks like we spent most of our passion and our share in the Constitutional Change debate before this place, i.e. Before the Parliament itself, in which we should discuss these changes and adopt them. It's kind of good, it's not good at all, but one thing's for sure, it's good to get some things done before this Parliament, and it's not good not to hear everything in the House. First of all, I would like to say on behalf of the SDSS Club that these constitutional changes are done to improve the text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, to a considerable extent, and in different segments. Secondly, I would like to say that what has happened in the past more than half a year, regardless of the occasional incident character of the debate and the way we have participated in these discussions has contributed significantly to the culture of negotiation on important political issues. And as much as it doesn't seem to matter, I'd like to point out that she's of great importance. No democracy can be serious or mature unless it has developed a culture of negotiation. It's not trade, not guessing, it's a culture of negotiation. And because this culture guarantees that what is agreed and agreed afterwards will remain as a common value and a common position, something that is mutually accepted. And I think it's a good result or a good liquid debate on constitutional changes, so either they or wherever they happen, whether in the working group for the change of the Constitution or in the public or somewhere behind closed doors as they happen. I'd like to list a few points that I consider particularly important. First, it is the issue of the diaspora vote and the issue of a European arrest warrant. In this way Croatia regulates its relationship with neighbouring countries and, above all, with Bosnia and Herzegovina in its own interest, in the interests of the neighbouring country and in the interest of parts of the Croatian people or citizens of the Republic of Croatia living in that country. At the same time, Croatia thus shows that it can be a serious and important guarantee of establishing European legal standards in relations with other countries, and to advocate and strengthen the rule of law in all segments and not as it has been so far the case that, due to unresolved such relations, practically on a daily basis, decisions of Croatian courts can be discredited or the legal order of the Republic of Croatia as well as the legal order of neighbouring countries can be discredited. In this way, the Institute of Double Citizenship, which some people need, was seriously compromised. Which some people represent... the need for a number of reasons, and some represent a means of manipulation, a means of compromise, both citizenship and other. [[You don't understand.]] And I think it's good that these provisions are adopted. Second, as regards the Constitutional Court, the State Judicial Council, the budget, the Ombudsman, in this way strengthens the role of these key judicial institutions in the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand the role of parliamentaryism is strengthened when it comes to the budget and the way in which the budget is adopted. The decision that constitutional judges and budgets are both made to the two-thirds majority is a strong contribution to strengthening parliamentaryism. At the same time, a strong contribution is also made to the serious process of selecting judges from one side and at the same time to the way in which the budget of the Republic of Croatia is adopted, as an important document. As regards the rights of European citizens, as well as the European laws that the Republic of Croatia will adopt or comply with its legislation, therefore European citizens' rights to vote in local elections will undoubtedly strengthen the integration capacity of the Republic of Croatia, its society and strengthen plurality within what we have in Croatian society. And these are the reasons why I believe that this kind of change will also significantly contribute to the improvement of democratic values in Croatia, but also to their integration in a broader democratic context, in the wider democratic system of the European Union. As for minorities that were mentioned today only in the context of the Constitution's preamble, we know that after today's debate on amendments to the Constitution, there will be a debate on amendments to the Constitutional Law and that changes to the Constitutional Law will in a different way regulate the issue of minority voting rights, which will remove any weaknesses that have existed so far and find a solution that will improve minority policy and position and strengthen minority mandates in the Croatian Parliament and political life in Croatia in general. The same applies to the regulation of the status of minority institutions, especially minority self-government institutions organised through minority councils. And here I particularly think of the institutions concerned by the Serb community, which were created during the process of integration of the Serb community, that is, during the process of independence of the Republic of Serbia, such as the Serbian National Council and such as the Joint Council of the municipalities. I'd like to say two more things. In order not to get the impression that we are only bringing these constitutional changes to the conclusion of the negotiations and that we are ready to conclude negotiations with the EU, which is certainly an important, direct task. An important task that needs to be solved as soon as possible and here I agree with both the Prime Minister and the representative of the HDZ Club as well as with everyone else that it is of our important, vital interest. However, there is another thing that should not fall into the other plan when it comes to constitutional changes and the Constitution in particular. It is about strengthening institutions in the Republic of Croatia. An institution that, unfortunately, is still very fragile. Institutions that are still underdeveloped and changed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, these amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, we should at least make at least one significant part of these institutions stronger. In the area of justice, for sure. So, the judicial authorities are absolutely certain. In the field of education, the proposals coming from colleagues when it comes to being open, free, or free of charge education to high school, or including high school, is quite certain to strengthen the institutional capacity of our society as someone here has already spoken before me. The same, of course, is true for strengthening parliamentaryism. As strong as our parliamentaryism seems to have been developed, however strong our Parliament's role seems in Croatia's political life, I would dare say that it doesn't correspond nearly to the facts. The role of our Parliament and the role of parliamentaryism in relation to other centres of political and non-political power in Croatia is still too weak. And for this reason, it seems to me that these constitutional changes should take the opportunity to strengthen parliamentaryism and what is going on with the strengthening of the institutions of parliamentaryism. In the end, I will say something in this place that, although I would like to be heard by more colleagues and colleagues, something I mentioned on the working group for the creation of the Constitution, the new Constitution, the proposal of the Constitution, or constitutional changes. But it didn't find a place in the ears of our colleagues and colleagues. And that's the question, Art. 141., paragraph 2, which reads as follows: "It is prohibited to initiate the association process of the Republic of Croatia in alliances with other countries where association would lead or could lead to the renewal of the Yugoslav state union, i.e. some Balkan state binding in any form." This is the only place in our Constitution in which something is banned and it is prohibited as part of the referendum initiatives, the initiative to launch a referendum or association initiative. If for such a formulation in some period our recent political history or the development of our constitutionality or the development of statehood is any basis today when we bring and adapt our Constitution for the purposes of EU entry, there is no longer any need for such a provision in our Constitution. Just as there are no fears or initiatives of any kind, especially those concerned, so those living in the former Yugoslav space or in the former Balkan space who would have reason to advocate some special separate form of association other than joint association in the EU. The second reason I'd like to say is much more important than this first one, and it concerns ourselves. Is our history really such, and the history of the 20th century and earlier history, such that association is so called. South Slavic or Balkan alliances were the worst in our history to be banned, colleagues and colleagues? Was there nothing in our history in the intervening of this association that was much worse and more drastic than that alliance? This makes it possible for colleagues and colleagues to imply and give the right to those who think it is possible to compromise the values that are seriously compromised to this day by the Croatian democracy and the Croatian state, which are the values of the NDH-zia that they are in some sense apportioned because of such a provision. So we in the Constitution don't find a provision to prohibit the expanse of such values, such policies, such traditions, but we find it necessary to ban the possibility of association in such bindings even though there is no such possibility. For these reasons, colleagues and colleagues, I propose that this provision of Article 141(2) be deleted as a contribution, as a stock, as a contribution to the full European character of our constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54090	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54091	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm forced to react to three incorrect allegations. So the first is that it's about improving the text of the Constitution. No, this is a conceptual deterioration and because this concept of the Constitution is brought new without a strategy, there is no concept and it leaves the principle of equality of all citizens with equal voting rights. So one citizen votes and three categories of different citizens are introduced. Secondly, as regards improving the position of minorities, I think this is a problem of problem and instrumentalising the position of minorities, which will ultimately be felt by the minority itself because it has never been good when they were instrumentalised, and now we already have a situation in Croatia to share money from the state budget on the basis of national belongings and the last concerning the ban on association in Balkan integration. They should very much remain in this Constitution, because exactly insisting on its removal from the Constitution is actually talking about the need for those in the Constitution to remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54092	On behalf of the HNS Club HSU, Madam Representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54093	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, there is a good and valid reason why the Constitution is brought and changed by a two-thirds majority. The constitution is not and must not be a revolutionary act, it must not and is not a radical act, it must be a compromise. The Constitution is a document which must take into account as widely as possible the diversity of views, positions and the right to plead and to express the different views and positions that exist in a single political Corps. For this reason there is this provision, it has also been demonstrated in our talks and in our process of adopting the Constitution that the two-thirds majority is smart and necessary provision because it has reached solutions which in any other arrangement would not be able to reach, but forsaking or dominating anyone in the situation of adoption of the Constitution makes the Constitution by definition more illegal, not only by formal procedures, because they can be defined however you wish but by broad acceptance, as is known, there are several forms of legitimacy, so by the breadth of acceptance and understanding of people that it is one document that includes, in some way, opinions and attitudes with which they can live, therefore, which may not be the most ideal but which they can accept and recognise as such. In these changes we deal with three categories. One amendment to the Constitution that is being adopted for the end of the negotiations. So, because we are able to complete this phase of our entry and full membership into the European Union. I have to say, I'm glad to see that because we have problems that very often we don't have the strength to go to the end of a project that we started. It took us a long time to agree within the country that we wanted to be a country of European profile and political rather than just geographically and that we wanted to be a member of the European Union, it took 14 years to reach a consensus on this, and then we continued the process that was achieved at the beginning only by most, and we came to the end of the process in which many things had to be changed and negotiated, and we have the strength to endure, I hope, that what we started and realized. It will be nice and good when we are a member of the European Union, but as I repeat many times before, it is not our fundamental goal. Our fundamental goal is not membership in the European Union, it is only a consequence, our main goal is to regulate our own country according to some of the standards of the competent state, which is competent to its citizens and which are systematised in some kind of common experience of 27 countries that are currently members of the European Union. And that will be our success. Membership will only be a consequence. The second part of the changes we are going to are those that are necessary for the functioning of Croatia within the European Union, so at the moment we become members of the European Union, some constitutional provisions should be amended in order to function within that European Union, perhaps at least we are talking about it and, as a matter of fact, these are the most radical changes. They are most radical because we are de facto transferring one part of Croatian sovereignty, or if you want one part of the sovereignty of this Parliament's decision to the European Union. When I get to that, I'll remind you of that article about it. Strangely, we haven't talked much about it, although it must have been constitutionally viewed as the most radical change in the constitution of our country. In the talks on these two aspects of change, therefore, those necessary for the end of the negotiations and those necessary for the functioning of Croatia within the European Union, there was almost no dispute. We have very quickly achieved a level and greater than two-thirds in this House. Changes in which there have been slow changes and at this point there are still third groups of changes, which are those changes that change or if you want to and raise the standards of the functioning of individual Croatian institutions. There was the most disagreement and the most reluctance. This is strictly not the changes that were necessary for the conclusion of the negotiations either for the operation of Croatia's formally viewed within the European Union, but are necessary for the achievement of that original goal, which is to regulate Croatia's state by the standards of the competent state, a state that operates so that institutions have legitimacy recognises diversity, while at the same time the need for equal criteria and the protection of political will expressed in Croatia. So it has something to do with what we have entered into the process of whose subsequent appearance will be membership in the European Union, whose real result will be one decent state, so a modern state in which the rules are known. And if we have any luck and perseverance and respect. Many of the things outlined in this proposal are positive shifts in the opinion of the HNS-HSU club. The fact that minorities are, for example, listed in the preamble of course will not change anything, but it is a sign of respect. A sign of respect for a whole series of national minorities who have not been or at some point been expelled from that preamble, and that's good. We believe that this is good because it means respecting national minorities is the common goal of every mature and just state. The promotions relating to the decision on the Armed Forces either ours, whether allied outside our borders, or within our borders, which now include the mandatory opinion of the High Commander of the Armed Forces, which is certainly the president of the state's positive shift. The provision is also amended, i.e. the pag we have so far had to regulate the validity of the referendum. In most cases, the threshold was very, very high, and in one case, and it is also referring to a referendum on membership in the European Union, which has been inaccessible in practice. One of the reasons he was unattainable is the fact that we don't have a clear list of voters. What this draft solves, or proposes to resolve, is liberalising the conditions as far as the referendum is concerned, so I am deciding most of the votes of the people who went to the referendum no matter how many people go to the referendum, so how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia go to the referendum. At this point, of course, it makes the whole thing easier, we support it. But at this point, that figure seems prohibitive, the percentage is 10%, but the percentage is 10% of what it says on the uncleaned voter lists. Lists of voters where there are 400 thousand non-existents, and according to the assessment of international experts exposed in this House and up to 900 thousand non-existent people. And if you have such non-existent voters' lists, then of course the figure of 10% is prohibitive because it's not 10% anymore, but de facto of the really existing voters it's probably 12 and 13 and maybe 15%. Therefore, in order for such provisions on the referendum to stand, an integral part of the solution to the whole problem must be to clear the list of voters, although of course it is not constitutional matter, but it is very close to what is determined in this new regulation of the validity of the referendum. A further point for us is important and we think a positive shift is the responsibility of the occupier and the extension of the occupier's competence, which we consider to be the experience so far both with work and with the quality of the work of this institute is a positive shift and good that it has entered this draft. There is also a lot of debate on education and whether the Constitution regulates education until the first qualification. There is no doubt, of course, that education and educated people are our most valuable resource. The question here is whether it is formally and in what way it is arranged by the Constitution and it would be good to reach some kind of compromise on the subject as well. The positive shift is also the half-size for budgeting. No doubt. Some of these provisions refer to the quality of the judiciary. They're very gentle here. We know it's our key problem. And right now, I'm standing in front of probably roughly a hundred or 80 tasks and a little over 20 different criteria that we're going to have to carry out at a lower level than the constitutional level to guarantee the quality of the judiciary. But I also want to say something about which has been debated, which is the vote of the Republic of Croatia without residence in the Republic of Croatia. The solution that has been reached is not clear. There's no doubt. It's not a clear view of it, it's a compromise position. But since, as I said, it is wise that the Constitution is adopted by a two-thirds majority because it must respect and direct people towards compromise and respect different political views, a compromise has been reached that people who do not live under Croatian laws and do not have a residence in the Croatian Parliament and other words are not concerned by those laws that the Croatian Parliament makes, that the risk of changing the political will expressed in Croatia is not removed, but is minimalised by a quota of three MPs and by voting in diplomatic consular representations. I repeat, the solution is not ideal, it's not clean, it's compromiseable, but it's better than the existing one. As for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina in particular, all indications are that they had nothing, perhaps a few politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the people had nothing and that Croatia's obligation is, I agree, to really change politics towards the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and of course towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. Finally, what remains is the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. It is in the opinion of the HNS and HSU club the only point that is important, which will now be decided to support this draft or not. We can't support an arrangement where the people chosen...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54094	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54095	For constitutional judges, they can stay over their mandate if the 2/3 majority cannot agree on new judges. In that case, these people shall be suspended and the Constitutional Court shall, by agreement, work either in the back of the system or the time period shall be limited to 3 or 6 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54096	Bring the end. Your time is up, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54097	I will, Vice President. Therefore, unless the time limit is limited to 3 to 6 months, the possibility of people whose term of office has expired sitting in the Constitutional Court and being constitutional judges even though they are no longer, the HNS-HSU will not support this draft because it considers it to be a delegation of the Constitutional Court's institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54098	Thank you very much. So, distinguished MPs and MPs, since we still have two clubs, and we have 23 individual debates, the proposal is to work without a break to bring this debate to an end today, so, you know, there won't be a break, we'll continue to work in continuity. And now it is up to the honourable representative Boro Grubisic...... And I'm sorry, it wasn't said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. Correction of incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54099	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Pusic said all the indicators so far were such that the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina had nothing to do with their voting for the Croatian Parliament. I don't know what all the indicators are, but I think that claim is basically incorrect and absolutely not standing because it doesn't go first of all from whether anyone has benefit or has nothing to vote on, which participates rather than whether it has the right to do so or not. That's number one. Number two, so there could also be a question of how much benefit Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina could benefit from voting in Bosnia and Herzegovina because they unfortunately do not have equal rights there. But that question cannot be asked, nor can it be compared. On the other hand, it is absolutely incorrect because many projects that are of the vital national interest of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are encouraged among other things by representatives elected to the 11th constituency, i.e. representatives of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54100	Thank you. Now it is on behalf of the HDSSB club, the distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Here is a proposal for a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The HDSB was called for talks in the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with representatives of other parties, including Mr. Serbs with whom I once participated from the party's rights and with whom we had some similar thoughts regarding the change in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for which the HDSB expressed its principled willingness to support the announced constitutional changes. However, this principled readiness is conditioned by extending the scope of constitutional changes to the area of reform of the administrative territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. So it is clear to us, and we are also to say one of the parties that is seeking Croatia's entry into the European Union, but as a country which has been regulated so far before that entry and the state that has resolved its Constitution and in the long term everything that has been either unregulated or completely unclear. So when we look at what we have proposed and the draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then we see that there is actually not a single word in this about what we are talking about, I don't say the proposals, so in the discussions why we advocated. And that is to introduce or introduce the regional structure of the Republic of Croatia in constitutional provisions or articles, then reduce the number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, despite the fact that we have insisted or suggested that the Parliament be a two-domean, with the House of Representatives having or there is a home of the region. So the total number of MPs we advocated was from the current 153 to 126. The home of the region, as we called it in the Croatian Parliament or the home of the Croatian Parliament region, would remove all the shortcomings of the earlier county home. It would contribute to the political, even and coherent development of the Republic of Croatia, so all regions, all parts of the Republic of Croatia. Now we have witnessed in recent days that many are waving exactly what we were up to five years ago, which is precisely this regional structure, five regions or four regions and the City of Zagreb. But it also seems to me from today's speeches here that it is actually more of a concern for the amendments to the Election Law to ensure that these new reconstructions are provided by some parties with majorisation in these regions. So more care is being taken about it, so the party's number of MPs than how Croatia will be divided so administratively into the region. And that's actually one perfidious, ultimate goal of those who wave now at the idea of regionalism. In the new, in this draft change the Constitution has nothing to do with it. What was controversial or contentious throughout the talks and agreements is to say the quota and way of voting the diaspora, although I personally do not consider the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina a diaspora. They are there almost I would say as long from the seventh century as Croatians in Croatia, if not before. Diaspora in Germany, diaspora in America, diaspora in New Zealand and Australia, diaspora without any quotes. And in those conversations, we have to tell a little secret. I heard from the left side that they don't agree to more than one or two MPs for that total diaspora. And here it came from number five in this convocation to the number three MPs. In 1995, during the war, while Bosnian-Herzegovina warriors were at war and on Croatian battlefields were 12. To vote in consular and diplomatic representations, I really don't know how much left when someone here mentions the number of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and four or five represent consular-diplomatic. It would turn out that every voter has one second to vote during the day of 7 to 19 hours. Coming, voting and leaving. Is that equality under the law and the Constitution? Did we create another category of citizens of our citizens? Have we somehow divided the Croats into those who have the opportunity to vote as much as they will and when they will and the others who are really here must hold a vote in a second, and only traveling maybe hundreds of miles to the diplomatic consular representation of the Republic of Croatia in another country. I am not only talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also Croatians in Germany, Croats in Australia where they may be in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth where they already have exactly, pardon Canberra Embassy of the Republic of Croatia. You think they're gonna travel 500 miles to get someone to vote? When we look at the proposals for these amendments, then it is a very interesting article on the right of citizens of the European Union to vote actively and passively in favour of local administration and self-government. So someone from Germany or Spain settles here, gets a place of residence and has the right to vote exclusively as a citizen of the European Union in local elections. Given the potential to say imports under the allegations of labour force and already the presence of many other inhabitants of Croatia who have residence in Croatia and in the overseas countries of Asia, etc. Are they discriminated against the citizens of the European Union? Are these non-European citizens living here being discriminated against by this proposal of our Constitution? Whether they have the right to vote locally for local administration and self-government actively or passively. So be chosen and choose. Let me explain what's active and passive. Furthermore, someone here mentioned that the time had come to throw the word "no" out of the Constitution, which referred to Article 141b. the current Constitution, the present Constitution, which prohibits association with the republics of the former Yugoslavia in any association, and given this comment, I did not report for correcting the incorrect allegations because it is just an opinion, not an incorrect quote. I would say, and what has stopped is to change that provision. Is that something new? Are there any examples of the state in the former Yugoslavia that Croatia would love to rush into association? And what countries are these if they are such a model of a regulated state? What would change that provision for? We are here today, above all, with the aim of regulating the Constitution so that we can join the European Union, not some Balkan association. And one more thing. It is, therefore, a referendum on which the HDSSB has taken its stand and we believe that, given the honey and milk that is flowing there, where we are flocking, and the unregulated can also be discussed that the quota that citizens declare to enter the referendum, so to join the European Union and bring it down but not in this way. Not half of the total voters on the polls. This really means that 25% of Croatian citizens can decide on the fate of the Republic of Croatia to enter or not enter the European Union. What's that for? When Montenegro separated from Serbia from the SCG community then it took 55% of Montenegrin voters to say it would stand out or not stand out. Why we as a representative body, the most representative body in the Republic of Croatia in this country cannot adopt a certain different or different opinion. Here I am going to expose it, which is that a 2/3 of all voters, but a regulated list and lists, should be released to a referendum for entry into the European Union. Mrs. Pusic, don't laugh. You talked about it a little while ago, but a regulated list of voters, not the 4900 you were talking about. Or that it is a referendum of a total voter voter in a referendum for a 2/3 or 66%, then it is a referendum, then we can indeed admit and say that the referendum has succeeded when citizens who are so happy to enter and rush and wave the European Union flags are flocking to the European Union by voting for entry into the European Union. And who's afraid of Mrs. Pusic's referendum? Who's afraid of the referendum? Why does the criteria come down to the referendum? For what? For what? Why didn't you insist on setting up the voter lists so far? What does the State Election Commission do in the list of voters? 4 and 900 Croatia numbers by the last census, 4 million and 350 thousand, of which children and young preschool age, are adolescence 500, 600 thousand. So no one asked, and neither did you of the opposition, wherefore such a list of voters, and why did the State Election Commission, which was responsible for the list of voters, carry out its task. Therefore, I believe that no one is seriously considering what we have exposed, which is that Croatia is finally regionalising, decentralisation, fiscally in particular, that the units of regional self-government remain more money for their projects, and that this is constitutionally to say verification, the HDSSB for this proposal for a draft constitutional change, unfortunately, cannot be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54102	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It refers to the fact that no one insists and insists on clearing the voter list. That really is not true, colleague Grubisic. We insisted, and I myself, so many times and so many times already seemed to have climbed all of us to the top of my head to clear that list of voters because we really believe that this has been delegated to a large extent and the results of the election. So that is not true, and by the way, only to say 55% in the referendum in Montenegro did not invent Montenegrins, it was imposed on them by the European Union, i.e. in particular today's so-called "colloquitically". Most of it's bacon. They did not impose it on themselves, but they imposed it on them from the outside, and they were able to win by it. So we decide for ourselves, and we won't be forced.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54104	Thank you. No controversy in the benches, Your Honor. It is the turn of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54105	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The constitutional changes we have been making to join the European Union have been the subject of many debates for some time, and some of the proposals that seek to reach a necessary compromise are causing recommendations, not only among political parties, but also citizens. But if we want to become members of the European Union, these different views on some issues must be overcome in a way that will allow for the completion of the process, which we have started together and which ultimately expect from us Croatian citizens. We therefore welcome every compromise that is on the trail of an acceptable solution for all, so that we do not find ourselves blocking ourselves because of the formation of a particular position. Membership in the European Union, because of its way of functioning, requires the adjustment that must be made to the Constitution and therefore we have joined this process, which requires first and foremost responsibility in defining and discussing the draft amendments to the Constitution. Other countries that became members of the European Union also had to go through the process sooner or later, in order to adapt to the new circumstances resulting from integration processes. I believe that this proposal that we are discussing today is on the right track to do what we have to do and what we have to do and what we expect to do. The proposal to identify the draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with issues to be defined for the purpose of joining the European Union also covers issues that need to be properly addressed in view of the already changed circumstances such as NATO accession. Thus, the amendment of Article 7 necessary for the membership of the Republic of Croatia in NATO, on the basis of which it has undertaken to protect another Member State if it is attacked, would in this case be mandatory for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to protect the sovereignty and independence of the affected country. Furthermore, the existing constitutional provision of Article 9 does not allow the extradition of Croatian citizens to other countries and therefore constitutes an obstacle to the execution of the European arrest warrant. In this regard, the introduction of a European arrest warrant will open up new criminal penalties, regardless of where the suspect is located, and means handing over persons to another country already at the time when a criminal case is brought against him with one of the 32 crimes listed in the warrant, such as terrorism, racism, trafficking in human beings, corruption, serious murder or drug trafficking. Adding a new paragraph of Article 38 will guarantee citizens the right to access information owned by public authorities, which will contribute to the transparency of their work and openness towards citizens, which is a prerequisite for fighting corruption, and is also important for curbing the so-called The silence of bureaucracy. Article 45 of the last months seems to have become the most famous article of the Constitution, almost everyone knows that it refers to the electoral right and the proposed formulation achieves a consensus between different views on how this right to provide voters who do not have a place of residence in the Republic of Croatia. Some issues of constitutional law have already emerged during the negotiation process, as an integral part of individual negotiating chapters, such as the issue of the position of the Croatian National Bank. Namely, the integration process requires the Republic of Croatia to organise and position the Croatian National Bank in the context of harmonisation with the acquis, in order to ensure its full independence and to enable integration into the European System of Central Banks. The issue of the independent position of the State Audit Office as the most audit institution in the Republic of Croatia should also be addressed. The proposal sees a desire to strengthen the position of the Ombudsman, as well as the independent positions of the State Judicial Council, and the State Attorney's Council of any influence of the executive and legislative authority. We welcome what has been taken into account when considering the necessary changes and about Croatian citizens who have some kind of disability and have proposed a correction of the current formulation, which respects the terms that highlight the person, rather than its disability, in the first place. The amendment of Article 65 reflects the life reality of education, and it is necessary to formulate it in a way that is in line with the real situation and the changes that we can expect in this area, which are looking for trends. According to the existing constitutional provision for a positive outcome of the referendum, a very strict majority is required, or a majority of the vote of all voters in the country. This means that any non-referencing to a referendum and a vote against which, in the event of a referendum being organised on the basis of an existing constitutional provision, the referendum might call into question the actual voting will of the constituency of the electorate. EU membership also includes the transfer of certain constitutional powers to EU institutions. Direct legal effect and application of EU law and guaranteeing certain rights for EU citizens in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Thus, it is necessary to provide for a legal framework for the exercise of EU citizens' rights in local and regional self-government, since the Treaty establishing the European Community guarantees them an active and passive electoral right at local level in the EU Member States they are staying in and are not nationals of that country. As regards the sources of law in the EU, they include founding contracts, but also legal rules such as regulations, directives or decisions taken by EU institutions on the basis of founding contracts, which may be referred to by parties in judicial proceedings as the source of subjective rights. It is therefore necessary to give the courts a constitutional basis to apply EU law directly. There is no doubt that it is necessary to approach the constitutional changes that are necessary to complete this long process of preparing and adapting the legal, economic and administrative system of accession to Croatia's EU membership. From all this above, the HSS Club will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54106	Thank you. We've finished discussing clubs and we're moving on to an individual debate for 10 minutes. The first reported is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is changing its Constitution today and in its last, in this last time, in this process the changes of the eyes of the public are therefore opposed to the Croatian Parliament first and foremost. We have also seen this out of great interest, which is quite understandable, because when the Constitution of any country changes, it causes general attention. When it comes to amendments to the Constitution, then perhaps it is time to remember and remind ourselves how our Constitution is applied. Are the provisions that should not be fundamentally controversial also controversial? In fact, Croatia is in its own, Croatia is also defined in Article 1 of our Constitution as a social state. How do these standards apply? How are the basic principles of the Constitution elaborated? That's a big question. Because unfortunately, Croatia has been less and less social since all these years, unfortunately since the moment we defined it as a social state. Will Croatia eventually become a country of social cases, not a social state? This is the time to remember, especially never like today and at this time of time, the provisions of Article 54, 55, which are indisputable to us all, and concerning work and man. Everyone has the right to work and the freedom to work stands in our article 54. In Article 55, each employee has the right to earn a living free and worthy of his or her family. Every employee has the right to a week's vacation and paid vacation and these rights cannot be waived. These rights are still regulated by law and collective agreement. We see that all of these rights are in great danger today, and that all of us need to be concerned together and see, therefore, about the change of the Constitution and later the law, and above all, about our practice of what is to be done here. In fact, the old Latins spoke the lab omnia vincit – the work wins everything. Let's not let the work be defeated. And here's the moment, I say, to remind ourselves of that. All issues of fundamental importance to each of our citizens are governed by the Constitution, fundamental rights and human freedoms. And in order for it to be realized at all, we need independent judicial authority. We need a judge who's been educated, who knows. Because the old Latins were talking about a judge who doesn't know the accident is for the party. So I believe that there is a political consensus that the situation in the judiciary is improved, to a greater extent to achieve the independence and expertise of the judiciary. Therefore, the provision, i.e. the joint proposal to submit an annual report to Parliament, should not be seen as an attack but as just one proposal to strengthen the judicial authority. However, as it is indeed sensitive issues, these issues should also be clarified that they do not challenge those who have just applied the law and who are first invited to the Republic of Croatia because it was also given to them by the Constitution and the law to protect human rights, to decide on fundamental human values, on his honor, on his freedom, on his property. And these are just the judges, it's the Fate Authority in general. Perhaps because this would not cause some recommendations in the judicial authority, because to really achieve consensus and to achieve human rights, it takes consent as much as those authorities separately need to agree on both executive and legislative, but also judicial authorities. And in order to remove any opposition that has arisen in the judicial authority, so that it would be debated in parliament or anywhere else about any individual cases is really out of the question, but if such a threat were removed, perhaps that the corruption is just said in a way that the President of the Supreme Court appointed by the Croatian Parliament informs the public in the Croatian Parliament of the work of the judicial authority. So other branches of authorities that are obliged to assist the state government not only in terms of budget and demand and the necessary means to work but also in the adoption of laws, which is the fact that it is blocking the judicial authority of its ineffectiveness, I think that in such a way all the recommendations will be declassified. The second issue that is very important concerns the composition of the State Judicial Council. We know that ever since the State Judiciary Council came into existence, it has caused no matter what the composition of their decision was caused by a lot of opposition in public. On the other hand, since the establishment of a state-run lawyer's council in this configuration, there has been no objection decision. That is why the model, therefore, was also managed by the proposings, that this particular model, which is appropriate for the State Attorney's Council, should be applied to the State Judicial Council. The observations and proposals of the judges, I would say one part, point out the fearsome influence of politics, because in the State Judiciary Council there would be one representative of the ruling and one representative of the opposition from the MPs. Such an objection does not stand, because I do not think there is a country in the world in which practically the judicial authority chooses itself as we have made it possible. And in the end, it doesn't matter who names whom, who chooses whom because someone can always name and choose, the problem arises when there are no criteria, transparency and calculation which are the fundamental values of good government and good of every branch of government. So when there are candidates, when the candidate knows in advance that he will be elected because he is the best candidate, because there are objective criteria and criteria and not that it depends on what kind of structure is in power and what is the political combination in that. Whether we're far from it or we're getting closer to it. And the public has the right to know why a good judge hasn't been appointed, why he hasn't made progress, why the best judges are almost hated by their colleagues. Why move a judge with 100% norm, that's what the public wants to know. Because the public has the right to an independent judge because it is a fundamental human right, independence and all the rights given to this independence do not exist for the sake of the judge and the court but exist for the sake of man, his right. Because every one of us wants to be judged by a judge in his legal affairs who is not under any kind of pressure, not just politically but by any other, who can be even worse and more dangerous, and any pressure on the judiciary is always at the very beginning and ultimately dangerous. That is why we consider it a consensus that such a tried-out model that we have here and practice with the State's Attorney's Council is simply reflected on the state's judicial council, because in other models, even executive powers directly by the Prime Ministers, or the President of the State name judges in one way or another. We avoided it. Such solutions, which have caused opposition to the public’s expertise, should not perhaps be apologeticly rejected but should discuss and resolve such disagreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54108	Thank you. We have one correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic said Croatia is increasingly a less social state. This is incorrect because your colleagues can remind you that in the position of the Ministry of Health and Social Care there are no reduced funds in this regard. That's the first one. And secondly, if we're going to really remember these circumstances, then it's necessary to remember your times as the coalition authorities who have denied many social rights. So that we are not talking about Croatian wartime disabled people with reduced pensions of 8 to 20%, and then illegal proceedings were conducted to repeal the solution of Croatian military disabled people, 4280 cases. Let's just mention the maternity benefits and the rest, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54110	No benching, please. We have one replica, distinguished representative Daniel Srb, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In her presentation, she spoke about the fundamental values of the Constitution defined through the existing amendments to the Constitution, so I would say that these constitutional changes are practically leaving the fundamental one democratic principle of equality of all citizens, because after the change of this Constitution three categories of Croatian citizens are being introduced. The first category would include representatives of national minorities who would be entitled to two votes. The second category of Croatian citizens will be Croatian citizens with residence in the Republic of Croatia, and the third category may say maliciously, third-rate Croatian citizens will be those with Croatian citizenship without residence in the Republic of Croatia, whether they live in Munich, Sydney or somewhere else in the United States. Unfortunately, they will have such a situation that they will arrive in front of diplomatic consular offices before the election to camp at the door to, for example, 40,000 Croatian citizens living in Munich through diplomatic consular representation, and we know that the physical possibility of a maximum vote is 3,000 voters. So one part of the Croatian electoral body is limited to the right to vote in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54112	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54113	There is no fellow fear of any categorization of our citizens as a room, because there is no fear in tourism. One majority who is sure of themselves and what it does never fear the minority, it's just her strength, not her weakness. As far as these other things you've been saying that our citizens, given where they live, would simply be people of the first or second category, it also does not stand especially with regard to not voting rights. It is itself the fact that it is voted in consular representations, i.e. in consular offices, even on ships that are not excluded, it does not lead to any unfavourable position. Especially with the existing condition we had. So it wasn't a rare case. I personally not only listened but also drove one woman, she told me where she was going. That she voted in Bosnia and Herzegovina this morning and Sunday afternoon. I was driving her... And she's saying, I went to vote. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] I asked her, so how can you do that? And she says, "I can because nobody forbids me." So, I'm not even saying I'm going to say that such cases have been many, but they've greatly disgraced Croatia. And we don't need that. And I think if we've reached a consensus on this, we shouldn't make any political points on it. A team before that place if it is recommended will find ways and through the law to possibly react to...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54114	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54115	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Let me wait for this noise to stop in the hall. Now they will. Thank you very much. The first thing I want to say is that from the contents of the constitutional changes to the special new chapter 7 after these constitutional changes are adopted, it turns out that Croatia is already a member of the European Union, although these provisions only take effect with Croatia's entry into the European Union. We're the Constitution prepared as if one already a member. And now, of course, someone will say, no more should most of the total number of voters vote for Croatia's entry into the European Union. Not even most voters or citizens with voting rights need to go to a referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union, because it is enough for most of the votes cast on entering the European Union. However, are you so sure that such a European referendum, beheaded, cannot bring a surprise. So, what if the citizens decide not to go to the European Union in a referendum, what about those parts of the Constitution? Or we will repeat the referendum for so long until we have exhausted the citizens and yet it will make that decision. I think my proposal I repeat it twice on these constitutional changes to issue a referendum, and also rejected by the ruling and opposition would be a good test of the voter's mood to enter and prepare Croatia for entry into the European Union. But it was not an important topic, it was not much to talk about, but we kept the Croatian public in great expectation for two, three weeks about the agreement between the ruling and the opposition on the diaspora. When she will vote, where she will vote, how many mandates she will have and the entire debate in the Croatian public on constitutional changes has come down to three MPs, a fixed quota and polling stations, as if that were the most important at the moment. And then they announced we're going to a fixed quota and three representatives of the diaspora. And of course, immediately the idea of reducing the total number of MPs was born to balance relations 5 to 150 or 3 to 100 MPs and that was to be expected. Even here today, it was said that the rest of the electoral model we have is good and that the electoral units comply with the provisions of the law, Mr. Minister, you will remember that, that the number of voters per constituency should not be greater plus minus 5%. And according to the voters list, the difference between the smallest and the largest is not 5% but 23%. So, even the current election units do not match the number of voters, do not comply with the Law on selecting MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Of course, the list of voters as the basic act is one of the most important ones for the regularity of the election, and in order for it to be well arranged then, of course, the Law on residence is the key to everything. By the way, where did he go? What about the new residence law? Somewhere in a procedure in someone's attic or drawer. Of course, I will also express my dissatisfaction with the fact that the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council will no longer be elected in the Assembly, and he doesn't know what it will be like because it is left to special laws. But they all agreed, so let them be, but once you've already given up two-thirds of the majority of the decision, you go to the common majority, sooner or later they'll go back to those who agreed to it. Let's go back to the referendum now. Article 141 requested the decision of most of the total number of voters, and we are unreasonablely returning. Article 86 speaks of a state referendum which has a provision in it that it is valid if more than half of the voters come to it. Now it's wiped out. But watch out, there is a provision in article 86 that, if citizens want to demand a referendum, that request must be signed by 10% of voters, 450 thousand people. I would like to remind you that under the Law on Local Self-Government, local citizens' referendum can cause even 20% of voters' signatures, state by 10%, local with 20. Such a constitutional provision means that 77 MPs call a referendum and it is enough for 77 of them to go to the referendum and 39 votes in favour and the decision has been made. But if it happens to the citizens of Croatia to seek a referendum then it must require 450 thousand, then the referendum is called but it is valid enough for a thousand voters to come out. What a decision there will be is another matter. And now I'm asking, if we democratisation the processes in Croatia, if we trust the citizens, why don't we bring these 10% down to 2%. In some Member States of the European Union, it is 1% of the electoral body and I have therefore submitted an amendment to Article 14 of the amendments relating to Article 86. The constitution with the proposal to replace 10% of voters with 2% of voters because I think it is reasonable, a large enough number of voters who have the right to request a referendum from the Croatian Parliament. Unless this amendment will be accepted as a representative of the Croatian Labour Party, I will not vote for the Draft Amendment of the Constitution. I won't. And now two more things the Constitution doesn't have. A life situation, which could have been resolved by constitutional changes, which are not pleasant for us at all, refers to the mandate of a parliamentary representative. We have a case that the representative of the Croatian Parliament is on the run before the Croatian judiciary. No one can deny his mandate, he receives full pay, but since he is on the run, he cannot carry out his parliamentary duty. Whether this is the experience we've experienced and we've never been able to put it in the Constitution before, it's come to our senses that we enter into the Constitution and give a solution to such cases, or it has to happen ten times in order to solve it. And secondly, the article, and since I didn't participate in these arrangements, it's a good thing I didn't, Article 55. The Constitution is not subject to change, so I cannot intervene on it by amendment, but in Article 55. The constitution is written that employees have the right to earn, not on wages, but on earnings. Profit and wages are not the same thing and in no other law after the Constitution the word profit is not used but is paid and pays is the basis of everything, from the tax system, all rights in labour and social legislation to collective agreements. Shouldn't it be finally time for the Constitution to write that employees in Croatia have the right to pay because profit is also realised outside of employment, outside of the contract of employment, outside of collective contract, outside of the Labour Act, but also to add, of course, employees have the right to pay employees their wages as well. I think it would then be a preamble and Article 1 if I were not wrong with the Constitution on Croatia as a social state, so that the Constitution would use the word pay for employees because this article 55 speaks about employees, so that there should be a salary not only for employees but also for employers to pay their salaries. I am sorry that I cannot intervene with the amendment to Article 55 because it is not the subject of constitutional changes. Those who know how to do this, who conduct negotiations and write the final text, are not too late that in the Croatian Constitution when we do not already have the word worker in the Croatian Constitution, the word worker in the Croatian Constitution does not exist that at least there is a right to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54116	Thank you. There's a replica, Mr. Agent Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Lesar, you spoke of the referendum in your presentation, and I believe that this is the way the Constitution changes the essence of the Christmas Constitution, which has changed the truth several times, but its concept has so far remained, a referendum was needed. But when it comes to Article 141, therefore, this one protection mechanism from Croatia's entry into some integration processes must remain absolutely in the opinion of the Croatian Party, because here we have also had the opportunity to hear ideas here today about removing paragraph 2 from this article which prohibits entry into Balkan integration, Yugoslav or something. Therefore, a desire for Croatia's entry into new Balkan integration was made open from this pay phone. And that is precisely why Croatia must be protected from avoiding Croatian citizens' will in a referendum on such important issues, and that is why this safeguard clause should remain that it is possible to make a decision to enter transnational integration only if more than 50% of Croatian citizens vote for it. It has to stay the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54118	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54119	Comrade Serbs, I must first express my satisfaction that I am no longer the only one who feels that these constitutional changes should be the subject of the referendum and I am glad that you said so now. There's two of us now. It'll probably just be the two of us for that, but let's. My reasons for proposing a referendum are similar but not until the end and yours. So that article 141 that is radically changing, but also Article 86, which also speaks about the referendum because citizens are not fully familiar with the content of constitutional changes nor will it be so long to know the Croatian public, perhaps it would be very healthy for Croatian academics to participate in the debate on constitutional changes, writers, artists, the elite of the Croatian people who have been silent since the first day of the constitutional changes. But what is terribly important, part of the Constitution relating to the European Union and the Croatian position in the European Union would be ideal in front of a referendum when really citizens will be able to decide whether or not we are going to the European Union and with what content of the accession treaty. But we're not going to get a referendum just so you and I can do it five times.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54120	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54121	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Constitutional changes and their adoption coincide with the final process of Croatia's accession to full membership in the European Union, and that fact legitimateises us as an orderly democratic state. Because, as we heard this morning, the President of the Croatian Government said that after the constitutional changes, we still have 14 laws to comply with the legal acquis of the European Union, and thus we have completed that legislative part that was needed to meet the conditions for the Republic of Croatia to join full membership in the European Union. In my debate, I would refer mainly to those constitutional provisions which or which we less discussed last month when we launched an initiative on the amendments to the Constitution. But first, I would like to say that I welcome the agreement of the most important political parties in Croatia on the vote of Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia. It is important for me, too, that the greatest value of this agreement is that, finally, in the Croatian political space, we all found together that no matter where a Croatian citizen lives, whether they live in the Republic of Croatia or live outside the Republic of Croatia, they have the right to vote and elect representatives in the Croatian Parliament. That's the most important fact. The other thing is, whether that number, that fixed quota of three MPs could have been larger or could have been smaller. But more important than that, I hope that the consensus of all parliamentary representatives has resolved the doubt, the dilemma that has been a long line of years and in this assembly has burdened the general debate on the vote of Croats living outside Croatia. But what I think should still be a matter of agreement, a matter of conversation, which I think should be resolved is the right how and how Croatian citizens living outside Croatia can fully exercise their right to do so. Because the fact that 90 or 100000 Croats who, for example, will go to elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina or how many of them have come out last year can hardly achieve their electoral right in one almost impossible day. Therefore, how and how to enable all of them to exercise their right to vote, I think there will be more things and agreements and that we must bring a clear unequivocal view of how it would be possible for them to vote in only 4 polling places in one day not to make it practically impossible to do so. I think we're gonna need to talk about this. Whether it's a larger number of days or some other way I think we should talk about it. Another thing I would also like to say is the fact that these constitutional changes continue to contribute to Croatia's full democratisation in a way that contributes to the further independence of the Croatian judiciary. And I think it's one very important, one very important set of provisions which, as well as a judicial call, give the State Judiciary Council greater independence to these constitutional changes. In this sense, it is certainly necessary to consider what they have provided us with, as provided by the Croatian Association of Judges, in their letter, in which they raise doubts about the need for parliamentary representatives to be one from the majority, while others from the opposition side participate in the work of the State Judiciary Council. The other thing that we also discussed today was the appointment of the Constitutional Court judges and I think it's a good thing that we agreed that in this sense we should have a two-thirds majority. But I personally hold that it is not a good formulation under which the Constitutional Court judge who ceases his term automatically ceases to be the Constitutional Court judge until he is elected in accordance with these constitutional changes by the new Constitutional Court judge. I think it is necessary because of the continuity of the Constitutional Court's work to allow the Constitutional Court to leave one transitional period, that the election of a new judge of the Constitutional Court should be based on such constitutional changes, the existing judge whose term of office still stands still has the right to act as judge of the Constitutional Court in order not to be blocked under certain circumstances, certain conditions surrounding the Constitutional Court judge. She also spoke about this shortly earlier, and Mrs Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, in a letter from the Croatian Association of Judges, questioned the need for the President of the Supreme Court to submit a report once a year on the work of the judicial authority to the Croatian Parliament. In his letter, the Association of Judges says that it is very doubtful that such a provision would prescribe the obligation of the President of the Supreme Court to report to the Croatian Parliament on the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, because in a certain way this indicates complete, that there is no complete independence of the Croatian judiciary, i.e. there is no need, that the President of the Supreme Court reports this. I think, therefore, that in these agreements, which we are about, which are still needed until the final amendment to the Constitution that it is necessary and to think about and figure out how and how to make a completely independent judgmental power in the Republic of Croatia. Also, what we have discussed less in the Croatian Parliament so far in the submission of an initiative on the amendment of the Constitution was a referendum. I agree with such a provision, so to determine how the referendum worked if 50% of the citizens and voters voted in favour. And I think it's a good provision to keep, but I agree with all those who say that the threshold... The 10% threshold for the Croatian citizens to sign a petition to launch a referendum is really big, so more than we know that in the Republic of Croatia there are almost 5 million voters, and that somewhere around 4 million and 350 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia are according to the last signature. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, it is true that this threshold is already not 10% but 13%, i.e. 14%, and I think that, almost at the beginning, it makes it impossible to carry out the referendum itself, and I agree that through these constitutional changes we should consider bringing down this threshold, in order to make that referendum clearly available to all, that it can be easily implemented and that some important issues can be implemented in the Republic of Croatia. So what I want to conclude and with which I want to conclude these changes to the Constitution in any case contributes to further democratisation of Croatia, enable the conclusion of pre-accession negotiations for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union and what is important I think that by agreement of all important political parties in Croatia, I would say one question that has become in the Croatian political space has been removed and that in this way all those opportunities that existed well realised and such constitutional changes have been practical and accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54122	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First it's Mr. Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In his presentation, Honored counterpart Bačić spoke about the real vote of the Croatian diaspora, i.e. Croatian citizens who do not live in the Republic of Croatia, who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia in the elections. This is the solution proposed by this current draft of the amendments to the Constitution I find unacceptable and very problematic, because it is in fact ultimately so I would say counter-constitutional, because one part of Croatian citizens is prevented from voting because it is physically not enforceable. That's one reason. The second reason Croatian diaspora's awareness of three MPs is incorrect, unfair and unacceptable. Finally, it is also unconstitutional, because while the other Croatian citizens have the right to one representative of 12 to 14 thousand MPs to vote for one representative, the Croatian diaspora, or not only diaspora, so Croatians living and Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia will have a significantly worse status because they will have a total of all regardless of their extremely large number of only 3 parliamentary representatives. But there is also a comparison to the number of representatives of national minorities who would have to be at the same level as the number of representatives from the diaspora or Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia, because of the political balance in Croatia and because of the fact that neither the national minorities nor the Croatian diaspora are leading the calculation of political forces in Croatia, but that they are represented as representatives of a special part of Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54124	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54125	Thank you, Mr. President. So I think Mr. Serb if I were in my presentation I said so that the solution that would be made in one day, just in one day, on election day,... in four places in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that in a certain way it does not allow all Croats living in Bosnia and Herzegovina the same right to vote as it does to Croats living in Croatia, because it is almost impossible for, for example, 100,000 citizens to hold a single vote in one day. [[You don't understand.]] And I said that there is still a need to agree on this and find ways to and in what way to allow this right to be exercised in the neighbouring country, because I think that when we talk about voting rights, then only in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the controversial exercise of the vote in a way that only one day votes in four places. That's one thing. And the other thing, as regards the number of representatives who will represent Croatian citizens living outside Croatia in the Croatian Parliament, I said that there could have been 4 or 5 representatives in the past two terms in the Croatian Parliament, but also during this morning's debate when the president of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Mr Hebrang, spoke of examples in other countries, and when he mentioned an example of Italy, he said that about that number of representatives in the Italian Parliament corresponded to the percentage of such a fixed quota set out in the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54126	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54127	You are telling counterpart Bacic that it is necessary to provide for the possibility to extend the mandate of a constitutional judge to the stability of the constitutional court for a certain period of time until the election of a new one. And thus knowingly or unconsciously, deliberately or unwittingly misread the provision that has been proposed and make a mistake. This isn't about a certain amount of time, it's about a time that's just undefined. That time runs until his deputy's entry into service. And when can this deputy be elected? When a two-thirds majority is achieved. And what if it's never achieved? Yeah, then he'll never even get on duty. This means that the term of office of this previous judge does not extend for a certain period of time, which may be acceptable, means that until the term of office of his deputy, but no longer than 3 months or 6 months. Then it would be a certain time. The way it's going to look in practice. If any party in this House decides to have, that the judge who has the answer in the Constitutional Court. He stays there for life. Because he won't accept the election of his deputy and will keep him in the Constitutional Court for life, and then the provision that the mandate of the Constitutional Court judge lasts for 8 years and worthless. She's decorated with this tail that's now been added here. Therefore, the rapic is in complete contradiction with the provision, quite clear and precise, as long as the constitutional judge's mandate can last. Any extension that would go... and this proposal explicitly states that such an intention is absolutely and constitutionally unacceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54128	Mr. Branko Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54129	My dear fellow Stazic, you've done nothing to me. Why? Because I know very well what it says in the proposal for constitutional change. But I said that in these days ahead of us, the Constitution needs to find a formulation in the Constitution that will enable judges, existing judges of the Constitutional Court, not because of them, but because of the constitutional court's normal functioning, that at a certain time after the term of office has ceased, in a certain time, the election of a new judge of the Constitutional Court by two-thirds of the majority, as it is foreseen here, still carries out the duties of the Constitutional Court in order not to block the work of the Constitutional Court. So, I know what it says in constitutional changes, in the proposal for constitutional changes, I know what it says, but I'm saying what we should do in the sense that it doesn't happen that some judge can be after eight years still for a number of years the Constitutional Court judge but that until a new Constitutional Court judge is elected, a certain time can be defined by the amendment of the Constitution to carry out that duty in order not to get to the blockade of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54130	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54131	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to touch one thing that Mr. Bacic said, and that is the right of citizens to vote not only those who have a place outside of Croatia, I would say. So, in our electoral legislation, it is quite conservative, so to speak, a certain possibility of voting outside the place of residence, which is that a citizen who has residence and in Croatia, and then even outside Croatia, in a rather complicated way, can achieve his right to do so. Any change to the current situation must therefore be made to facilitate the vote of citizens and to make the election control transparent. In this respect, a solution that would apply to non-resistant citizens who have the right to vote should be in such a way as to either vote for a long time or to open up in the Republic of Croatia a number of special polling stations so that these citizens can come to vote. Because, of course, if they want to exercise their right to vote in the Republic of Croatia, they can do it on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And the whole point of our proposal is to change it, therefore, to vote on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is diplomatic and consular representations in the world and the entire territory within the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the simple number of people who come to the Republic of Croatia is slightly higher than it is on the day of the local elections. Thus, it can also be determined because this provision will not have an impact on the number of MPs in the elections for the Parliament, but it will, for example, have an impact on the election for the president of the state if it is defined differently than it is now following a rigid interpretation of the current law and constitutional changes. I therefore think that the agreement on how citizens' right to vote outside the Republic of Croatia should still be considered further. So it is not so simple that this right will not have an impact on the overall result of the election. For Parliament they will not, but for the presidential elections and for the referendums they will and there is a further discussion to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54132	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54133	Well, here I have to thank Mr. Bauk for actually supporting my proposal. I first hear it from you, so you agree that it should enable all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live outside Croatia to truly do so. Because if we don't allow them, either by extending the number of days when I can vote, or in some other way that I don't want to talk about here right now, but in some other way, we really do have this electoral right that they are guaranteed by the Constitution cannot allow such a strict formulation as it is in these constitutional changes. Is this, as you said, an opportunity to vote in the Republic of Croatia in places that are close to their place of residence or some other way I don't want to speculate at the moment, but I agree with you that it is necessary both for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia and for some other elections that they need to allow it to be their right, electoral right, to consume.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54134	Thank you. And the replica of Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54135	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you mentioned in your discussion, and my colleagues touched two things before. First, I absolutely agree with you and I am glad that the HDZ is thinking in this direction that such a formulation regarding constitutional judges cannot be sustainable. In order for the Constitutional Court to function from 13 constitutional judges, theoretically 7 would have to be active for the Constitutional Court to function. It could be very difficult to imagine the situation for 6 constitutional judges to reach the end of their term without agreeing with all 6 or 5, or 4 or 3, or that the two-thirds majority is not reached for the election of new judges. One more thing I would point out is that the SDP proposal, i.e. the SDP amendment, went to achieve a two-thirds majority in such an important issue. So far, this has been possible for a half-dominated majority of MPs, and we have witnessed many choices that have been at least controversial so far. The SDP wants to give up such a practice and therefore proposes this higher threshold than has been boredom, but normally not to allow some who may have been controversially chosen so far to remain indefinitely. I think a six-month proposal would be reasonable if a mandate were valid within that deadline, unless a solution was found within that deadline so that the judge would no longer have the right to act as judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54136	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54137	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am in my debate, so I also told myself that when I recited to Mr. Stazić that it is necessary to limit one period after the term of office of the Constitutional Court judge expires that he may continue to work until a new judge of the Constitutional Court is elected. However, I do not agree with you that he has been so controversial lately in the process of electing judges of the Constitutional Court in the Croatian Parliament, I do not agree. I think that's exactly what you said, I think the judges, members of the Constitutional Court in the Republic of Croatia, are satisfying and would become members of the Constitutional Court of the very high criteria set for selecting the judge of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, and I would like to make it clear that the composition of the Constitutional Court and this method that has so far been for the election of the Constitutional Court judges guarantees a very high quality of the judges of the Constitutional Court, and I think that the way the Constitutional Court is working is to the greatest extent confirming it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54138	Thank you. Let's move on, it's Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54139	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I will, in my debate, attempt to highlight the fundamental difference between the proposed draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the light of the adopted Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and I think we can see that difference through the following two segments, i.e. two groups of constitutional legal issues. In the first row, the first constitutional legal institute refers to the already mentioned article 45, i.e. after long-term consent, a political agreement has been reached and it has been translated into the meaning of the amendment of this Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and which primarily refers to the modality, i.e. the way Croatian citizens vote without residence in the Republic of Croatia, and their representation, i.e. the number, we all know in previous discussions what model has been accepted, so a fixed quota, three MPs in relation to this electoral corps, i.e. a national of the Republic of Croatia without residence in the Republic of Croatia. As far as this is concerned, I would agree with all of my predecessors who have highlighted the need in the debate, in the first place, to accept such a solution, but that such a solution in practice does not make it impossible in fact, given the number of people who will approach the vote because we know about the solution, so that, according to the proposed solution, it can only be in diplomatic consular representations that these polling stations would not be so burdensome that, in fact, this vote could not be done, carried out. Therefore, it is necessary to accept all those solutions, which are going, affirmatively, to enable all those people who, based on Article 45, wish to approach the vote, to enable them to do so, so that if in any way by time extension or that kind of vote, such a vote can take place not more than one day or more. In addition to this institute as defined as a newspaper in relation to the decision we discussed, I would also point out the following things, therefore, those changes that have come before us, and these are the initiatives of civil society associations or some other institutions. Therefore, it is the Constitutional Provisions, the right to access information, therefore, of the Ombudsman, and also a lot of the mentioned provision on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, that is, the way judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. We all know that the solution has been accepted, that the majority of parliament, for the choice of the Constitutional Court judges, accepts that solution to be 2/3 of the majority, but I would agree with all those who have debated in the sense that this statement should be completed in order to remove all these possible problems that could arise in terms of the functioning of the Constitutional Court and only this solution that would time-limit that period or define that time period within 6 months, from the end of the term of office within which the Constitutional Judge would continue to work, that would be the deadline within which the choice of the Constitutional Court judges would be carried out, as we have proposed in these amendments to the Constitution. All others, or almost all other constitutional legal institutes in this proposal, are almost in the same form, or have been, or have already been, the subject of the debate in the context of the adoption of the Decision on Accession of the Amendment to the Constitution, and in this group of constitutional legal questions we can really consider and systematise in the following way. So, the first group of these constitutional legal issues, that is to define constitutional issues arising from the obligations of individual negotiating chapters, with the European Union, is, of course, referring to the independence of the Croatian National Bank and the State Audit Office, the active and passive right of citizens of the European Union who are staying in the Republic of Croatia, then constitutional provisions relating to independence, impartiality, professionality of the judicial authority, so all of those constitutional provisions affecting these problems. And of course constitutional provisions on the European arrest warrant. In another group of these constitutional issues, the group presents issues that are not directly related to individual negotiating chapters but relate in the way of accession and the development of the constitutional legal position of the Republic of Croatia as a future full member of the European Union. This group of issues also include, of course, supporting such constitutional solutions from the referendum on membership, the transfer of constitutional powers, the participation of the institutions of the European Union, the direct impact and application of European Union law, the relations between the executive and the legislative authorities and the judicial authorities following the acquisition of full membership in the European Union and of course the position of citizens of the European Union in the Republic of Croatia from that constitutional legal aspect. And we have this third group of questions, also constitutionally very important issues from which I would highlight or apostrophe three because they seem unusually important to me. It is, of course, about redefining the role and way of handling the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the second introduction of an institute of non-depreciation of war profit and crime committed in the process of conversion and privatisation and, of course, a very important constitutional provision relating to the obligations and freeness of general education, of course, in accordance with the Law. Furthermore, allow me, after this review of the specific constitutional legal provisions, to say a few thoughts, sentences, suggestions, which relate to the completion of the expressions when setting out a proposal for an amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I think it is also a very important question and that we are now at that stage in the process of amending or adopting new constitutional provisions when, in any case, we need to take extra care of these things, there is no reason to make this explicitly in the nomotechnical sense of the text of the Constitution as someone has said, "Let's scratch it out, or it will be in accordance with all the nomotechnical standards." In that sense, I would certainly stress that this is Article 1 because it is unnecessary repetition so that only nom technically needs to be resolved, just to add this new text that goes into Article 1, and this remains really not a necessary repetition. Second, as regards Article 3 of this Article but also in the following articles, unnecessarily different statements are used for the same legal institute. For example, we have an expression in accordance with the international agreements concluded, but also on the basis of an international contract, then an international contract that is accepted by the Republic of Croatia and the like. Or, according to the law, it is prescribed by law, in accordance with the law, so it absolutely needs to be brought into line. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Article 24 of this article, but in previous uses, the terms of the term shall be used in time or for a period of time, whereas only when we are talking about the judges of the Constitutional Court shall we use the term of office. Finally, in Article 27 of the introductory wording should be completed because it is the chapters of the additional chapter rather than the titles above the articles. In additional articles, it is necessary to examine the basis for the use of different expressions, such as rights based on the acquis of the European Union, and then we have the right of the European Union, contracts on which the European Union is based, etc. So, I absolutely support this amendment, all the constitutional institutes and constitutional law institutes I've been talking about. I suggest that, in this explicit nomotechnical matter, I absolutely do not doubt that this will be the case, it has brought additional concern so that in this sense we have as much quality and cleaner text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54140	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Ivan Hazek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54141	Well, since I'm not a lawyer, but as a matter of fact, my rights are not foreign to me, I'm going to try a little bit of colleague Tomljenović actually gave me the creamworth that before I go to the board's meeting I can say two things. The first thing when it comes to the vote of our non-citizens in Croatia, why we stick to the fact that elections can only be held in one day in one week. In fact, from New Zealand to us, they take place in two days. If there are fewer polling stations, Saturdays and Sundays are always available to citizens in some countries and in a week to join polls. Second question about constitutional judges. There's a little bit of a lawyer who's always had a hard time. Post-festum, why do we decide on constitutional judges when their term is up? Gentlemen, the Constitutional Judges of Malta do not know who will be in the election or re-election in four years. 6 months before that deadline, the parliament should have on the agenda the latest issue of elections or re-election of constitutional judges. And if we're not able to do that by the time it expires, then we probably won't be able to do it for another year and a half. Here, just a little creamworth to try as a lawyer to watch your vision.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54142	Thank you. Answer Mr. Tomljenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here is the answer to the replica, so you listened carefully to me and you noticed that I actually suggested that given the number of these people of Croatia without residence in the Republic of Croatia who will join the elections or are presumed to join the elections, that they will actually be able to do so in the best possible way. And what does that mean in the best possible way? It means interpreting the provision of the Constitution and the law, affirmatively. So if you prescribe some kind of right, then you do not prescribe a constitutional or legal provision in order to deny it in some indirect way. So, I absolutely agree with you and what you're saying is that in this time frame, if we and we had the opportunity to hear at one of those diplomatic and consular representations we have 20, 30,000 potential voters, it would be at least an acceptable solution to allow them not one day but more days, so anyone who has the right to access that polling post to do so right and achieve it. There I actually agree with you, but my debate was just commenting on that article in that sense. Second as far as the Constitutional Court judges are concerned. I have to say the following here, so I agree with you that maybe we should discuss their mandate a little earlier, so we won't have any problems we're talking about. But we can always get in a position with regard to most of the need because we've accepted a consensual solution that's a two-thirds majority. A different constitutional solution than it's ever been before. So far, most of all of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament have been needed. And I think it is necessary to open up a period of time that must really be longer than 6 months, that the constitutional judge whose term of office has expired continues to work, so I have the status of the Constitutional Judge and that, in that time, let's say "alarm" in that sense, a decision is made in accordance with the Constitution, i.e. to make a decision on the choice of the Constitutional Court judge. So, I support you in this section that we need to discuss this in time, but also in that part that we should leave one deadline there so we do not want to either ourselves or that composition of Parliament but in the first row of the Constitutional Court to allow it to work normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54144	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54145	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'll do it very briefly. When the Constitution or constitutional changes are adopted, it is normal that not everyone can be satisfied and is never 100% supportive of any proposal proposed. And the fact is, it's good that at least a very high level of consent is between those who adopt such an act. As things now stand in the Croatian Parliament, we are on the best track for the draft amendments to the Constitution to be adopted with such a very high level of consent between the actors that this Constitution will bring. So since the Constitution has been changed or passed four times so far, this will be 5 changes in 20 years of Croatian independence and it is good to say that after 9 years we have achieved or that we will achieve a high level of agreement by the time we adopt the draft. What I would like to mention and what is extremely important, do not forget is a lot of talk about things such as the electoral right in the diaspora or here today is the topic and re-election of constitutional judges, but it is necessary to mention some things that have already been agreed before, which have been proposed and for which they have been proposed. I mean, first of all, the non-depreciation of crime or the crimes of war profiting. We are witnesses, and this was the proposal of the President of the Republic of Ivo Josipovic and of the SDP, which he gave on behalf of the SDP and which, of course, already half a year ago or some time when the first draft agreed was accepted by the ruling party, and that is good because indeed in the 1990s they marked, of course with the war which Croatia was waged, but also a lot of irregularities, non-transparentity, crime. I'd say while one of them was bleeding, the other got unfounded rich. Many of these works ended in old age and it is good that we introduced this institute into the Constitution that such works should never be outdated because no one had the right to be rich while others were killed on the front. As for the electoral procedure and regulation of the voting rights of our citizens, we have discussed here that in the diaspora or beyond the borders of Croatia our citizens will vote whether one, whether two days, they will vote and elect three MPs in the Croatian Parliament. This is in some correlation, i.e. in other parliaments, such as Italian, where the citizens of the Republic of Italy who have a very large diaspora and choose under approximately similar proportions, means those of 600 choose 12 MPs in Parliament. So nothing new and it shouldn't be anything controversial. And that the SDP there, proposing such things, went towards whether it would be 2, 3, 5 or 7 MPs, is seen as a proposed quota, no matter how many of these voters came out, but it was the only thing in the interest of the SDP that this process was regulated in one normal way, not to be followed by the controversy that followed it all these years. We have a situation that in the diaspora, the number of voters is not that they have not been reduced, but they are constantly growing and it turns out that no person has been released from the polling list for all these 20 years. It or may be in the order of world wonders, but of course nature knows its legality and it simply can't work like that. On the other hand, each election so far has overnight arrived votes and necessarily in two, three constituencies turn the result for one or, for two, but for one MP. So for example, the final election in the 5th constituency, in the 4th constituency, the result was turned overnight for several hundred MPs. And we must in some way regulate not to manipulate those votes that take place outside the Republic of Croatia and therefore it is good to know how many MPs represent the Croatian diaspora. It would be even more ideal, as Italy has again solved, to divide those MPs that one is for the diaspora of North and South America, Australia, and two of us are neighbouring countries of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That way you'd know the rules in advance and you'd never have a problem with that and that kind of choice. On the other hand, I am sorry that no provision is introduced in the Constitution that the electoral lists are public. We cannot get to the voter's list, nor does anyone in Croatia know the list of voters, except for the minister of administration or the one who is in a position to access that information. Thus, the transparency of electoral law and the course of elections can never be established. This list must be made transparently available to all who participate in the election game. We have 4.5 million voters, and there are fewer inhabitants in Croatia. It's one controversy that's been following us all this time and I'm sorry we didn't put it in the Constitution to know in advance that it was public data. We await, of course, there is no obstacle to this being made public, but obviously it is not in the interest of this authority that such information publicly exists for many years. It's been said for 4, 5 years, but I don't think that's going to happen for the next parliamentary elections either. We will also have many more voters in the next parliamentary elections than we have residents. It's obviously in someone's best interest. As for the vote, I agree that vote is easier. The proposals are diverse, it may be a proposal as it is required to vote on the territory of the Republic of Croatia if it is closer to someone from the neighbouring country of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it can vote on the territory of the Republic of Croatia along the border. Voting stations can be organised there, and someone may be closer to coming from a particular place in Bosnia and Herzegovina than to go to consular representations that are. A vote can also be organised to make it easier for these people to vote. As for other changes, I am glad that the revision enters the Constitution in this way. The audit must play a stronger role, it must also be given a special law to enable and sanction, not only to carry out audits but also to be able to initiate certain criminal or criminal proceedings, so that they are responsible for doing so, not to reroute matters to the attorney's office and then to see that in some situations in the lawyers' drawers it is maintained for 3, 4 and more years. I would give the review the right to give the initiative itself and in some ways launch a certain criminal application before certain courts, if it is found that Croatian laws are naturally violated. As for the referendum, I support the reduction of this need to come up with a number of voters in order to be valid or not have to be 50+1 voters for all of the total voters because we only had one such referendum that succeeded. It's a referendum on May 19th, '91. when 83.56% of Croatian voters came out. 94 voted in favour of secession from the former state. We will probably never again achieve such a level of consent on any subject and normally when we enter and when we have a referendum on the European Union that this standard must not be so high, but simply bring it down that one of the more than half of the voters has turned out to mean that we have declared that we accept such accession. To conclude, I am pleased that there will obviously be acceptance and great agreement in the Croatian Parliament. It is good that these things are not I would say to drag everyone to their side, but there has been an agreement that is ultimately in Croatia's interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54146	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In his presentation, dear colleague Maras referred to a few things that I consider necessary answers. One question is the list of voters. In fact, when it comes to voter lists, we are all aware that there are persons on those lists who may have died a long time ago. But there is never a list of voters, i.e. persons on the lists of voters who left Croatia in '91. years, fought against the Republic of Croatia. Some of them may have died in that war, some living but certainly a large number of them died somewhere in Serbia. Question one, actually. How and how will Croatia clear up this list of voters? Perhaps at some point they will remove it from the list of those over 120 years old. But on the other hand, we also have a problem with the regular payment of pensions from the Croatian Pension System to persons who are certainly no longer alive. So that's one problem. Another problem when it comes to diaspora and the vote on diaspora, i.e. Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia and the modalities of ensuring them the opportunity to go to elections. This constitution produces third-rate Croatian citizens, and all discussions are about how to enable these third-rate Croatian citizens to make voting easier and two days, so that they can travel to the Republic of Croatia and so on. That's unacceptable. When it comes to high levels of consent over these constitutional changes. You know, every time there's a euphoria in Croatia, it's exactly the time you make the biggest miss and the biggest mistakes. We are truly one society of euphoria, campaigns and extremes. It is euphorically going into constitutional changes, campaigning to implement the whole procedure with bad solutions. And then for a while we're going to look for solutions that are radically opposite of these because we're going to realize that they're wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54148	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54149	Thank you very much. There is co-operation between the states of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina on the list of voters and how it can be arranged, and not, likely, mechanisms. If he had the will, everything could probably be determined who's alive who isn't. The fact is that voters' lists do not reflect the picture of reality and the fact that Croatia does not have control at this time and the possibility of taking care of these lists on its own. And therefore, of course, this solution within the Constitution may be necessary at this point. If all these things were cleared up, if everything was transparent, there might be less and less trouble. As far as third-rate Croatian citizens are concerned, I would disagree with you. What does a third-rate Croatian citizen mean? They have the right to choose, the right to choose. The fact is that there is an increased interest in these citizens in certain parties and in certain areas the most pronounced ahead of the election. A lot of people rarely remember these non-citizens, but Croatian citizens when the term of office is won or when the period of the elections is longer than a year and two. It is usually very easy to organize buses before the local elections, bringing voters to polling stations. That's when the interest is great. Do you think that's fair to those voters? Does this tell you that these voters are in some way third-rate when they are being taken care of most only when they have to give a vote. It is clear here and the position of these voters is clearly defined and in this way I think it will be achieved and their role will not only be electoral but will have its position guaranteed by the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54150	Thank you. And the replica, Mr. Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54151	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Maras, the fact is that this question that you've been talking about is how many MPs and where they should be elected and who votes to be very important. Because just in this last one, in all the elections that were held, it was a significant issue because the examples of resolution and elections in Parliament were very diverse. And exactly what you say often happened precisely because of these buses or I don't know of similar arrivals and people from the neighbouring Republic, that we had big problems, or in solving certain individual choices of individual representatives. But also the issue of local elections. Well, we've been reading Vrgorec's example, I don't know what it was like last year, and on TV, it was like people were coming, going, etc. Therefore, the number of voters and the place to be elected I think it is one of the important issues that we need to address through these constitutional provisions, but also through the law. Because once and for all, this issue should cease to be as spoken here today, as a colleague of Serbs has spoken, and the voters of the second, third order, this one, that one. If you ask yourself a question, I was in Perth and I saw that there are Croats there, or citizens who vote. Whether they are the second or third order of what you have said, for they will have no certainty in this House of Representatives at all, and that they will be able to be voted. Therefore, when and in what way and in what time period it must surely be brought into one optimal relationship, namely in relationships that will allow these people to vote at the right time and to choose their representatives according to their best criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54152	Replication response, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54153	Thank you very much. To be precise and fair, it's not just brought out of one country. There are more countries where voters' buses are brought when needed. I would just appeal, and I think it's a good and position for me these people there will be stronger if we don't bid on them, unless we present it as a problem, not because of them, but because of certain interests and because of what is important and so far it's important how we motivate them to give you a vote and in some way provide you with a mandate or two more. The SDP has not led to whether there will be a mandate or two more than to be a fairer, more transparent and fairer process of elections. The fact that we resonated in this way would not have put three MPs in the proposal. You understand? Because theoretically now may not be enough, it may be in those three representations of 5,000 voters per MP, not 14 or 20. I want to tell you that it is not a question of whether or not these people will come out more or less, but whether they are somehow put in the Constitution to have a certain right, not to bid against them from choice to choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54154	Thank you. We have another replica and one correction. Mr. Ivica Pancic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54155	We have been listening all day about the vote of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia, but for me, one other question is crucial. You mentioned him here by my colleague Maras, I have a need to potential him further, and that is the question of the implementation of the referendum, the referendum on association with other countries, or communities, i.e. in this case with the European Union. It seems to me that, or I don't think it's good that article 141 is. The constitution amended in this way, you are right when you say that in addition to our unsettled voter lists for which responsibility is unquestionably borne by the ruling set, it would be difficult to meet that condition by achieving the majority of the voters, but the solution may then need to be sought in the existing provision for other referendums within the Republic of Croatia, meaning that at least the half majority of voters enrolled, and then those who have come out looking for an additional half-dominated majority, not to come into the situation that the key issue is not only for this generation, but also for future generations is decided by a simple majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54156	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54157	Thank you very much. I wouldn't agree with you, colleague Pancic, there's a possibility of a boycott. In theory, those who would be against a decision on a particular issue can say no, we will not go to the elections, and if such as 25%, with the greatest possible motivation, is hardly going to go to referendum 75 and more percent, when elections for the Croatian Parliament never go out more than that to the elections, no matter how much motivation it was to change power or anything else. On the other hand, you see a referendum in Slovenia, 42% of the people went to the referendum. So that's the possibility they probably wouldn't have met. If 50% had to go to the polls, one who is against the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union could say don't go out and we would never need a quorum that this proposal that you propose is in the Constitution. That is why I agree to keep it this way, that most citizens decide to go to the polls and for or against voting, not to be able to direct the decision in a way that boycotts the referendum and thus prevents the implementation of the majority's decision, i.e. the decision of most Croatian citizens and their expressed wishes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54158	Thank you. And a correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A lot was said after this debate, so I don't know if we even remember what was said, so I would refer to it when I spoke, but he said he expected the number of voters to be reduced. So what... to reduce the number of voters? [[You don't understand.]] What if we were gone? So, I mean in Croatia or anywhere. Take it easy. So what's that logic that's expected to decrease the number? You'd be shrinking. Number two, just a little, cleaning up therefore voters, i.e. the list of voters was the same duty in Karlovac was in Mostar. And for your information, because I can see that you don't know, in Mostar, among other things, over 3,000 people who were on the lists have been cleansed for the last parliamentary elections, and not anymore, because they passed away, because they changed their place of residence, etc. Let's just say that's what this is about. And it's not true that it's not working. On the other hand, when you keep mentioning some voters coming from somewhere, you've created a myth out of it. So one myth that has nothing to do with the fact. So in the previous parliamentary elections, there was no fraud, no species, nor was it possible to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54160	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54161	Therefore, there was everything that could have been in Croatia, and by nothing different... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54162	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54163	In Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54164	You're out of time. Please stick to the time, because it doesn't make any sense that every time goes by. The Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk continues the debate individually for 10 minutes each. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In my debate, I will touch three to four topics, depending on how much time I have. So the first provision that no one has ever mentioned is that the two-thirds majority to leave the army outside the borders is abolished. I don't think that's good. I think that such a provision should remain in the Constitution, that the army not be one of the elements of the daily political crackdown of the parties, but that, for the engagement of the army outside the borders, they have the same responsibility as both the authorities and the opposition. Such a provision now puts something even worse, which is that the president of the state as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces puts the arbitration between the position and the opposition through the Armed Forces, because he has the right to return, therefore, or to deny consent to the Parliament's decision if it has been reached by one majority or if it has been taken by the other majority. I don't think that's right yet. No decision in the history of the Croatian Parliament that was to be made by the two-thirds majority was made because no agreement was reached, although every time responsibility was to be shown, when the two-thirds majority was to be achieved, regardless of who was in power, that responsibility was achieved. We have two examples. One example is the departure of the Croatian Army to Afghanistan, when HDZ was against it in the morning in 2003, and the afternoon was for it. And we have another case, which is the arbitration agreement with Slovenia, when in one vote when the two-thirds majority of SDP was not required, and when it was due and when it was necessary to show responsibility was for it. Therefore, the two-thirds majority is a very good instrument for Croatian political parties in some things, not many of them, but in some things show their responsibility, and therefore I advocate that the provision on the two-thirds majority needed to send the army outside the borders remains in the Constitution. As for the other thing, so again I'm talking about the two-thirds majority, it's a matter of constitutional judges. I see that consensus has been reached among the parties, which is good, only this little dispute remains on extending the term of office to the Constitutional Court judges. As for me personally, the extension of the term of office to the Constitutional Court judges who have been elected by a two-thirds majority is not even so controversial, but to the judges of the Constitutional Court, and especially to those who have been elected in the way they are now absolutely disputed to extend their mandate, and because of this provision I am to be thrown out of the proposal of the Constitution, a proposal for this draft. Now, as far as the referendum is concerned, according to the current law and the current legal provisions, all those who do not go to the referendum are counted as votes against. And therefore, the absence and boycott of the referendum is one of the instruments that opposes the referendum issue that a) itself is the fact that around 30% of voters who are on the voters list do not go out in any kind of vote, and then another 10, 15% of those who are against it, but then even threats can or in some other way influence citizens not to go out in a referendum and in this way no referendum could actually pass. This is more honest, everyone has the right to vote, everyone has the right to campaign, it is important that the campaign for this referendum issue is fair, that it is long enough for citizens to decide and that in the end the elections, that is, the referendum be fair so that the will of the citizens can be seen. So those who voted for it are in favour, and those who voted against it are against it. If a fateful question is of interest to the Republic of Croatia in which there are, say, 2 different opinions in society which are equally, or roughly equally represented, both parties will make an effort to make as many citizens as possible to come to the referendum and both sides will have to accept the statement of citizens who are in favour of, who are against being against, and those who have stayed home that they are at home, that they are not interested and that they could not vote. Not in a way that those who stayed home to count themselves against. I therefore support this milder way of determining the outcome of the referendum, and it is certainly a illogical thing that Mr. Lesar said that 77 MPs can call a referendum and vote for themselves. Well, I guess then another 15,000 people who are on election boards at 6,000 polling stations will at least take a ballot and circle, it's no longer 77 that's multiple anymore. Therefore, such playing with extreme situations is undoubtedly interesting and fun, but in any case it is not responsible. As for the most interesting issue, which is choice, electoral rights, voting rights, one sentence in these discussions was actually something to repeat. So, counterpart Dragan Covic, president of the HDZ, BiH: "Better to abolish our rights than to define it this way." I think that's fair. In addition, in the Republic of Croatia, it is in force that all citizens have the general and the same, all citizens have the general and equal voting rights, and then there is another provision that special voting rights can be given to members of national minorities. Now, there's one quite this creative interpretation, which is that you can, but if you're going to take a special voter's right to give up the general. So, this is what is now in force in Croatia I think it is even a little false interpretation of the Constitution. However, the provision that all citizens have general and equal voting rights has been violated, i.e. it has not been changed, but is fundamentally amended by this proposal, so that Croatian citizens choose outside the Republic of Croatia 3 MPs. In theory, a few thousand can choose three MPs and then their right to be more equal than the right of a resident in Croatia, and their number can happen to be such that their representative is worth a lot more than a representative in Croatia. Now that's a compromise. From one point of view, in the Republic of Croatia, citizens who do not have a residence in Croatia do not have the right to vote on another position, which is that they have the same voting right even though they do not have the same obligations as all other citizens. And that is a compromise with which, as the SDP president pointed out, we will all be able to live for 10 or 20 years, but with which we will not be satisfied. Why is that a compromise? Because in BiH not all citizens have the right to vote. Citizens with dual citizenship do not have the right to vote if BiH is not their country of residence. Therefore, this constitutional principle that citizenship is already falling in BiH, we do not have to move on. And that is why the requirement that the group of citizens does not have the right to vote is as legitimate as being legitimate as having the same. The final result will be decided by the Assembly by a two-thirds majority. As far as other matters are concerned, I disagree with those and even those who come from the ranks of my party who, for any irregularities in the polls, take as an argument to change something. It's not the citizens' fault, it's the state and the political parties who may be good or bad at controlling the elections. Let's not accuse citizens, voters, of something that needs to be secured by the state. Unfortunately, five years after irregularities were observed in BiH's polling stations in the presidential elections, no one has yet responded. So when it comes to a double vote in the same election, we have an example of a journalist on the morning list who voted 2, only then something started to happen, but no one was punished for making it possible. Also, as far as the number of MPs is concerned, yes – perhaps 3 MPs is a compromise, but what criterion does 200 thousand members of the Serb national minority choose 3 MPs? By the number of voters there could be 9 and in 2000 they chose one with the same constitution. Therefore, it is also a matter of social and political agreement. To conclude, as far as general and equal voting rights are concerned, that in Croatia after these constitutional changes will no longer be what we call it and the debate on whether it should remain or not is as legitimate as the debate on whether it should not be. As for the way in which citizens' voting rights are granted, it is absolutely for citizens to be allowed to vote while they are on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So when we talk about polling stations, opening 100, 200, 500, 1000 special polling stations in the Republic of Croatia is what no one should be against if they allow citizens to vote in this way. But opening 150 polling stations in BiH outside consular representations where it is not the territory of the Republic of Croatia is what I do not support. And on this trail, a solution can be sought to allow all citizens to vote because to paraphrasise a little bit, there is an obligation for the Republic of Croatia to worry about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. And here's something else going on, that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are more concerned about the Republic of Croatia. We don't think it's necessary to worry like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54166	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Ivica Pancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54167	I have heard here for 20 years about unquestionable Croatian state sovereignty, about Croatian national interest, so I find it difficult to make a turn at once, as most in the Croatian Parliament have done. I believe that the issue of state, entering new alliances cannot be in the same rank as the end of municipalities. And we have come to the situation that in Croatia it is harder to join another municipality or God forbid to change the borders of the county, which nobody seems to have tried to do but to join in Croatia another political creation. I believe that these two referendums cannot be in the same phrase, I know where the problem is, and I know why Mrs Kosor is talking about the relaxing approach to the referendum, so after 20 years of the creation of the Croatian state, we have come to the fact that we do not trust our citizens, so we are going to have a relaxing approach to this key political issue for this generation and for the next few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54168	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54169	Comrade Pancic, I am surprised by your sentence that you find it difficult to make a turn because you have made a turn when you have been selected on a list for the Parliament, you have come out of it and you remain a representative, and nothing after that has to be difficult for you, so you are having such a relaxing discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54170	Thank you. And now it's time for the replica of the distinguished representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54171	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, my esteemed colleague Bauk referred to the legitimacy of the different demands in his presentation. That's true, indeed all the demands have been made here as a political stance, legitimately, surely there is one part of the voter who is prone to it. We have had opportunities here today to hear almost open requirements for Croatia's entry into Balkan integration, or to be more precise about removing the obstacles and banning Croatia from entering the Balkan integration processes, which is certainly the same legitimate requirement that a part of the electorate wants to support here in a certain way in Croatia and sees the meaning of its political action. What I particularly want to stand up against here is the fact that the practical implementation of a systematic crawling path towards Balkan integration and through these constitutional changes, where one by one constitutional change practically strengthens those elements and those political forces that lead in this direction, which is unfortunately happening to us through this constitutional change and when it comes to the use of national minorities for that very purpose. I really have nothing against national minorities in terms of their specific rights of education in mother tongue, language protection, culture, tradition, I am absolutely special to that, but I am not for them to be instrumentalised and used here in the calculation of two policy options, in order to create a supremacy here, and for the consequence there is ultimately what we now have the opportunity to see this year and through the state budget, that the money is shared according to national membership. That's absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54172	Time. I would ask you, however, not to say that it is a crawling departure to Balkan integration, because constitutional changes are, I guess, clear to all, precisely towards European integration, so at least now they should not be convinced. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54173	That's not exactly how I understood my colleague Pupovec when he was talking about it, he said that in the Constitution it was the only ban. The biggest ban on this is the will of the Croatian people and the very large majority of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia shown in a referendum in 1991 and a number of times repeated by all political parties, which is that the Republic of Croatia is a sovereign, independent and independent state, a state that wants to go to European integration. If there is a Balkan country such as Greece and such as Bulgaria today in these European integrations, we will not object. My personal desire for other countries in the Balkans, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo and Macedonia to come to this stage of their democratic development to be candidates for the European Union, so that in a family of 30 or 40 European Union countries we develop these areas together. As for the instrumentalisation you mentioned in some form, a national minority representative himself would not mix it with what was said earlier. So my opinion is that those MPs who are elected on the basis of special voting rights, double voting rights if there are minorities and diaspora should not participate in the formation of a parliamentary majority but rather join after that. Then it would not have happened that the first day after the election, the result of the election, was interpreted by one MP who had been elected with 300 votes, the first one crossed over to equalize something, etc. And as for other things that you mentioned before the referendum and third-rate citizens, it is one dangerous thesis that you would disagree with because it can then be said that third-rate citizens who pay taxes neatly and to whom laws are passed and representatives of those who do not pay taxes to which these laws do not apply. Therefore, there are two sides to the same medal and I would disagree with you there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54174	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, let's go back to European integration a little bit and the reason why we even started these amendments to the Constitution. The European integration has just been a reason to initiate amendments to the Constitution, this is all that we are saying in the last few discussions is not related to it, even though we have included these changes. I remember the last time we talked about the Constitution here, on behalf of the government, the minister emphasized two things, it was an emergency, and we're not closing the door. As you can see, the door didn't close, there was an agreement between Mrs Kosor and Mr Milanovic, and today we have such a proposal. From this debate, as far as I'm concerned, there are only two obstacles left this morning, and if we continue to discuss three MPs and we have agreed on them, so I don't see any reason to discuss it for so long, if the deal has already been reached. Two large parties, one of our positions and your opposition, but good Parliament is a place for debate, so there's no reason not to exchange views. But we all know that we're going to vote for this, therefore, this dispute is gone, at least between major political entities, but there have been two disputes in this morning's debate one choice of Constitutional Judges and their extension of the mandates is a secondary education, we're talking about middle education, and I see that we're on the verge of an agreement that I saw here this morning the movement of our representatives, I see that there will be some compromise solutions, so we're already in agreement enough and we have enough degree of compromise. This morning I heard also here speak from some club representatives, not Mr. Chehok calling it a compromise, but he called it a settlement, a contract, and even said it was a very bad deal, a contract, a bargaining arrangement where there was a constitution and a state. And on the other hand, we hear that compromise is the best thing we could achieve and that two-thirds of what I agree with is that a two-thirds vote on constitutional changes is something that is good, which allows everyone to express their views and to come up with these solutions that we have come up with. And it was actually the only way to get out of a possible stalemate position, meaning a compromise. Here we are in phase two. The two proposals were agreed, one proposal was the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the second was a group of MPs. But, of course, we must admit that we are making this constitution primarily because of the entry into the European Union, and these are the changes that the prime minister spoke of this morning, which concern us most, and of course everything else that will change is good for the Croatian state, good for the development of democracy, good for strengthening the institution, the institutions of the rule of law. And what seems very good to me is still the stronger role of Parliament, stronger parliamentaryism which I think should be answered as representatives. Well, I'll just say it on one example, it's a national budget vote. I must admit that I was kind of worried about it while we were bringing budgets at local level, you always have to have most council members to bring budgets to the city, municipality or county, and in the Croatian Parliament it was not the case that it was quite illogical you will have to admit. And that is why I am very happy that the state budget will be passed to most absolute all MPs. In this regard, I believe that this is one contribution to strengthening parliamentaryism, and I believe that we have agreed on that. Also, the right of European citizens to vote in Croatia, I believe, is to strengthen democratic values, and I also think of double citizenship institutes as good proposals and in this sense that we agree on this. So that we don't get the impression that we're just making a constitution for Europe, but as I said primarily because of Europe, because 14 laws can't be passed. Here is our Committee on European Integration recently not working at all because we have no draft laws. So we're waiting for these amendments to the Constitution so we can run the changes to the law. And in that sense, I think this is a good thing that we agreed on. It is also not worth mentioning the 3.5 billion euros that we are constantly talking about and about the possible withdrawal of these money from the European funds if we bring the Constitution as quickly as possible, if we open Chapter 23 as quickly as possible, if we open 2 of the remaining chapters and close all the rest to conclude the negotiations and to sign the accession treaty for Europe in 2011, and to open a referendum that we are talking about today. I think it is a good provision that the number of voters who went to the polls and their majority of 50% plus one will be respected. I think that's enough for citizens and for our democratic culture to tell us that 50% of the voters will not come out. So there's no reason not to trust our citizens and not to trust the will of our citizens. So, she talks about 77, I don't think she's useful at all. I also wanted to point out that these other changes that we have stopped talking about lately, and that may have been a little bit forgotten that we have introduced a very important institute, which is not an obsolescence of the war commission's crimes, so we are introducing a provision that the assets are raised to constitutional level, so last time there has been a lot of talk about europeanisation, and even some countries that are already in the European Union, which expect us to meet the criteria do not have such a thing in their Constitution or at that level. So I think it's a good thing that these changes happened and that it's a good thing that we showed that we have sometimes even a higher degree I'm going to call it europeanization than they have themselves. So we don't bring the Constitution for our own sake, but we bring it for ourselves and for the sake of the European Union, and I think it is for us to welcome this agreement. I believe that all our discussions lead in the same direction and that at the end of tomorrow we will all accept these constitutional changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54176	Thank you. We have three replicas. First, he's the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54177	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have two things Mrs. Shuica said. So, as far as budgeting is concerned. I don't see any big change. The only thing that's going to change is that the smaller coalition partners won't be able to pretend they're against it anymore. They'd stay nice in the hall, raise their hands against but they'd do a quorum and the budget would pass. This is how they're gonna have to pretend they're for even though they're not. Well, as far as this other thing is concerned, that we agree on everything and that's why we're discussing it. It is good to discuss, to remind people of what were the initial positions and what was made a compromise. Why was a compromise made? Because the interest of the Republic of Croatia in entering the European Union is much greater than the interest of the HDZ to have two representatives more or the interest of the SDP that HDZ has two representatives. And that should be said very clearly and openly because probably with this solution they are not overjoyed by either your or our voters. And as for Mr. Chehok and his words settlement and compromise, a party that's 10 years in position with everyone and 10 years in power with everyone and anyone who's 22 to bring down two MPs, so I can't say to their facilities. And if I called it what it's called, then I wouldn't say a settlement or a compromise, but something that would certainly get a heads-up from Mr. Vice President, so I won't say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54178	I'd rather not. In response to the replica, the distinguished representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54179	So I think this is a turning point in the development of the Republic of Croatia for the past 20 years and on this constitution we will actually show whether we are mature for this step that awaits us in the next year. And that's why we reminded you of the situation this morning for the past 20 years when we didn't agree on big questions. So we didn't agree on the Christmas Constitution, we didn't agree on June 25, 1990, we didn't agree on a referendum on NATO, and here's a chance for us all to agree and see that the atmosphere has matured to agree on it. The other thing is the state budget. I think it was really illogical and it is very important that the Croatian Parliament brings an absolute budget to the state because if the units of local administration and self-government should do so then logic says the Parliament is doing the same. And as far as small parties are concerned, I think it's just a little picture of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54180	Thank you. Second replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've noticed that after long-term consent, some symbiosis of political parties finally came to an end, so they agreed, in fact, on all the issues of the Constitution, and they didn't really need to, and I didn't expect so much debate, but television for its sake, and while public transmissions have many who are in love with themselves and want to be watched and logically that they will debate as long as television carries it. But as far as the amendments to the Constitution itself are concerned, it is of course important, and these are here today a hundred times many have mentioned for the adoption of certain laws from the European Union package. Normally it is important to join the European Union, but what is most important is in any case to improve the rights and quality of life of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. That's what's important. And it's important, and you've mentioned it yourself, and in fact this was my goal to mention that for the first time ever, this government is proposing in amendments to the Constitution that there is no obsolescence of war profits as regards the process of conversion and privatisation. You know, the others were in power too, so they kept it quiet. It's past the mandate that they didn't even mention it. Finally, to put an end to this, that those who were profiters in the war, and also those who think so through conversion and privatisation, would be to have this constitutional decree bring them insomnia and to think about when, in principle, their assets would come into a drum that they had in an immoral way and even some in an illegal way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54182	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54183	Comrade Kunst, we risk being one of those people who's in love with themselves and they're reporting for television, but anyway, I want to answer these questions that you've raised here. Surely we are changing the Constitution as I have already said for the sake of the European Union, but for our own sake and for the achievement of the standards of a democratic civilised state, and surely these provisions that we are changing will contribute to strengthening institutions as I have already said. Maybe as far as the conversion itself is concerned, that's what I was also talking about in the debate and I agree with you that maybe today, I repeat, we neglected to talk about it because we think we made it last time in agreement and we don't need to talk about it anymore. It's good to point out and say, it's an institute that certainly many other countries don't have, and we'll have it in our Constitution. Also, the issue of minorities in preamble is not just symbolic nature. I believe that the issue of mentioning all minorities in the preamble of the Constitution is a very important issue and that this is a way of proving respect and that this is the same great civilization of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54184	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakosh, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54185	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Shuica, I didn't realize what you gave about the extension of the constitutional judges' mandate, whether we agreed or didn't agree I didn't know it, but I think so far it was the case that no matter who we proposed or wanted to enter the Constitutional Court, whether it was even a Nobel Prizer, you could probably outvote it or not, but also some problematic cases were voted for by the Constitutional Court judges. After all, we witnessed the fact that additional consents were carried out, or judicially, to determine whether or not it was wrong. However, what I consider to be an extension issue, at least I think, is the question of extending the mandate of constitutional judges that it should certainly not go as such, because if we can solve it and if by the statutes, whether it is a health institution or a university, etc. determined that 6 months before the end of the term of office either the director of a health institution or a dean or a rector, etc., I think that a choice may be made within 6 months. As far as other matters are concerned, I think it's a question of the quality of the one to be chosen is much more important. We have proposed a 2/3 majority which is probably for us as foreigners who are likely to behave and be a position for sure in the next period, will not be acceptable too much, but I think it's precisely because of this democracy that we put forward. And this is certainly not acceptable to extend the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54186	Time! Thank you. Dear Representative Dubravka Shuica, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54187	Mr. Mondekar, I don't know if I heard correctly, you said it wouldn't be acceptable. Bodakosh, I'm sorry. That it won't be acceptable to you. It's amazing that you would have different criteria in the opposition and in position if you were on the occasion, but hopefully that's not going to happen. And as far as the judiciary's sphere is concerned, it is also important that changes be recognised, all of them, from strengthening the position of constitutional judges to the attorney general, that it is independent of the judicial authority, etc. And as for the specific reason you have come forward, which is the institution of the Constitutional Judge and the extension of the possible term of office, it seems to me that we are on the trail of this new compromise again that it will extend for three to six months and that it will be possible to choose a constitutional judge or not to be elected during that period. I believe it won't disturb us so constitutional changes don't vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54188	Thank you. We're moving on with the debate. Dear Representative Damir Sesvečan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54189	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the fourth time since October of last year we discuss at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on constitutional changes. Today we are discussing a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was established by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system at its meeting held on 24 May, which was preceded by a debate at the Committee meeting on 18 May when the debate over the expected political agreement or better put forward a compromise between the HDZ and the SDP, namely the president of the HDZ and the Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor and SDP President, Mr Milanovic on the amendments to Article 45. The constitution that the amendments were conditional upon by a group of SDP, HNS and IDS representatives, and what was eventually accepted by the ruling coalition parties seems to me at least to me the majority of the opposition parties represented in the Croatian Parliament. So the deal was reached on May 21st. It shows that Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia will exercise their right to vote by voting in polling stations in the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia, and three MPs will be elected to the Croatian Parliament. Thus, in the Croatian Parliament, the representation of representatives of Croatian citizens living abroad is guaranteed. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposed manipulation, as I said, is the result of a political agreement, is the result of a compromise and reflects the current political relations in this House and accepts it as such. I personally had a slightly different view of the matter. I explained them during the debate on the proposal for a decision on accession to the amendment of the Constitution on 28 April, so I won't repeat them. Also, I will not look again at institutes and solutions that have not been hampered, on which there was a high level of consent, i.e. complete consent. As regards these two constitutional amendments, the Government proposal and the SDP, HNS and IDS Group proposal. I will stress only that these constitutional changes primarily relate to those provisions necessary for the completion of accession negotiations and membership in the European Union, then those relating to the modalities of the accession and functioning of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, and the proposals for changes stemming from the initiatives of different institutions and civil society associations. Only a few articles contained in this proposal that are not fully agreed and which are not unanimously identified on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. These are therefore the proposals contained in the provisions of Article 6 which are set out in Article 38. The Constitution introduces the right to access information as constitutional law. Article 12, which proposes to amend the provisions of Article 65 in the section relating to the obligation and freeness of education, and the provisions of Article 24 which propose amendments to Article 125(1) on the necessary 2/3 of the majority for the selection of constitutional judges, and the introduction of a constitutional mechanism ensuring the full functioning of the court. This draft also disputes the provision of Article 141b. where the necessary majority is requested, and the procedure for the adoption of the Law on the Control of the Croatian Parliament over the Government's activities in the institutions of the European Union. In the debate so far, first of all in the one expressed through the views of clubs, but also the representatives, of course, we heard different opinions and suggestions on the remaining unconformed initiatives. The solutions proposed to me personally are how they are being stabilized in this draft, which makes them good, correct and acceptable. But of course, if better solutions were offered, and during the debate, they were and I was willing to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54190	Thank you. And now it's the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54191	Thank you very much. The change in the Constitution should be the result of consensus. So, not only the political consensus of the parties within Parliament, but also the broadest consensus as public as possible. It's done through a public hearing. It would be good for this draft amendment to the Constitution to pass a public debate in those parts, at least in which there are still some disputes or different opinions. The constitution certainly changes 2/3 by most, which means it is impossible to change it without the agreement of major political actors in the country. What does the deal mean? He means above all good intentions and honesty. That is to hear the other, to respect the other, and to receive his suggestions in good faith, as well as to propose the suggestions that any party makes in good faith. Is it always like that with these changes of ours? A deal has been reached on the most controversial thing. It is a way of voting our citizens who live outside the Republic of Croatia and the number of MPs they choose in this House. I also consider this agreement crucial to the adoption of this Constitution, and I consider it a very good solution. But on the sidelines of the amendments to the Constitution and in the public parallel with constitutional changes, some other initiatives arise that question whether this agreement has been reached with good intentions and in fair intentions. Why? We've heard suggestions that we should reduce the number of MPs in this House. In itself, the idea may not be bad. The constitution says between 100 and 150. The Parliament would also perform with 120 MPs, it would also be 100, especially when we know that almost half of them here are not elected, mostly in the assembly. However, it casts a shadow of suspicion of sincere intentions in the conclusion of this agreement. There are now five MPs in the Croatian Parliament who have been elected by voters living outside the Republic of Croatia. At 150, that's 3%. If there are 150 MPs left, and the number decreases to 3 it will be 2%. For example, there is so much in Italy, and that is one appropriate representation. The Italian Lower House has six MPs, chooses 12, means 2%. That's how it would be in the Republic of Croatia. However, if the number of MPs is reduced, while the Constitution remains 3 elected outside the Republic of Croatia, so if this is reduced to 120 MPs, then 3, those 3 are 2 and a half percent. And if it decreases to 100 MPs as much as the Constitution allows, it's 3%. Then it's the condition we have now. So 5 out of 150 or 3 out of 100 is exactly the same, and when we reach agreements here, we want to believe that we achieve them with a side that accepts them in good faith, and that thinks honestly. Some unpleasant surprise that might occur in changing electoral legislation would not honor those who agree with the figure in their pocket. Speaking of the three representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who are elected outside Croatia, it would be even better if we had defined them and defined them. Outside the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens live everywhere in the world, not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it would be good for those three to be elected by the voices of citizens living in the overseas countries of Australia, New Zealand, North and South America. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia also have European countries, it would be good if one of them were their representative, so that one of our citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina would be a representative. This would be one not only reasonable, but one solution, in which one honest, honest intention would be to really represent our citizens living outside Croatia, but to have them all represented. Of course, this issue can be resolved by electoral legislation, and it would be good to resolve it by electoral legislation, in order to remove any doubt, as well as a trail of suspicion that negotiations are being negotiated with unfair intentions. I'm saying that this good intention is the basis of every fair deal. So is the choice of the Constitutional Court judges. A solution has been adopted for judges of the Constitutional Court to be elected by a two-thirds majority in this House. What does a two-thirds majority mean? A necessary consensus, a necessary agreement. At least between the most important partners. But then a turnip is added, which says the term of the eight-year constitutional judge is extended until the entry into office of a new judge who can only be elected by a two-thirds majority. And on what deadline it's extended, it doesn't say here. And if it doesn't write the deadline on which it's extended, then there's no deadline. So this is where this constitutional tail actually introduces the possibility of a life-long renewal of Judge Constitutional Court's duties. What does it look like in practice? There's a Constitutional Court judge on duty who answers, for example. HDZ, or SDP, anyway. He's running out of mandate. The HDZ won't replace him, because it suits him to stay that way. And he will never agree to a two-thirds majority, so that the Nobel laureate may come forward. And so this extends the mandate forever. And the one who suggests it, and I suggest it, and I'm afraid, has no fairest intention of this agreement on constitutional change being pure, quality, fair, and to bring what we can bring out here. And all of this is wrapped up in one cellophane, that it should ensure the functioning of everywhere in the cello of the Venice Commission, in the blatant need to ensure the stability of the Constitutional Court, and behind it lies one of the simplest transparent intentions or can be hidden and this is to keep its judges of the Constitutional Court in office for life. My colleagues, I speak to you from the coalition majority. This trap exists here. Maybe it's just awkward, but let's avoid the awkwardness. Let's avoid the possibility of playing the Constitution that we're now bringing. It's our duty, it's our obligation as an agent. It didn't have to come from bad intentions. But let's not let anyone think of using this in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54192	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, he's the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54193	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You were talking to your colleague about ratios, percentages, representations, etc. In addition to the representatives of the diaspora, therefore, according to special legal provisions and in special constituencies, 13 MPs, 8 representatives of national minorities and 5 MPs from the 11th constituency, etc. were elected at the moment. Diaspora. What is interesting is that all 13 MPs are in the ruling coalition and that, in fact, on the basis of the general equal voting rights of citizens of the Republic of Croatia living in Croatia, we have a minority government, and when we talk about elections, we should also consider it. So every debate in this sense is welcome and legitimate, and the debate on the Constitution is exactly the right place to warn in some way. Because a lot of people say we have a balance, there's going to be a couple of diaspora representatives here, there's going to be a couple of minority representatives, and then there's going to be both sides equal. A couple of members of the diaspora coalition with HDZ, a couple of minority deputies again in the HDZ coalition. I don't see any big balances. And that, too, would not be an argument if such a electoral right were to be challenged or strengthened, it should also be made clear. As regards other types of ratios, so in Croatia, currently a proportional system is in law. There are certain electoral units that we can be honest with each other go to the big parties and regional parties, but it is basically an electoral system, proportionate and now trying to push through the media the idea that both MPs in the 11th and 12th constituency are choosing the majority system in a way that the winner gets everything. Now that would only be unequal or unevenly distributed in these percentages, as you said, because we have two MPs representing 100,000 voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54194	Thank you. Your time is up. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54195	So look at your replica. I see two problems. First, a possible political calculation of the creation of most of these MPs who have been elected outside the Republic of Croatia. I don't think it's a good argument for anyone to change the Constitution. We here must strive to achieve a principled solution. The principled solution must rest on several basiss. First, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to choose and be elected – point. They must, they must be allowed to do so. Another principle that must be in our interest, when it comes to citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia, we must ensure that all these groups are represented in principle. And those in the overseas countries and those in Europe and those in BiH. The account they will make for the parliamentary majority is not good. The same applies to representatives of national minorities. Whether representatives of national minorities will approach this or that parliamentary group elected in parliament, make the government, the ruling coalition or remain in opposition is a matter of their political decision, their political interest. But these figures should not determine content or such thinking, content of the Constitution. The Constitution is a fundamental act, the Constitution is a mirror of a state, the Constitution must be principled. There must be no politics in the Constitution, there must be no calculations in the Constitution. This refers to both the representatives and the judges of the Constitutional Court as I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54196	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54197	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Stazic, I think this issue of extending the mandate of constitutional judges is one of these issues which, as you said, leads to the delusion of those who will read the Constitution. Do we really want to treat the Constitution, that is, to change after the term of office, or to make choices whether old or new judges, but to make choices in that time period, or do we want to extend that mandate to some infinity? Whether it'll be 3 or 6 months, as my colleague Shuica said, in that sense, I don't think it can stand in such a constitutional provision. That's more than I've said before, so we choose both directors and deans, etc., six months before their term of office. And you know who's coming, and the old man's doing his duty. Why can't we do this in one constitutional court, or the highest institution of this state? I think it's a question of the quality of the staff, or people who are going to come to these places, and that the debate on it and the setting of certain requirements on that matter is much more important than this other issue. A question that raises doubt that it is going with good intent to amend this legal, constitutional provision. And we, here, have shown so much of our own well-being and everything else to propose a two-thirds majority, no matter what at a certain moment when we come to power, will surely be one of the more difficult circumstances in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54198	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54199	You're asking your colleague Bodakosh if it's possible to find a solution? Well, of course it's possible. The term of office of the President of the Republic shall be 4 years and shall end with the oath of the new elected 5 years, sorry 5 years and ends a certain date by swearing a newly elected president. [[Intruder: 5 years.]] And the newly elected president is elected month, two earlier and waiting nicely patiently as the elected president to end his mandate. What's the obstacle in doing the same thing with constitutional judges? The excuse to introduce this is due to the constitutional court's stability, so it's a cheap trick. It's a transparent silk behind which you clearly see the real intention. Because there's absolutely no reason for this. The term of office of parliamentary deputies takes 4 years, ends after 4 years – point. No, now it's going to go on if you don't pick it out, and this one, and that one. No, the new one has to be chosen. This forces parliamentarians to agree on a constitutional judge of the new one. They must choose him, if not so they bear responsibility. They mean politically irresponsible, they didn't deserve to be elected here. If I can't reach an agreement on a Constitutional Court judge. To create a smokescreen like this, this kind of fog to enter into the Constitution is completely unnecessary. It points to a bad intention. And I call on the Chairman of the Constitution Committee to see the danger of such an expression and to amend it until the final proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54200	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Chairman of the Committee and Vice-President of the House, the Honorable Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54201	With the greatest indignity, I reject the underprivileged accusations of MP Stazic and some others who are in the proposed formulation that the judges of the Constitutional Court when their term of office expires that they can conduct their duty until the election of the new one that it is a hidden intention of the ruling, that it is HDZ. This is what you have brought to the Committee on the Constitution, not you personally, but it has been presented by other members of the Constitutional Committee, that it is a hidden intention to cement the situation, the existing situation in the Constitutional Court, because, assuming that most of the ruling judges have been elected there, because the two-thirds majority will go, and then the two-thirds majority will never be achieved so that the mandate of the current Constitutional Court judges will be able to proceed indefinitely until someone else is elected, and someone else will not be elected because the ruling majority who is not two-thirds majority will not allow one to be elected. It was already a defect of fellow Stazic's already a defect in your advance you accuse and insinuate that the government's intention and the ruling majority was to advance with such an intention and intention to ensure a permanent term for the current judges of the Constitutional Court or such a term of office in such a long time until the current ruling majority liked it. It is not true, colleague Stazic and colleague Anticevic, it is not true. Your bad intentions are the result of some of your other inner feelings. It's something else entirely. Why are you deaf to arguments, why are you deaf to facts, why are you deaf to the fact that at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's initiative to prevent the constitutional court's blockade in the event of the election of the Constitutional Court judges who would be elected by a two-thirds majority in order not to violate the legality of the Constitutional Court and not to reduce the number of judges if they were not elected. In this direction, and in this direction, this proposal for this constitutional amendment was made, because the Constitutional Court, in its argument and concern to the smooth work of the Constitutional Court, explained in full terms the examples that this is also in line with the standards of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, that what I have stated on the Committee on the Constitution, is that this is also in accordance with one court which has a similar character, which is the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, that, according to the Convention, Article 3(7). The Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which have also been established by the European Court of Human Rights and which are attributed to the conditions for the conduct of the European Court of Human Rights' mandate, shall read Article 23. "The judges remain in office of the European Court of Human Rights until they are replaced," however, they continue to wrap up cases that have begun them. Therefore, in a similar way, the extension of the term of office of judges of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg was resolved in accordance with the Venice Commission standard, which was the basis of the legal basis on which the majority of the Committee proposed that this constitutional provision be introduced just because the Constitutional Court could be resolved in its full composition for the smooth functioning of the Constitutional Court. In doing so, I called for the practice of four countries in Bulgaria, Germany, Spain and Portugal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Bulgarian Constitutional Court Act is prescribed by members of the Constitutional Court to continue to act on their duties until their successors' duties. The German fundamental law or the Constitution does not regulate the possibility of extending the term of office to a constitutional judge, a question governed by federal law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The German Federal Law on the Federal Constitutional Court states: "After the end of the term of office, the judge continues to conduct his duties until the appointment of the heirs", to read this to you in the German original, the title of the original in Germany, the number of the German official list and the rest. Portugal, the Portuguese Constitution does not regulate the extension of the term of office of the Constitutional Judges, this is a matter governed by the Law on the Constitutional Court of Portugal, Article 21 which regulates the duration of the term of office of the Constitutional Judges, Article 21(1) of that Law, reads: "the duration of the term of office, the judges of the Constitutional Court shall be appointed for a period of nine years counting from the date of entry into office and their duties shall cease when the judge appointed to the vacancy takes office". The Spanish mouth also does not regulate the possibility of extending the mandate of the Constitutional Judges, it is governed by the Organic Law. Organic law on the Constitutional Court in Article 7. 17, it regulates the duration of the Constitutional Judges' term of office, and Article 2 of Article 17 of that Law reads: "The Constitutional Court judges continue to exercise their duties until they are taken over by their successors." Therefore, the intensities of these four laws, Germany, Bulgaria, Portugal, Spain, as well as the practice and standards of the Venice Commission are just heading towards the fact that, as a result of some procedural reasons between the parliament elected by the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court, there is a single stalemate that cannot be elected by the Constitutional Court to try to resolve this in this way that the Constitutional Court judge to whom the term of office has expired continues to act until another judge of the Constitutional Court is elected. That was the intention and not the motive, which was some hidden which fellow Stazic and colleagues Antičević imputed to us, it was the proposaler's intention just as it was the proposaler's intention in these four countries, as was the proposaler's intention in the standards of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe. However, there is something else and we have now agreed in these discussions that and we have submitted the Club of Representatives of the HDZ has submitted an amendment that six months until the end, six months until a new one is selected. But one step further should be taken on the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, which is adopted by the same two-thirds majority. It should be regulated, I would say that at least a year before the Constitutional Court's term of office expires, the procedure and the procedure for running, the appointment and election of the Constitutional Judge to the place where the term of office will expire. And we need to arrange that constitutional law on the Constitutional Court. This must primarily be arranged for at least a year before the procedure is started and that it is then required to take place within that year in that procedure to reach the required two-thirds majority. And this should continue with this constitutional court law that should be followed after the amendments to the Constitution. Now let's introduce this proposal to the Constitution that 6 months is going on, it is probably the amendment already sent and I have spoken with the president of your party and with Milanovic and others in that direction to go with that amendment. So don't keep knocking on the open door and imploding to HDZ that he had evil and unfair intentions. We had no intention, the only intention was to find a mechanism as happy as it is capable, but to find a mechanism that would not lead to blockage and a mastery of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54202	Thank you very much. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations, the first honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54203	It's an incorrect claim from Vice President Shakespeare that my remark was malignory. On the contrary, she's well-intentioned, and that's what I said in the debate. Don't let a bad interpretation of a bad provision. It's also an incorrect claim that I'm in advance. I'm warning you in advance. Because warning an event after it had already happened would not only be pointless but not intelligent. It must be warned in advance. You're saying this initiative comes from the Constitutional Court. My team's even more suspicious. Well, it's an interest of constitutional judges to extend their mandate if they don't choose a new one. Well, that's their interest. As representatives of citizens, we do not have to respect this initiative as a representative home. Especially if she's as unreasonable as this one. And I didn't say that to you at first, but I'll be at the end of this correction. You say that such a solution exists in Germany, Bulgaria, Spain and Portugal. Maybe, but there's no HDZ in those countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54204	Thank you very much. I think a comment like this should be an answer right now, but there's no SDP either. And where does that lead? Why are we doing this? We're talking here about the Constitution of people about the Constitution. And that just confirms that Vice President Shakespeare was right. The second correction of the incorrect quote is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54205	...the vice president in Portugal is being replaced by the Socialists and the Social Democrats in power, so your claim is not entirely correct. So I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that there were hidden intentions. I don't think there were any hidden intentions, the intentions were open, we warned them, you corrected your position accordingly, which is good, and you gave this 6-month provision. And as for the overly frequent invitation to the Venice Commission. You know, in Bulgaria, Portugal and Germany, the judges of the constitutional court were not elected in the way they were elected by us, so in those countries it was not difficult to extend. And then when these constitutional judges are elected by a two-thirds majority, I believe that it will not be difficult to extend the Croatian Assembly either. Well, don't get too attached to the Venice Commission because it's my only association with the Merchant Merchants, and I don't think we are, and I don't think we should discuss it more specifically if we find a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54206	Don't even go to the Milky Way. Let's move on. And the third correction to the incorrect allegations is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54207	...wrong but my colleague Shakespeare was wrong, so I have to correct his incorrect allegations because the recommendations of the Venice Commission misread it and correct it. In fact, the recommendations of the Venice Commission do not contain any such wording of the principled provision, that is, the recommendation to which fellow Shakespeare is called, but stands... Therefore, due to the inactivity of the denominator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you'd have a problem with great activity, because this one would want this one, this one would want that candidate. That's the problem. So, that's what a good colleague Shakespeare needs to look at. But I don't think it's weird that my colleague Shakespeare made a mistake, because it's still the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which the HDZ in the opposition times better judged than the Venice Commission itself, and now it's a little harder in these times after 13 years and reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54208	Your time is up and I thank you for the correction. Let's move on with the debate. It's our guest, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If the views surrounding the Venice Commission have agreed, we may need authentic interpretation, because everyone likes to be called upon as needed and then to interpret the recommendations of the Venice Commission to whom it suits. But here we are today in the debate on the serious act of amending the Constitution that we are discussing today the 4th time, because it is a complicated procedure of amending and supplementing the Constitution as it should be for the fundamental act of a state and the most serious act that we bring into this assembly. So we can say that in these four discussions and today we have mostly agreed in this Croatian Assembly in most of the provisions. And the amendments contained in this draft are contained mainly in the need for constitutional legal adaptation to join the European Union either as the removal of constitutional obstacles, or as the opening of constitutional opportunities for direct harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union. But these changes include some changes resulting from other initiatives, but we can also indirectly say that they contribute to the credibility of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. provide additional constitutional guarantees of respect for the rights of national minorities, the fight against all forms of crime and corruption and the independence of the judiciary. These days we have heard in public and somewhere on television that it is untasteful or rude to Croatian citizens as a reason to amend the Constitution to quote the entry into the European Union, interpreting it as an unspeakable obedience to Europe as something which imposes on us an imaginary European force, etc. I personally don't see anything controversial about it. Why? Because we bear in mind that a political consensus has been reached in Croatia on the accession of the European Union, and then it is normal for the legislator to do everything in the framework of constitutional changes to remove constitutional and legislative obstacles both for the adoption of the legal gain of the European Union and for the regulation of ways in which the sovereignty of the referendum issue is partially transferred and, of course, for the improvement of Croatian citizens, because we always say that Croatia's entry into the European Union is not a purpose but the purpose of improving Croatian citizens by entering a regulated European legal system, the area of high democratic standards, the single area of economic prosperity. So in part of these other changes that are not necessary to join the European Union, there is therefore a complement to the original grounds that cover all minorities in the Republic of Croatia in order to bring about an equal position of their representatives in the legislative authority, then by introducing a constitutional basis for the prosecution and not obsolescence of the criminal acts of war profiting committed in the process of conversion and privatisation, thus eliminating the injustice that perpetrators of criminal offences are left unpunished for the most serious crimes. That was a lot of talk about whose proposal it was, so the president of the SDP said in the last debate that the HDZ had now matured, and I would say that it was probably matured, because in the constitutional changes of 2000 and 2001 there was no such provision, but as time seems to be running out, and that it would be possible to remain unpunished, or that there would be no property benefit taken away, which was mainly acquired by those crimes as the main motive for them, then it is now proposed, and I think it is a good thing that we still have one mechanism that we are not helpless that the person who committed the crime for him will answer. In this part, too, as a further democratic and civilizational achievement, it is certainly also the introduction of a constitutional guarantee of the right to access information that does not already depend on the future will of the political majority in this House but that this right is guaranteed by the Constitution. Also, the right to open the way to a higher level or to a multi-annual compulsory education, given new technologies and new demands of working in the world, I also think it is good. Here in this section we also come up with these famous conditions for selecting constitutional judges. I think it's a good idea for constitutional judges to choose 2/3 of the majority, which means that a political consensus must be reached on their election and given the nature and integrity of the Constitutional Court itself, I think that's good. Of course, the condition of 2/3 of the majority is a strict condition and it is harder to achieve it and I would not say that it is a selfish interest of the Constitutional Court. Namely, the interest of the Constitutional Court is that it can function uninterruptedly. Probably because of some examples from the European environment, I think it happened in Hungary, the long-term blockade of the constitutional court due to the failure to elect new judges. Then a single fuse was proposed in such a way that the Constitutional Court would not remain in the back of the system. I think, of course, that this solution to prolonging the ad-infinitum extension of the constitutional judges' mandate could lead to abuse, and therefore I think that a compromise and a good solution is that in the event of inactivity of the one who needs to be elected by the Constitutional Judges, and this means a non-contracting politically, then it can be extended to that mandate, but to be in one limited duration. In this part, too, which is not a commitment to the accession of the European Union, and as regards these obligations for the European Union, I think we have all reached a consensus here, is a provision on the Supreme Court, and this in the professional public has prompted a lot of debate on whether the President of the Supreme Court, as proposed, should have submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament. Of course, there are complaints about meddling in the independence of the judiciary. I'd say the current article 4. The constitution says that the government is, of course, divided into legislative, executive and judicial, but paragraph 2 says the principle of government division includes forms of mutual cooperation and mutual checks and therefore certain information to the public on the state of the judiciary would not be opt-out. This is what other European countries have in such or similar forms in part of the Supreme Court Act, and by no means and no one wanted to interfere in independence in the trial. And finally, let me just say two words because time is running out, so that change that so far has not been in the proposal. I personally represented the view that it was neither necessary nor necessary, which is Article 45, because the current constitutional provision also opens up opportunities that could have been settled by law. But since the SDP and HDZ have set off from completely opposite positions and the HNS of course, which is that HDZ holds that the right of every Croatian citizen or citizen of Croatia to have an electoral right of nationality to an entirely opposite position under which those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not live in Croatia fully deny such right. Since the meaning of the Constitution, its adoption and the modification of the 2/3 majority is precisely to provoke and secure political consensus, here is the final consensus, so it is important for me personally, and it is important for us that Croatian citizens who do not live in Croatia are not deprived of the right to vote, and the way to choose and the quota is a compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54210	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed colleague Lovrin spoke well of the reasons for Croatia's entry into the European Union by showing an idealistic picture of the European Union itself that actually does not correspond to reality. Croatia should, in fact, enter the European Union because it will achieve certain national interests, including better living standards and the safety of its citizens. Whether this will depend primarily on ourselves and not on the European Union. By entering the European Union, Croatian athletes will not run faster, nor Croatian poets will write nicer songs, nor will Croatian swimmers swim faster. And there will also be a situation in the Croatian economy. To the extent to which it is organised on a new large market, it will also receive certain positive effects as a consequence of Croatia's entry into the European Union. But when it comes to the non-exhaustion of crimes committed in conversion and privatisation, the question is actually something else. Although there is a broad consensus there on the fact that this should not be out of date with it, I agree. But the question is, I am convinced by the lawyers of another nature, which is whether laws can be passed with retroactive action, which is one serious legal issue. Secondly, whether in Croatia at this time, because most of these crimes are fat in old age there is adequate documentation, because they did not have to be kept under existing laws, and then, as a consequence, it can happen that only those cases for which they are relevant, and for those who do not correspond, there is no relevant documentation and cannot be realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54212	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54213	Thank you very much. Well, of course the entry itself won't mean the magic wand itself, but as you said opening opportunities and the fact is that you wanted me to admit it or not to enter a more regulated legal space, into more standards and that we have already improved our standards and standards in Croatia precisely because we wanted to reach this goal. I'm not saying that, of course, and we always say that we do it for our citizens' sake, but this motive further speeds us up in this business. As far as non-depreciation is concerned, it is indeed a major legal issue. There is also general opposition in the professional public and an age-old material and legal or procedural law institute. Can it be applied to those acts that are already out of date, so if and not then they will apply to those who are not yet, and of course the time in each of the proceedings makes it difficult to process it because it is harder to obtain evidence, it is harder to preserve them. So it's a common-known thing. But this allows that if he still has the opportunity to avoid justice, or not to remain unpunished and to remain with the benefit of that crime someone who has committed a crime to open up an additional possibility that he is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54214	Thank you. I am notifying the honourable MPs and MPs, that tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. there is a vote on the establishment of the Draft Constitution, so please be all present. Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54215	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think there's a lot that's already been said in today's debate by both the club representatives and the individual debate and, of course, by our Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. But I would also specifically refer to this part concerning the amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In fact, it is really trying to place the thesis in the public that we are under some and someone's pressure, as my colleague Lovrin has already said, who has well noticed that it is not true. In fact, we've defined ourselves in that direction. We have also opted for a political consensus in the Croatian Parliament and on the National Committee that monitors negotiations with the European Union. We have defined that our goal, the political goal of making Croatia a member of this alliance. So, to become a member of the European Union as it has become in the case of the NATO Alliance. So that's our political commitment that we've achieved, I'd say, the story of a great consensus, some of us sitting here might not support that. But you are indeed in the minority, and I am sure that this part of constitutional change and this draft will be adopted I would say to the vast majority and certainly two-thirds majority. This part concerning the European Union is also directly linked to the conclusion of the negotiations and to the closure of the chapter. So, in order to be able to come into a position to complete negotiations and sign an accession agreement with the European Union, we need to close certain chapters. And the specific amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are a prerequisite, so the criteria for closing certain chapters. So, directly the criteria are set as criteria for certain chapters that we are negotiating, which we are still negotiating and closing, which means that in that case, the closure of these chapters depends on us. It depends exclusively, therefore, on the decision of the Croatian Parliament to bring the Croatian Constitution into line with the legislation of the European Union. So, with the legal gain. In particular, I will mention only one of these amendments to the European arrest warrant is directly bound as a criterion for closing chapters. So we are simply the ones who decide when those chapters will be closed. In this respect, we must really do everything and I am sure that it will be after today's debate in fact that all those who participated in the debate mostly support the debate and support these amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and I am quite sure and confident that these proposals will come to the final result, I would say almost unanimously. We will not unanimously because some have already pleaded against, but I say almost unanimously what I am pleased to say is that, in this way, we will speed up the negotiation process ourselves and achieve those preconditions that are needed to bring the negotiation process to an end in a more casual way. And in that sense, I am quite certain and I believe in those and what Mrs Kosor said, which is that by the end of this month we could open the remaining three chapters especially after the referendum that was in Slovenia. So that's Chapter 31-- Foreign and Security Policy, Chapter 23. – The judiciary and fundamental human rights and Chapter 8 so all three chapters can certainly and we are ready to open. At the same time, parallel to that, certain chapters will be closed. We expect four to five chapters to be closed already this month and thus we will reach more than 2/3 of closed chapters, which means Croatia's really accelerated path towards the conclusion of negotiations with the European Union. However, in order for the Constitution to adapt to the future situation of membership in the European Union, a completely new head is introduced, Chapter 7A is the European Union, I will list the titles that are related to that head, which is firstly, the first title is the legal basis of membership and the transfer of constitutional powers, that is clear what this part refers to, second participation in the institutions of the European Union, so in the European Parliament and other institutions, the third law of the European Union, and the fourth thing that is important for our citizens and for our citizens, for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that is the right of citizens of the European Union. All citizens of the Republic of Croatia will become a full member of the European Union on the day that Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union, they will, of course, become citizens of the European Union and enjoy the rights guaranteed by the acquis of the European Union. Therefore, it is something of course that all citizens will need to know about, I hope in one communication with the public, which will certainly be even more intense in the coming period, that Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens, will actually see what are all the benefits, which the benefits are related to and with the rights of them as future citizens of the European Union. Of course, other than these, I would say European issues, which are why we are changing the Constitution, there are also issues that will certainly mean a greater standard and better functioning of Croatia as a democratic state, in total and in this sense all the amendments and additions that are proposed in this draft, I absolutely support and I am sure that some of them will produce results. When I say this first of all, I am referring to the addition of Article 31 to the new sentence, paragraph 4, which provides for the non-depreciation of war profits, and criminal acts from the process of conversion and privatisation. I really expect this not to remain a dead letter on paper, but to really be the basis for some crimes involving both war profit and war profit, and especially criminal acts from the process of conversion and privatisation in order to simply punish itself, in order to see justice in the jurisprudence of the court. This is indeed the basis for discussing some cases that have been thought to be simply closed books and that they will no longer be spoken of because the time period in which possible criminal acts could be discussed has elapsed. So this is certainly a step forward and, as has already been said, this is our position, the attitude of the Croatian Democratic Community and those who have tried to attribute it to themselves, they have had opportunities already in the previous amendments to the Constitution which has not been adopted in the way in which these changes will be made today, and today's draft amendments and additions. It was not exactly consensually adopted and not exactly the strongest political options involved in creating these constitutional changes. Therefore, it is certain that the Croatian Democratic Community wants this to be brought to life as soon as possible and that we can see the results of these changes and additions as soon as possible. Here in this sense I am finally convinced that the privatisation of hotels in Dubrovnik and around Dubrovnik will again be the subject of some institutions in the Croatian state, because the public knows a lot about them, but unfortunately they did not experience the word of the court, and it is also quite certain that those people who were hiding behind the famous password who put up the pits would not sleep peacefully after these changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I am convinced that these changes give all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia an even more quality foundation of the state document, so the Constitution which is regulated and all their rights, which I have not talked about, as is the particular right to access to information, so then judicial immunity, state's attorney's status, the State's Attorney's Council, the Croatian National Bank, so all this is, in some way, a step forward, an improvement, and I am convinced that we will really, very much, adopt this proposal and adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54216	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54217	Thank you very much. Well, here's the public doing, I must say, you mentioned a fellow European arrest warrant. Yesterday I accidentally watched on Croatian television one show in which three philosophers spoke, but literally the philosopher talked about constitutional changes, one of which seemed to me to be a writer and a professor, so after he insulted all of us because he said that constitutional changes were spoken by people who were not able to say 20 sentences in a row, so a series of ugly meals, he asked one citizen who asked what it was with extradition, and what I would give up to everyone and anyone who wanted to. So, I repeat every serious state, every serious state protects its citizens and doesn't extradite them unconditionally to other countries for reasons of unequal legal systems, so at the request of a Taliban state, we would hand over someone who was there who didn't know how to drink any alcohol or so on. It is therefore that we are introducing this possibility to open the extradition of our citizens exclusively to the countries of the European Union, thinking that we are entering a single legal space, with equal legal standards and mutual recognition of our decisions, whether in execution or for prosecution. Equally, the possibility of a contract being concluded by the States and the extradition contract is concluded when they are convinced and when they gain mutual trust in their judicial systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54218	Replica reply, distinguished representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54219	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it is quite clear that these people are obviously not really familiar with what is going to happen and what is happening and what is happening in particular with the amendments and additions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in such a way that speaking is absolutely below what they can afford, of course we in the Croatian Parliament must be far more responsible for the changes and additions themselves, but also to the Croatian public when we talk about something and certainly much more argumentative than they did when they talked about these issues and address the Croatian public. But I would say that this part will also improve, and I am sure with this better communication with the public and on the public media and on us in the Croatian Parliament and on the Committees and on all of us, it is up to us to improve this communication with the public so that we can better explain to people everything about the accession of the European Union but of course all the legal gains we have accepted through the integration process with the European Union. In this sense, I am sure that these people who are highly educated will also understand what this is about and that they will not give such flat-rate and inappropriate assessments about the accession of the European Union and, of course, the work in the Croatian Parliament, because we all know what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54220	Thank you. I have an announcement. Tomorrow, on Thursday, June 10th, at 9:30 in the building of the Croatian Parliament in the hall "Ivan Mažuranić", the 84th hall will be held, the 51st session of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, the president, Mr. Vladimir Seks, will be convened. Please respond. We're moving on with the debate. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54221	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I listened carefully to all the discussions, there were those who were reasonable and correct, there were those who were not like that and we are talking about the parts of the debate concerning the right of Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia. The question on the one hand was reopened in a reasonable way on the other hand completely unacceptable and in a way that brings nothing and benefits no one. In any case, I welcome the decision of the strongest opposition parties, clearly spoken here by their president and by most SDP MPs, that the issue of voting by citizens outside the Republic of Croatia with permanent residence outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia is not questionable and that it is simply something that is generally accepted and that this issue will no longer be opened. And in fact, this Agreement, which also deals with these amendments and additions that we are talking about today, will be a guarantee that it will no longer simply open that question and that it will be arranged in a way that will no longer be a struggle but that it will actually be permanently resolved once and for all. I will say in this debate what I agree with, which I think would significantly improve this proposal and what I think would be really necessary. In view of the literature that deals with the so-called so-called literature. The external vote could in fact argue that this vote begins from the time of independence of one of the 1862 US states and then raises the question of tradition, so this kind of vote in New Zealand and Australia, especially when it comes to sailors, then the issue of the vote of soldiers during World War 1 and 2, and then, over time, almost all countries that have a large number of their people outside the borders accept it as a legal and legitimate method and use it in their legislation. So in '78, the Spanish introduced, '93, Americans in '75, Germany in '80, Japan in '90, etc. What exactly is the outside vote? So these are procedures and voting procedures for permanent residents abroad. How can it be voted, how can these people be participated in the vote? So, I can do as is now foreseen in diplomatic consular offices, so the world knows the methods of so-called. However, almost all countries that have allowed their citizens outside the country of origin to vote in parliamentary, presidential and any election, allow, with a vote in diplomatic consular representations and a correspondence vote. So, I know it was a challenge when it comes to SDP and HDZ on this issue, because the SDP had come from the assumption that a letter vote could possibly manipulate, etc., and they had no good faith in the proposed proposal, so they rejected it in their own way. However, by establishing the so-called fixed quotas of three MPs I think that the issue has been resolved in terms of all doubts and any objections of that kind. But there remains one question that is doubtless dubious. If you have allowed people to vote in diplomatic consular offices, and given the distance, the distances in which Croats live around the world, were they in Australia, Canada, America, and those in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then it is absolutely unacceptable not to allow them to vote in a letter. So there are many countries that have actually allowed such a way of voting. Among them is Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Italy, Ireland, Germany, India, including Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we can't accept the argument that it's not good to allow people to participate and we've given them that opportunity, it would be equal to giving people health care, sharing health cards, but we say they'll only be treated in some big centres. Therefore, we will personally, as president of the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia and colleagues Vukic, go with an amendment that will actually foresee that kind of vote. Nothing will change after that, after that it will remain the same, so there is no speech about any abuse in question or anything but simply that mechanism will allow people access and provide basic democratic right and that is the right to access to vote and to exercise that right. I will appeal very briefly to this international recent literature that speaks of the right of that right, which is why it is based on it. It is based on universal law associated with other principles of democratic voting rights, based on the law, on strengthening political influence, on increasing the legitimacy of the democratic system, so-called. democratic consolidation. So these are all the reasons why it is very important to actually consider this issue in a way that simply enables people who have the right to vote to do so. Here they spoke to their colleagues and raised some more questions, referred to two questions. One is what my colleague Stazic opened here when he spoke of representation, one just, just, or I would say perhaps optimal representation of Croatian citizens living outside the country of Croatia, and spread across the planet. So you said it would be good if there was a representative from, say, Australia, Canada, I don't know where it came from either. I absolutely agree with that proposal and I support it. However, we must open the issue to the end and honestly. If we're really going to stand out here for an open approach, then the question is, why don't we just have one MP from BiH, or here's to be 2, let's be 1. Why should the Croatian national minority not be represented by one representative? Why shouldn't the rest of Europe have one? In that case, Australia one, Canada one? Then we'd have 5, we couldn't have 3 just. So we can't, on the one hand, disable that right and condition it with 3, and then ask that question in the way that you asked it and say that those 3 should be deployed here now, there and question the choice of that representative by that and its legitimacy by whether it is actually from here or from there and whether it represents this one or that? And that would be the same if I asked the question of the legitimacy of any of you MPs from a particular place because that MP did not come from every single place from the county he represented, but all of his representatives voted for him. Finally, counterpart Pusic said today a sentence that surprised me that she had spoken, when she said literally this way: "What benefit did the representatives benefit, which benefit the citizens of BiH, or the Croats in BiH, by being represented in the Croatian Parliament?" So that question is absolutely, absolutely out of context, out of place, and there's just no basis in anything. First of all, the question of representation and the question of benefits is understood. However, it is not necessary for one another to be connected. What does that mean? This means that I could then ask the question of what is the question, or what is the benefit of the MPs who are here in opposition from being someone's representatives? On the other hand, it is well known, and I would like to make it plain here that the various projects that Croatia has made towards the Croats are specifically in BiH, among other things, in health infrastructure and in terms of education, university, when it comes to cultural and other types of cooperation and support, have been launched and representatives elected from BiH. So there's no point in saying that it wasn't as good as any, but at the same time there's no place to ask that question because it's actually absolutely deplaced. Once again and finally, if we have agreed on this issue, so if we have settled big things with this issue and there are no more disputes, I hope that it will not be in the future and that the question of the vote of Croatian citizens outside Croatia will actually be something that connects us all here in the Parliament and the whole of Croatia, not something that divides us. And finally, once again, I pray, honestly, I don't think there's any reason why when the quota has already been fixed, when an agreement of that kind has already been reached, then because of the legitimacy of these people, it would be good for us to also allow for a letter vote, i.e. by a post office that is actually a civilizational reach and used by all European countries. So why don't you use Croatia as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54222	Thank you very much. Your time is up. We have four replicas now. The first is Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54223	This is how Mr. Bagaric said that there were reasonable and correct discussions here in the Parliament, I quote, normally I did not use the institute to correct the incorrect allegations because I want Mr. Bagaric to answer me the same, and there were other discussions. However, he found that the diaspora vote here in this House was generally accepted. I think there are some of us who are against it. And finally, Mr. Bagaric, why don't we go to a referendum in front of Croatian citizens and see how Croatian citizens would vote on such a resolution? I assure you, Mr. Bagaric, that Croatian citizens would be against it. Don't say it would be unreasonable then, as you have concluded, if in a referendum it were voted in Croatia against such an option. That wouldn't even be counter-constitutional. Why? So we had the election in the '90s, we had the election for the president in '92, for the County House of the Croatian Parliament in '93, for the Parliament or the House of Representatives in '92. And no one claimed that these choices were unconstitutional. So the Constitution isn't as controversial as that. I'm not going to say that by voting like that, we're kind of breaking up a country, God forbid. But the truth is, and that's not disputed, I'm going to talk about it in an individual debate, that we're breaking the principle of general and equal voting rights. I absolutely respect your choice in BiH, yesterday for HDZ, you voted in favour of Mr Bandic. Well done, hat down! You voted for yours, but the question is also why don't you admit who did the most damage to you down in BiH? And I claim those who have implemented the policies of Banska Hrvatska. Therefore, to help the citizens of BiH to always, but I claim that your elections for the Croatian Parliament or for the president of the state or in a referendum in Croatia are in no way... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54224	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54225	Well, my dear Damier, you can think whatever you want, but I know that you, when it comes to BiH, are completely wrong. I've asked you several times and offered you frankly let's go through BiH to see BiH a little, not to talk about it with a movie, from a book and without any experience. You didn't accept it, you told me that you were twice or three, I don't know, in Tuzla and where else. See, I live there all the time. Therefore, the claim, thus, was done to the Croats in BiH... So let me answer... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54226	I was in the army in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54227	No benching.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54228	... So don't shut me down, Damir, brother. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54229	I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54230	You did. Well, you've been in the hall for a long time now so you should know when you press your microphone to shut down mine. Therefore, damage to Croats in BiH and Bosnia and Herzegovina has been caused by large-scale Serbian aggression. Hence, all others are the consequences of this aggression. When it comes to the referendum you're talking about, I'll ask you one thing. Let's make a referendum and ask a referendum question whether more groups of citizens in Croatia should be privileged as they are, so we would see the answer. However, I think the right of these people is more important than the right to lead politics and raise tensions among people that they vote counter. On the other hand, I agree with that, but let's make a referendum among all Croats in the world and see what the result would be. So don't plant it. So you have Croatia Croatia, you have Croatia outside Croatia. You don't care. I'm very interested in that one. Therefore, I do not accept absolutely your excuses and you have no right and we have not all voted for Bandic, I welcome those who are but I welcome those who are not and those who voted for Andrija Hebrang... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54231	Thank you. Time's up. Further replica, dear Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54232	I have to admit, I don't understand you. This constitutional solution on how to vote the citizens of the Republic of Croatia outside the country is the result of the agreement. It's not any natural right. There is an examination of the public change that says that two thirds of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are living here against such a right. And what Cain said was that a referendum was being conducted among them and that mandatory referendum he would have to enter into electoral legislation and there would be no such right. So that's the result of the compromise. I can still understand that you're discussing how you're discussing it, but you've given the amendment, and that's why I'm reporting to you on the line. The deal was reached between HDZ President, your party's president and SDP President Milanovic. You obviously don't accept that deal. There was also a letter vote on the table when it was debated and it fell off. The rest is this solution that has been agreed upon. You, by amendment, reject a harmonised solution. You presidents of your party say with this amendment what you've agreed, it's none of my business. I'm asking that the amendment settles it differently. And this debate between colleagues Bagaric and this amendment of yours has brought about a confusion as to whether the agreement is valid, whether he was sincere, whether he was well-intentioned, or whether you are revoking your position with your amendment, the agreement reached by the president of your party, Mrs. Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54233	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54234	First of all, I would answer this part of the question of the referendum on which you have shown dissatisfaction that even Croats outside Croatia have the right to vote and on this basis you base that right. You see, I hardly met anyone who talked to me who had a positive opinion about all the representatives in the Croatian Parliament. However, they have a legitimate right to be in the Parliament and no one should question that. As many other questions cannot happen that if you offered citizens to choose this or what they would choose exactly the opposite of what is someone's right. Therefore, you have no right to insist on this. When it comes to this amendment, however I think it is an honest agreement between Mrs Kosor and Mr Milanovic and this amendment is sincere. And now I'm going to tell you how. So by offering HDZ a letter vote before this agreement as a solution, you refused. You turned him down because you thought, you assumed then HDZ or I don't know who the Croats outside Croatia will have here I don't know how many MPs. After all, when you accepted the proposal, or when the proposal was agreed with three MPs, you no longer have any argument, without allowing these people to be selected legitimately by the same number of votes as the representatives in Croatia. Be careful, you and I are sitting with the same number of votes we received in the Croatian Parliament. However, tomorrow it may happen that someone does not sit with the same number of votes and then someone, among other things, will come to you, that they do not have the same legitimacy as the one chosen here. And my intention is only to make it possible for these people to be, as well as those three, not those six, but three to be elected with a number of votes, because it would confirm their legitimacy, allow people to vote easier, not have to travel, and we would all actually be more expensive together. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54235	Thank you. Time's up. Don't throw it away, please. Now it's up to the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54236	Thank you. Here's Vice President one replica of my colleague Bagaric. So I think we're going from two opposing positions and that actually these constitutional changes are one compromise between those two opposing positions. Our position is that citizenship and voting rights are not connected, and your view is that they are connected. And that was the initial attitude. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, citizenship and voting rights are not linked, because you must have a residence in Bosnia and Herzegovina to vote in Bosnia and Herzegovina's organs. Which means. ... That's what the Deion Agreement says. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54237	So don't throw it out of the bench, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54238	As far as other matters are concerned, once a compromise is made and the compromise is these three MPs, because we are aware that they can be 6 and that they can be zero and that it is equally legitimate and both, then we can agree on how to exercise that right. What we represent is that the elections take place in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, that it is several places in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the Republic of Croatia knows what is left. The fact is that certain irregularities that have been there can't be an argument that the electoral right is being disputed and that's where I fully agree with you every time you react. It is also a fact that the Croatian state has not set up 123 polling stations on its own, but that it has obtained the consent of the foreign ministry authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that they can object to themselves as well, because it is known that the foreign ministry is controlling Mr Silajdzic's party and then by some coalition agreement it missed it even though Mr Silajdzic may have missed it but there is no need to move on. However, the fact that what has now happened to this compromise is one responsibility of the two major parties that have changed their initial position and reached one agreement that Croatia will change the Constitution...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54239	Thank you. Time's up. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54240	It is more important than what I answer, my colleague Arsen, to you now that I call from here, because I think it is tied to each other, for future parliamentary elections, all those people who are from Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially exiles and live in Croatia, that they can vote in parliamentary elections, that they can register and that they do not have to be registered in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So they must either have a ID card, or a passport, or just a document that confirms they are citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So let's not confuse people. So we invite people all of those people who are particularly exiled from the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and now live in Croatia so that they can register and that their voice can be heard there. That's true. It's not true. On the other hand, I understand you can't know all that, but let's just try to make things clear to the end. On the other hand, I repeat, no one disputes this deal, nor do I dispute it. I simply believe, be careful after you have refused, however, without your support, this amendment cannot go through, so it is not worth it to me to go into any conflict with you at all. But that's why I'm asking you, so I'm asking you, since you've been refused first and foremost to vote in the mail by yourself for some other imaginary or real fear. Now there's no more fear. Now there are three MPs to be elected. And what's the reason now that they wouldn't allow people to vote like gentlemen in the mail, as many other countries do? 115 countries in the world have regulated this issue in one way or another, so what is the reason why we do not accept it and not allow our citizens the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54241	Thank you. And the fourth replica, the esteemed representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Kolega Bagarić, you have made a lot of reference in your presentation to the model of post-election for the diaspora that I consider absolutely acceptable with this, with one big difference that I do not think should have agreed to any variation in the number of parliamentary MPs who are elected from the diaspora to less than 8 or just as many national minorities have because it then creates the possibility of a balance of relations in this parliament, so also in Croatian political life. But when it comes to diaspora... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54243	Don't throw it away!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54244	Dear colleague Cain, here's my thanks for this...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54245	Dear Representative Cain, without throwing away, and I beg you without controversy in the bench. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54246	Thank you very much. Since I am neither my family from Bosnia and Herzegovina, but neither has my party ever had a single parliamentary representative from the diaspora, but I recognize the problem and recognize the need. And it would be very good, and if Croatia did not forget the fact that the Croatian diaspora has always, ever been about money, balanced the balance of payments by foreign foreign foreign foreign currency. This is the answer to those who believe that the question is only where who pays the tax, but also on the other hand in the Homeland War without diaspora Croatia would pay it with a greater number of lives of the victims of Croatian citizens and soldiers. So I'm glad you submitted this amendment. I'll support him, even though I'd be glad if you didn't step away from him in case he didn't accept and don't support this either...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54247	Thank you. No coaxing. Now is the answer, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54248	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You see, I have no doubt that this amendment, I hope first of all, but I sincerely hope, if SDP really wants to close this issue, then they will accept this amendment. And why, because then the issues that can be opened if not for those people have the kind of approach that people have and if not for those MPs to be chosen by the same number of votes as everyone else. Therefore, there is no reason not to do so, but if it is not done now, I have no doubt that it will be done once in the future. Why? Well, because that's the trend in the world. So we can't go back to sending mail to pigeons when we now use e-mails as a means. If the world accepts a letter vote, even so-called and Voting, so by computer or I don't know how technology is progressing, so what do we expect to make Croats from the world come or travel 2,000 miles to vote. And on the other hand, globalisation has done its part, and the world has become a global village. This is a process that goes, which is not Croatian, it is recognizable around the world and increasingly takes hold. So that's the future. No matter how this amendment ends, I know that one day it will also be adopted again in this Croatian Assembly. We better adopt him now than later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54249	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Otherwise, he's still nine, and that's what we'll end up with. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54250	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. We have a very important job ahead of us because I think I will not be wrong if I say that not every meeting of the Croatian Parliament has had the opportunity to discuss the necessary changes to the Constitution as the one in which we are sitting now. This is not the first change of course of the Constitution, but it covers not only those issues that are very important in the process of joining Croatia in the European Union but also fortunately a whole series of other issues that have waited for years for their solution. The truth of the will should be said that from the very beginning there was one pressure to enter these amendments and the additions of the Constitution only and exclusively within a limited range so that it would allow the Republic of Croatia to enter the European Union as easily as possible, and all other issues were declared irrelevant or remethylative factor at such an important time in which Croatia must think about the timing of the European Union's association. Not only have these voices been heard from political circles where it is legitimate of course to try to disabling another political party with such arguments, unfortunately they have also been heard from some people we held to constitutional experts. So one of the arguments was that these were now some new topics that came out and that would spread the story and spread the debate about the Constitution meant actually opening Pandora's box. Obviously, if there is any need to mention Pandora's box, that constitutional text is not enough... Of course, there is also the danger of discussing the fundamental document of a state discussing how to limit the political power of the government, because the Constitution is, in fact, also sometimes comes into the position of uncritically protecting the interests of certain stakeholders and then declaring itself a public interest which is a very particular interest which is very difficult to defend as a general and there have been such attempts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the fact is that in this proposal we have a whole series of questions that have nothing to do with the accession of the European Union, but actually testifys to our willingness to accept the fact that earlier meetings of the Croatian Parliament, or people who wrote the Constitution, have simply failed to resolve or have solved them in a way that no longer corresponds to the spirit of time, does not answer the fundamental question in which country we want to live. The list of all these topics found in the draft of the right to access information, the adoption of the state budget, the provisions on the Ombudsman, the provisions on the non-depreciation of criminal offences in the conversion and privatisation, the engagement of the Croatian military in foreign missions or beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, and the question of the referendum is, in fact, nothing to do with the harmonisation of our legal order with the European order but only with the technical procedure of making a decision on the accession of the European Union. But there are provisions on the Supreme Court, the election of constitutional judges, education, etc. There were several other very valuable proposals, which unfortunately were neither included in the Government's proposal nor in the proposal of a group of MPs, nor in the Committee on the Constitution's proposal. I'm going to mention today one that seems to me for technical reasons, out of ignorance, out of awareness of the importance of it because the other I don't really want to believe is actually missed. The opportunity to return to the Constitution has been missed. It's about technical culture. Until 2000, technical culture was regulated as one of the areas within the jurisdiction of local self-government units. Suddenly since 2000, there has been no such thing in the Constitution. We'd say an effective question. However, in the 21st century, ignoring the need to position and develop a technical culture is simply irresponsible. On the other hand, there is not a single address addressed by those who care about the preservation and development of technical culture, which has not responded positively to them by the parliamentary committees, the Ministry of Science, the Professional Education Agency, other education agencies. But there's nothing in there. This Regulation shall enter into The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which defines the areas of action, i.e. the powers of local self-government units, has both culture and body culture, but there is no technical culture. I hope that's an oversight. I hope that we can still correct that, unfortunately, because of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it is impossible to react to this draft proposal by amendment, but it is possible to respond to the proposal for a conclusion, so I was free to propose a conclusion to which we will forward this proposal to the Committee on the Constitution to finalise the proposal for amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which would suggest to the Committee on the Constitution because it has the authority to return that famous coin to the technical culture in Article 134. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We will lose nothing, but we will gain credibility and we will get one situation in which we no longer need to explain how important it is for the general education of our citizens to define technical culture as an area of obligation, authority and affairs of local self-government. Today, when we talk about technical culture, we certainly don't just talk about aviation. First of all, we're thinking about IT, robotics. It is today a modern challenge of technical culture. If we are not as a legislative body chosen by the Croatian political people ready to accept a commitment to the future by defining that area in the field of education, then we are not responsible enough. I hope that for this reason we will not show our irresponsibility, but rather vice versa, so I ask you therefore to support the vote and forward it to the Committee on the Constitution, and I am sure that neither the Committee on the Constitution will object because this is not about any change that would violate the political agreement of the majority and the parliamentary minority, which would have introduced a new issue which has never been resolved before by the constitutional text or which would in some way be appropriate to some interested group that does not really impregnate all parts of the Croatian society. In that sense, I ask you once again to support the proposal for a conclusion that you will get on the benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54251	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54252	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Beus-Richembergh, I am pleased that you have encouraged and at this point have drawn attention to another important issue of technical culture that was found outside the Constitution, and has caused a particular problem, above all, in the functioning of local self-government, or technical culture on local self-government. But I have also been informed by people who are involved in sports at the same levels, as well as by the exclusion from the text with the same consequences that it has at the local level. So it's usually the county, the cities and the municipalities, and it's my appeal at this point that when it comes to making that conclusion, it's also a sport to fully address this issue of technical culture and sports that has been excluded from the text, and then it's not a small problem in the functioning of local self-government, or people dealing with these affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54253	You got it. You didn't answer, but okay. Answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54254	I cannot be considered an expert in this matter in any way, but I would like to say to my fellow Serbs that the current provision of Article 134 mentions body culture. I guess the sport in the narrow sense, so as such, he experienced his own destiny because it also exists as a commercial activity. Body culture certainly is, and in this sense all forms of sport as sports recreation and must be concern for both local and regional self-government. And I don't think anyone with a healthy head has anything to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54255	Thank you. We continue to discuss the individual and we have an important representative, Dragan Vukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since the morning, we have been discussing constitutional changes and the debates that took place in this House of Commons have been very interesting. The constitution is an act on which the state rests. I'm not an expert on constitutional law, but I will dare say a few words on this subject. The existing Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was to be amended for the purposes of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, and this could have been done very simply so that the left hand of the Croatian Parliament aware of its importance for the vote of the Constitution did not set out as it had been asked and imposed and the issue of voting in the 11th constituency. I have been listening all day to how little is known about the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina and their relationship with the Republic of Croatia. The Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina support, support and support all that is good for the Republic of Croatia. Two of the strongest parliamentary parties in the Croatian Parliament reached an agreement on the vote of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and that is good for the Republic of Croatia. This speaks of the maturity and stability of the Republic of Croatia. They are not frequent topics these two parties have met in the last 20 years and have followed a compromise. It's a good thing they found each other, even on this one. This compromise would only be a better compromise one spring in the early '90s, I think in June '91. when one of the parties signatories of this Agreement leaves the Assembly. It was 20 years or 19 years ago and if an agreement had been reached and a compromise had been made today, it would have been easier for us to discuss the amendments to this Constitution, and it would have been easier for us to consider these 20 past years. But it was the way it was and the compromise was always good. Throughout history there have been different agreements, often at the expense of the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that this agreement is not, but it will be translated into the Constitution by three representatives of the 11th Election Unit and will not be branded for each election by the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina as the sources of any evil in the Republic of Croatia. And now we're getting to the DKP. This should be embassies, i.e. consulates and voting methods. Some up to 150 thousand people are directed at the Bridge Consulate who should exercise their right to vote there. It is about as if the whole of Sibenik and Split should vote in one place and I am now asking how many people, so let it be dark and two and three and four days through a single door a wide meter and 40? It is impossible for them to pass, and this is why this proposal can be fixed, and something Mr. Bagaric said about it. It can be fixed that once an agreement has been reached that a quota of three MPs for the 11th constituency is fixed and it doesn't matter if 5,000 people or 50,000 people come out, three will be elected. So if that's the case, then let's go to those people who have the right to vote in the Constitution and give them both the way and the possibility to do it right and to do it. I therefore propose and we have written an amendment, but if, in any way, our amendment will violate the agreement and cause any negative tones in this House, then we are prepared and withdraw it, but we appeal exclusively for the technical way of voting, that there are no orders in front of the DKP, that these people achieve in one decent, dignified way their right to vote, in a way that, as many countries have resolved in the world, all those who have the right to do so have a written vote. In this way, apart from technically solving these problems in the election post itself, we will avoid the questions and criticisms of the public because people ask all sorts of questions these days, ask me, is the voice of the mother of the dead Croatian defender equally worthy of the voice of the mother of Mile Markic? We will make this right to vote, by introducing a correspondence vote, we will elect those three wise men from the east who will also help the Republic of Croatia in the future, and by then, if God is to be in the European Union, which is also the goal of the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So if we give the right vote, then you have to give the opportunity to use that right, because it's worth you having the right to something, and you can't use that right? Well, I guess we Croats know what it means to have a right, which means we don't use that right, and we've had the whole history right to the state, and we've only enjoyed it for the last 20 years. Today, polls were mentioned here, individuals were invited to a referendum to feel the pulse of the public, and here I am today conducting a very short survey, as the football world championship begins on Friday, and I asked my countrymen who will vote for this world, for whom they will cheer at this world championship. They told me about the fires, and then I said it and we didn't get laid. They say we'll train the messengers for the next championship, we'll cheer for the Fires even if we don't get a vote in the next election if there's a lot of traffic. And finally, what my colleague Bagaric invited Mr. Kajin and others as well. I call, from this place, all the MPs of this House to go among the Croats to BiH and here he said that he will bear those costs and I will part-participate and we will be glad to be your hosts in BiH, to go from Sava to Ravno to see and meet these people, to see their problems. It'll be a lot easier for us to make decisions here when it comes to these people out there. Many will find their relatives, our friends there, and we do not have the illusion that we know much about BiH because when we get there, then we will realize how little we know. And you will understand why me and Mr. Bagarić, even a few other MPs, perform as we perform and pray this House of the High to understand this amendment and to accept a way to include a letter vote because it has nothing to do with this agreement, it ennobles it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54257	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Boris Kunst, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54258	Dear counterpart Vukic, you may have noticed that today debates could be heard from individuals who deliberately deceive the public with their assumptions, structures, pranks, and they actually see nothing positive but are full of charges of negativity. Whether it is the Constitution, the judges or the vote of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia. In these structures you could even notice that they go so far as to be surprised that 13 MPs mean these 8 national minorities and these 5 representing Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia are together in a coalition with HDZ. And be careful they're troublesome, instead of asking themselves how they're not with them in the coalition, not wondering how they're with HDZ. Well, that's their problem, so logically, if we solved our problem, then those people would probably be with them, too. They know very well why they are not with them in the coalition but are with HDZ. I think it best says it about them and they don't have to ask for guilt either in the Constitution because the Constitution can't help them either, but they have to solve their own problems first, and then they can expect someone to want to co-ordinate with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54259	Replica reply, distinguished representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54260	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kunst, you have really touched this very sensitive and interesting question. It is very often known to attack HDZ because of what it has and such a broad coalition, etc. This is not just about diaspora MPs, national minority representatives, etc., we are on the EU threshold, we need to share Europe with other EU nations. And what I like as a man who comes from BiH, and what in one way often hurts me in this House, we can all from the EU, unfortunately except with the Croats from BiH. It's often heard here and it's not good tones, it's not good messages. I don't think we should be ashamed of our brothers, we have no reason. And this morning I was saying we are one people, one body and one soul. Living in two countries is a historical circumstance, but if God does, BiH will be in the EU, and then we will all be there together.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54261	Thank you. Until then, we move forward with the debate, or replica, of the distinguished representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Vukic, you spoke in your presentation of a compromise on the damage of Croats from BiH. It has indeed been achieved, it is indeed at the expense of the Croatian diaspora because it is evident that in the elections everyone will not be able to vote on the system proposed on the one hand and on the other hand there will be much greater manipulation than it has ever been. And that because people who want to vote in the elections will practically have to come a day or two before the diplomatic-consular representation, take with them chairs, a warm meal, maybe beds and wait to come to the polls because unfortunately physically assessed is maximum in optimal conditions can vote in one diplomatic-consular representation of up to 3,000 voters. But the question is actually the consequences that follow. If for several years, since not all will be able to vote and there will be once again an imbalance between the number of votes per diaspora representative and the elected representative in Croatia, in Croatia, there will be actually a new proportion to which someone will again call and say the voice in the diaspora is worth more than the vote in Croatia. And this is now being built practically through a solution like this in the Constitution. And I call you therefore, don't withdraw your amendment, insist on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54263	Thank you. Your Honor, you must have a tile, waving like you're drowning. ... Oh, yeah, it's like you're drowning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on, reply to the replica, distinguished representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Daniel, I was talking about that often during history there have been agreements that have been at the expense of the Croats of BiH and I believe this one is not. That's what I said and I quoted myself. ... It's your right, of course. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I believe it isn't, and this is what you were talking about and looking into the future. Of course, we strive to be part of the EU, the good part of the EU is already using an electronic vote today. We'll be able to use an electronic vote in 2 years, too. Therefore, this will be ridiculous for us from that perspective and the quotas and the way we vote. And that's why it's in favor of going now with a letter vote so that later we have fewer problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54265	Thank you. And the final replica of this debate, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54266	We're discussing the change of the Constitution here, not the width of the gate at the Mostar Consulate. Changing the Constitution is a very serious and responsible job. And any amendment to the amendment to the Constitution must be serious and must be submitted responsibly. On this issue, I repeat what I said to my colleague Bagaric, an agreement has been reached between your party's president and SDP President Milanovic. I don't know if this amendment of yours has been agreed with the president of your party? I don't know that. I have a right to doubt it. I have the right to conclude then that her agreement and performance in both the talks and the public was dishonest. Either you don't respect the president of your party or her arrangements. I don't know how you'll justify yourself when he calls you to account.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54267	Thank you. I think it's been said before that they're ready to withdraw. Not that way, you don't have to argue that way. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mr Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54268	Comrade Stazic, you were talking about us talking about the Constitution today, so of course we're talking about the Constitution. And you were talking about whether my president and my colleague Bagaric would call me for agreement. I am not afraid of any responsibility when it comes to repairs and repairs which are in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and of the Croatian people and of all Croatian citizens. And I said in my performance, if that amendment will do anything to cause any confusion in this assembly we're ready to withdraw it. But we call for reason, and you can laugh as much as you want. With such an approach, you will remain an opposition, and last election you lost only because you played against the diaspora, and your colleagues from the club know it well and we speak it in the cafe when we sit down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54269	Let's move on with the individual debate. It's our guest, Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54270	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, today we have been discussing almost all day the draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia but I consider it necessary to say that, before the decision to amend the fundamental provisions of the existing Constitution, it was necessary both to professionally and politically and publicly analyse the extent to which the present Constitution has proved to be good, where there were bad sides, which is all that should be left behind, and what are the very good sides that need to be firmly debated about the Constitution. The truth has been seen a lot of gaps that change in a certain way and that's good. But what's bad is that, in fact, through this way of change, the Constitution is changing some of the fundamental provisions set out in this earlier Christmas Constitution, which has been changed several times but has remained in force until today. I think it is these very provisions that are important, which affect the strategy and concept of the Constitution, that are problematic and that concern several extremely important areas. One of them is about here quite often mentioned, and that is the issue of the Croatian diaspora. Therefore, Croatian citizens who do not live in the Republic of Croatia who are one part in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the other part in Western Europe and overseas countries because they were persecuted were politically either living on extremely difficult economic occasions and then left Croatia. We have today come up with a proposal which says in Article 7 "Article 45 is amended and reads: "Croatian citizens of 18 years of age have a general equal right to vote for the Croatian Parliament, President of the Republic, European Parliament" etc. But already in the same article, this right is limited, and that is why this fundamental one rule is to a certain extent unconstitutional and it is certain that the assessments of the constitutionality of such a provision will also be required. Because one part of Croatian citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, will not be allowed to vote on the basis of a constitution like this, and it is precisely because the physical possibilities will not allow it anywhere. But if we know that, then why do we insist on such changes through the Constitution? The question is, what will happen in the future exactly when it comes to the diaspora list? It will be voted by less and fewer people, more and less people will come to diplomatic-consular representations and raise the issue of these values of votes outside Croatia compared to Croatians, which will be a requirement to further reduce the number of representatives from the diaspora. I believe that the number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament from the diaspora must be identical to those who have Croatian minorities, minorities in the Croatian Parliament in each term. The question is also the future of Croatia under such conditions as to reduce the conditions for entering into different integration processes with other countries and peoples, which I find particularly problematic. And it was this provision and article 141 that was the basis of Croatian statehood, and this reduction in the possibility that 25% of Croatian citizens in the referendum would decide on the future of the state is not acceptable. Today, we also had the opportunity to hear certain demands that the second item in the same article be removed, which is the one that hinders Croatia's entry into Balkan integration. In fact, he's nakeded an entire policy that exists here which is legitimate, but for us it's totally unacceptable. So there is one hidden desire for Croatia's entry into Balkan integration. She's here today, and she's spoken plainly. The next request will certainly be a request concrete on the removal of exactly that provision from the Croatian Constitution, through which, in the next step, and possible, if they are to make assumptions for them, entry into Balkan integration. We cannot close our eyes and, of course, there is a lack of confidence in the interests of national minorities, some national minorities in Croatia. Therefore, it is not really a problem when it comes to national minorities in the right to preserve the tradition, language and culture of members of national minorities, but rather in the desire to change the attitude of political forces in Croatia through relations in the Croatian Parliament in order to create assumptions for entering various possible Balkan integrations. It is one danger that exists in continuity, and I regret that through such constitutional changes it has accepted certain concessions that go in favor of them. That's what I was talking about. So it is probably not the intention of constitutional change itself to crawl into Balkan integration but to join the European Union, but there are forces that use this moment to make assumptions for such entry into the future. In that sense, they have also succeeded through this way in changing the Constitution. That's what I'm protesting. That is the fundamental reason why I will not support these constitutional changes. So, on the one hand, the question of the referendum and the conditions for coming up into transnational integration, where I feel it is necessary to stress that the Croatian people, Croatian citizens, will also know about matters of interest in the event of a referendum on the referendum coming out and voting as they believe it is in their interest. There is no reason not to trust the ability of Croatian citizens to assess what is good for Croatia in the future. As for the other referendums, the other referendums have defined that threshold of 10% of voters, which proved virtually impossible to achieve, and our proposal and requirement to reduce it to 5% because in such a case there is a theoretical possibility that, if the need arises, a national-level referendum in Croatia is carried out. The existing provisions, although declaratively enabling a referendum in reality, are realistically disabled. When it comes to the non-exhaustion of the crime of conversion and privatisation, I think it is primarily something that would be good, but what through this proposal is actually a marketing trick in the adoption of such constitutional changes is to create the impression that individuals who used the situation during the Homeland War will be punished and committed certain crimes in the privatisation process will benefit themselves. Legal experts warn that none of this can be done because laws that have retroactive effect cannot be passed. In conclusion, I consider this change of the Constitution conceptually and in the long term for Croatia harmful, regardless of certain good intentions, especially when it comes to three key elements: referendum, national minority rights and the right to vote on the Croatian diaspora. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54271	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54272	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that I will personally support the proposal for the establishment of the draft Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was referred to by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. One of the primary reasons why the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was certainly a comprehensive adjustment of the legal, economic and administrative system of the Republic of Croatia in the process of preparing for membership in the European Union. This is a complex process of harmonisation of legislation, implementation of reforms in the competence of state authorities and institutions, transfer of certain constitutional powers to the institutions of the European Union, direct legal effect and application of European Union law. And since these categories are regulated in addition to the law by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, preparations for accession to the European Union require constitutional and legal adaptation. In addition, this draft also intervenes in the existing constitutional provisions resulting from numerous initiatives by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, representatives of the Croatian Parliament, quality working groups, civil society associations and institutions. The amendments to the Constitution mean long-term work, great efforts in the process of agreeing and creating a draft of changes. I would therefore like to point out, in particular, that although the working group has failed to establish a joint draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that a consensus has been reached in most proposed changes such as the original bases, the Armed Forces, the European arrest warrant, the non-depreciation of the criminal acts of war profit and crime from the process of conversion and privatisation, the Croatian National Bank needs the majority to decide on the crossing or action of the Armed Forces across the borders of the Republic of Croatia, the adoption of the state budget, the State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Office and the State Attorney's Council, the decision to elect judges of the Constitutional Court of Croatia, the right to local and regional (regional) self-government and the new Chapter 7, articles relating to the European Union. I would particularly refer to some of the above-mentioned constitutional changes. I support the addition of the original basis, which includes Bosniaks, Slovenians, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Russians, Bulgarians, Poles, Roma, Romanians, Turks, Vlasi, Albanians and others among the members of the national minorities, and guarantees them equality with the citizens of Croatian nationality and the exercise of national rights. I support the adaptation of Article 9(2). The Constitution ensuring the application of a European arrest warrant, based on the recognition of decisions by the judicial authorities of one Member State under the legal system of another Member State. I support the introduction of non-depreciation for war crimes, crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation, offences committed at the time of the Homeland War and peaceful reintegration, war and immediate threat, independence and territorial integrity of the state prescribed by law or those not obsessing to international law, and it is determined that the property benefit achieved by those acts will be subtracted. The amendment of Article 45 regulates the voting rights of Croatian citizens in elections for the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia, the elections for the European Parliament, and in the decision-making process in the state referendum in accordance with the law, while for Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia, they propose to exercise their voting rights at polling stations in diplomatic and consular representations in the foreign state where they reside, and to elect 3 representatives in elections for the Croatian Parliament. I support the proposal that the referendum's decision requires most of the voters who have joined the referendum, neglecting electoral abstinence and allowing the actual will of the electoral body to be expressed. The provision on the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is complemented in order to ensure that citizens of the Member States of the European Union are equal and legal entities from those countries. It is also prescribed that the president of the Supreme Court be required to submit a report on the work of the judicial authority to the Croatian Parliament. The provision that judicial duties are personally entrusted to judges comes to full extent objective criteria for the appointment of judges in order to ensure a transparent and effective judiciary. I am pleased that some conclusions have found their place in the proposed constitutional changes. The proposal for the State Judicial Council to decide independently on the appointment, promotion, relocation, resolution and strict responsibility of the judges and presidents of the courts other than the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has deleted the provision on the duty of obtaining the opinion of the relevant parliamentary committee. The proposal to be part of the State Judicial Council and I consider two parliamentary deputies a good proposal. Namely, the practice of the work of the State Attorney's Council in which two representatives of the Croatian Parliament are sitting proved to be extremely good. Almost all decisions of that body shall be made by consensus. I support the proposal that judges and deputies of the state's attorney are appointed as permanent duty for the reason that the State School for Judicial Officials in a transparent and objective manner ensures the choice and education of judges and deputy state attorneys when they enter into office. I believe that the improvement is contained in the addition of the provisions on selecting judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia where the decision is taken 2/3 of the majority. It is also proposed to extend the Constitutional Judge's term of office as the elected judge to remove the possibility of blocking the work of judges. In that sense, and the Croatian Democratic Community club, we got the amendment that I support just before, to keep that period maximum for 6 months. In Chapter VII. Under the name of the European Union, specific membership issues on the European Union, primarily the objectives and values of European community as the basis of membership, the transfer of part of constitutional powers to the European institutions are being opened up to regulate the way the Croatian Parliament participates in the legislative process of the European Union, and to monitor the functioning of the Government in the European Union institutions. The protection of subjective rights of citizens against Croatian courts is regulated, which is a direct effect of European Union law on its fundamental characteristics. On the basis of this, I support the draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54273	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Secretary of State. At first, I would like to make it clear that I will welcome and support and vote in favour of the draft constitutional changes. The reason for saying it like this is because I'm going to back up there's a lot. However, at this moment, the two most important moments for me are the most important and I want to repeat here that in 2003, when I first entered the Croatian Parliament, signing on behalf of the SDA coalition agreement with the HDZ in the first article, we said when constitutional changes occurred, we ask that the Bosniaks and Slovenians return to the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution from which they are of unknown reasons in '97. years out. Since there were no constitutional changes in my first term, we awaited new elections, in 2007 and again in the first article we reiterated that request. I have to say here I'm happy that HDZ's partner-in-chief respected that deal. Because I represent not only Bosniaks and Slovenians, but three other ethnic minorities of Albanians, Montenegrins and Macedonians, who will enter the original bases for the first time this time. Practically as their parliamentary representative, I do what may be best for members of these minorities. If I were to add that some minority groups belonging to the Media Group are also entering the origins, then I must practically be proud to have this big moment with my return initiative of Bosniaks and Slovenians, and I hope that tomorrow we will have a chance to vote and vote these indicated changes to the draft new Croatian Constitution. Of course, this is my chance to warn you of some details. As a member of the Committee on the Constitution, I was therefore involved in this one debate that was long-term, academic and professional, and I have to notice this far away, it was far principled than I had the opportunity to listen to some parliamentary representatives today. At one point, they object to Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the diaspora, as if they are the fundamental problem of the Croatian state. When their problem is over, it's about minority advocates who do wonders support this government. So if, by any chance, a minority representative had given his voice to the other side, at the same time we would be quite, quite different. So it is one unprincipled critical consideration as if we are to blame for all the problems that appear in Croatia today. Of course, here's a chance to point out one detail, '97. the years when two minorities were expelled, so the Slovenians and Bosniaks who were in the Christmas Constitution, so they were there, and when I read the amendments that were then drawn up by the minority representatives, then roughly came out like this, some minorities were throwing out other minorities. And here we have two and today parliamentary representatives from the minority ranks who can't exactly boast that they were raising their voice at that point of the border. Some have voted that Bosniaks are being kicked out of the Croatian Constitution, some have voted, I am talking about minorities, Slovenians are being kicked out of the Croatian Constitution, and today with this initiative, I am returning all minority groups to the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution. And in this act we are solving a dubiosis that exists here in Croatia, when it comes to relations between old and new minorities. The old minorities thought they had some historical rights, when we have to wait in, at the door and when they settle down, then go ahead and solve some of their demands. And that's why it's very difficult for me to participate in the work of the Council of the International Minority, when I have the opportunity to participate in some gatherings where minority groups are, minority representatives, and when I start talking about the Bosniak problem in the Republic of Croatia, then know that it's not a very simple job. So it happened to me at a set of national minorities in Umag, when I was talking about problems, which means for members of the Bosniak people in general at the premises of the former state community, because statistics have kicked us out by other names. I'm not going to tell you what happened in '21, '31, '48, '53, '61, just a Bosniak name has been suspended. 28.9.93. In the occupied Sarajevo, I was happy that through Tigman, I came to occupied Sarajevo, or surrounded by Sarajevo, and then we brought a resolution on the return of my historic name Bosnjak. And of course, we are now talking because we have returned that name, it appears in almost all official relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia and other countries, then we are trying to perform some reminiscing of statistics in recent times. So, for example. I mentioned World War II, which said that in these places after the Jews, the greatest human losses had members of the Bosniak people 8.3% of the Bosniak people were then killed in these huge traumas of Chetniks, fascists, etc. I must say that the current president's advisor, who was present, told me so don't talk nonsense to Tankovic, so you're a genocide people, then you got a mosque in Zagreb and you know what merits you got. I was, of course, protesting myself, I tried, I asked later to get me that sound, sound log, but he disappeared, he disappeared because simply that man had so much insolence and courage to say you have no right to date such data. And that's why I'm stressing here in front of this distinguished House, it's very important to correct some historical facts, correct them. As a Bosniak and a man representing the Bosniak minority, it doesn't mean much to me that we will have the right, reportedly to have a double right to vote, when only 7% of members of the Bosniak people in Croatia are listed as voters in the list of voters by the historical name of Bosnjak. There was also a minister of the administration for a while, and we tried to sort things out, but of course Minister Mlakar thinks he can still play with my people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54275	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54276	In any case, I thank Mr. Vice President, I will vote for these changes, and I hope that you will soon be able to get two other resolutions that will have the opportunity to present themselves in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54277	Thank you. There is a further discussion of the individual, distinguished representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54278	Here I am very pleased to speak now after the distinguished representative, Mr. Šemse Tankovic, and I agree with the non-essential problem of the Croatian state at this time, in no way can I be Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, but rather the fundamental problem of Croatia, and thus Bosnia and Herzegovina are this robbery, the decline of gross social product, criminal privatisation, the decline of exports, imports, losses.../It is not understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54279	Dear Representative Cain, please stick to the subject, and the topic is constitutional change. Please stick to the subject because I'm going to be forced to sanction you, not go. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54280	Okay, I'm hanging in there. Please don't interrupt the vis-a-vis concentration. I also want to say to you, Mr. Vice President, the distinguished gentlemen of the House that Damir Cain was against the abolition of both Bosniaks and Slovenians, don't catch me for a year, '97. or '98, from the Croatian Constitution. As I also opposed the 3rd January administration. Why did we leave the Bosniaks, or Slovenians, out of the changes then? It certainly can't impute me like we can't impute racism. However, racists may have been dreaming in the division of BiH. However, now to move on what may be a fundamental, central question, why does Croatia need a new Constitution at this time? Would we now prepare ourselves as a nation for Europe, to raise some standards of human or minority rights? Or do we perhaps need these elections, not by the majority of the country's citizens, but by the country's leading parties, to de facto join the elections for the Republic of Croatia with a referendum on EU accession on the same day? I personally think that's actually the point, and that's why some people are in such a hurry right now. Clearly, there was something else I wanted to do. With this change of the referendum majority for association in some alliances, get a safe passage, but for the first time in the Constitution the provision for voting so-called. or those famous diaspora, it actually comes down to the vote of the citizens of BiH of Croatian nationality. It is clear that no one should be against the citizens born on the ground of the Republic of Croatia and live and vote abroad, but why should Croatia be decided by those who are a constituent people in our neighbouring country? Here you see, I'm against it, for example. Not only me but certainly, I am convinced, the vast majority of Croatian citizens are against it. Let's give this right at this point a referendum and let's see what the Croatian citizens think at this time. I personally think it would be democracy. I also think that the citizens of Croatia would smoothly abolish that right. Mr. Stazic calls for some recent research and mentions the number of two-thirds of Croatian citizens. Would the choice, for example, or would such a choice in the referendum question any constitutional principle? I assure you you wouldn't. Why? So you're up to '95. For example, citizens from BiH did not have the option of choosing in the Croatian elections. I also agree that Italians from Istria should not choose for the Italian Parliament either. And finally honored gentlemen, is there anyone else sitting next to Mr. Bagaric, along with Mr. Vukic, on this list of diaspora famouss who has a residence or residence on BiH soil? I personally don't think so, maybe I'm wrong. It was similar or almost identical in all the Parliament meetings of '95. in here, what they will say is that those who propose such solutions and who place these lists on those persons who do not have a residence in another country knowingly manipulate the electoral legislation. I also agree with those who have said that the diaspora vote is a matter of agreement, not of Croatian citizens if it is the true thesis of Mr. Stazic, and I feel it would be so in the referendum that two-thirds of the country's citizens would not accept such a choice at the moment. As I have no right to vote for events in Mostar, I also think that those who are from Mostar have nothing to decide on my fate, in this country to vote for my president or my own, however now, whether Croatia will join the EU, etc. BiH is a state of whatever it is, complex or such, but it is a sovereign state and we clearly need to respect and emphasize this sovereignty in all possible ways. I used to say the same thing... A complex state I said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I also said earlier that the Milanovic-Kosor or Kosor-Milanovic agreement is actually an agreement, this agreement to be chosen in embassies, i.e. in consulates I personally support more than to choose under each pear as I once said either with a plum or an apple because it is illogical that we have more election seats in BiH than in many counties in the Republic of Croatia. And this is actually just as important as mentioning this fixed quota of 3 mandates, which will eventually be set by law, and will likely be chosen by a majority of one vote more than other votes. And it will happen that the HDZ will get all three mandates more because of this vote and I fear they have no chance of having either naturalised Glavas, or Bandic or anyone else. It is right to respect gentlemen and Mr. Smerdl otherwise a member of the Committee on the Constitution who says that after a famous settlement in the diaspora vote Croatia is further than the constitutional principle of the general and equal rights of all citizens. I quote "New List", 25.05.2010. And it is my fault that there is no Mr. Seks here, and I quote him who then said at the session of that committee, Seks agreed, quote: "There are derogations from this norm when it comes to the selection of representatives of national minorities, and in the future there will be a case with the choice of representatives of the diaspora, arguing that general and equal rights cannot be a pure norm," a finished quote. Just as Mr Vukic's claim is also true when he said the opposition probably lost the elections in 2007 because of the pledge not to vote in the Croatian diaspora. It's clearly not fair, but it's just like that. Also, the Seks-Pupovac agreement guarantees the citizens of the Serbian nationality of 3 votes, it is not controversial, but it is disputed if the one who gets the vote carries all the votes more and it would clearly not be one fair solution, but it is likely to be so. I said I have nothing against the citizens of Croatia's nationality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I am also willing to argue that the greatest damage to our people in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been created by those who have been thinking about the division of the country, about Banska Croatia, etc. Those who are drilling into their large Croatian breasts, which have received the most from this country, the paradigms that some generals are now mentioned that they privatised the hydroelectric power plant if I am not mistaken, and the Croatian state is raising money for their trials abroad. What can't be arranged is a matter of local self-government. The government decides that all the burden from the state is being transferred to local self-government. It's enough to mention income tax, then the monumental rent that was stupid, and like that, communal fees are shrinking. I agree that these parafiscal burdens should be changed, but that local self-government should be strengthened, as would most honestly at the moment if parliamentary deputies were directly elected by both the President of the State and the Mayor of Zagreb and 20 mayors and 127 other mayors and 429 mayors. All in this country can be chosen by the people, only the people's representatives cannot be chosen by the people. And why is that? Because those who propose these laws are who. Damir Cain came directly elected, Mr Hebrang and Damir Cain would surely have been elected again. But the vast majority of you in this House wouldn't be in this assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54281	Thank you, Mr. Cain. Your time is up. We have two reported replicas. It's next, dear colleague Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54282	Thank you very much. So, dear colleague Caine, I will look back on what I agree with you, even though we disagree on a lot of things, especially in this matter. And this is the fact that such a proposal of the Constitution, just as Mr. Smerdel said, is actually deviating from the fundamental democratic right to an equal vote for all Croatian citizens. And after this, we step aside from that no Croatian citizen can have any greater or smaller rights based on ethnicity, or any other difference between citizens, and that happens. Because we introduce three categories of Croatian citizens. The first, which is obviously the most valuable one that will have the right to two votes, including the diaspora vote, two voting rights but in Belgrade. Another category of citizens will be those who have one vote and live in the Republic of Croatia. And third, those who will be entitled to one 60 votes, 120 of them will be worth voting in Belgrade and who will stand in ranks so that they can vote in diplomatic and consular representations. But when it comes to this particular group that will vote in Belgrade, do you know how many of them are registered at the same time in the Republic of Croatia, they receive unemployment benefits, while working in Novi Sad at the same time in a working relationship. And the Croatian fee for the unemployed who pay Istra taxpayers is higher than the salaries in the Republic of Serbia. And even after that, the number of Croatian citizens who apply to Croatia is expanded. And they get those rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54283	Thank you. And he answered the line. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54284	If someone Mr. Serb has the general and equal right to vote and if someone should have it, then that would mean that the one in the diaspora can't have two votes, and you or I can't. It means that he votes first for the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then votes for the Croatian elections, so if he wants to come from Ljubusko to Metkovic and a third time votes higher and higher because of the arrangements of our voter lists. I know you do. As I also agree that minorities have a double right to vote, which is above that of general and equal voting rights, but what is worst is that those parties most loyally representing them cannot count on their vote at this time. For what? Because the ruling majority is aware that minority MPs are always easily agreed below, and that this would go far harder with the parties. But then what does it come to? It comes to punishment I repeat those who most crediblely represent this particular population, who represented them and then when they were shot under the windows and when they were displaced and when they were threatened in a whole series of other ways. It is clear and I will say it, I will personally support this draft, but in any way in the Constitution or constitutional law or otherwise it will not be clearly unequivocally decided that minorities will have a double right to vote, for such a constitution discriminating the Constitution to those who represent them I will never give my vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54285	Thank you. And dear colleague Shemso Tankovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There are more things I'd like to answer to the esteemed representative, Damier Caine. First of all, it is this last note by Cain that minority representatives are somehow destined to turn to HDZ. At least when it comes to me, it's not true. I signed an agreement with the SDP for these last elections. The SDP had its own interest, because 45,000 Bosniaks are being led on the list of voters as Muslims. And they couldn't vote for me as a minority representative, only for the majority civil lists. And there was a clear connection between SDA and SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54287	Thank you. Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54288	I didn't say to your esteemed representative that your "natural choice" was HDZ, IDS or SDP, but I said I'll repeat, I'm thinking that minority representatives must have so-called. a double right to vote. It's a kind of deviation from general and equal voting rights. Why? Because if that's not the case, then it's sentencing knowingly and it's the electoral engineering of those political groups that most sincerely represent minority representatives. Because if that citizen does not matter which regions or counties in the Republic of Croatia vote for a minority representative then he cannot also vote for the political group list, and this clearly corresponds to this current political nomenclature that has thus consciously taken tens of thousands of votes to the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54289	A colleague, Ivica Pancic, applied for the debate next. Here you go, pal Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. As far as I understand these constitutional changes, we are bringing about the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. However, all of these discussions, which have dominated the public and today here in the Croatian Parliament, discussed almost everything and at least the European Union itself, which is the key to its accession. So today we have absorbed the choice of constitutional judges, whether 2/3 to the majority or to the common majority, whether or not to elect citizens of the Republic of Croatia living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. The public was dominated by the question whether these constitutional changes meant that some mayors should be replaced and so on, and I say, and only what we have joined this amendment of the Constitution, the European Union was almost uninteresting. That could mean at least two things. One thing is that we have achieved almost complete consensus, not only within the political elite but also between those who govern this country and the highest public or others, that we live in parallel worlds. On the one hand, the managing elite, on the other hand, the public. I don't know if we live in parallel worlds, but the fact is that the proportion of the mood of the elite and the public is quite pronounced. This is the best testimony, whether it was 40, 45 or 50, or as much as a percentage of those who express a certain skepticism toward this process. However, today here in the Parliament is also blasphemous to mention it seems that we all have, that there are two legal and legitimate options, one that will be for each other who will be against or refrained or how they will vote. And instead of the Government, primarily the Government, but not amnesty and parliamentary representatives, trying to remove that disproportion, trying to explain to the public what it means to enter or not enter with all positive or negative sides, we here are hitting 3.5 billion that Croatia will get to join the European Union or the flossulas that we will be better or not already know how. However, citizens reason completely differently, and instead of accepting such a way of thinking, we are going in a line of less resistance. And I again underline that line of little resistance because only a few MPs have talked about it because it seems that it is no longer an issue, and that is the question of how we will approach that European Union. I'm not one of those who accepts a broader framework and interest, which can be justified today, and the next day something else, so we represented ZERP one day, and the next day we gave up ZERP. One day we were against resolving the disputed border in this way with a referendum with Slovenia, and then after a night of sleep, we changed our minds, and all in the name of interest, of state interest. Now, for this reason, we are also approaching the key change in the existing Constitution, and at least for me and a few key changes are the issue of the state referendum. But if this article 141 is too demanding where it requires a positive statement by most of the total number of voters, was the solution to equate it with all other referendums to be called in Croatia for some other topics. Is the issue of Croatian statehood as important as the question of a referendum on the establishment of a place for the disposal of municipal waste, for example? I don't think so. As there is a degree in the importance of different laws here in the Assembly, we have doubted whether the judges of the Constitutional Court should be elected by a 2/3 majority or by a simple majority, or whether the Constitution is adopted by a 2/3 majority. Certain laws are passed by a supremacy majority, so we have put them in these amendments to the Constitution and in this way the adoption of the budget. So isn't it logical, then, that there are different kinds of referendums, one more demanding about more important issues and another less demanding where a simple majority is possible? We now explain it to the possibilities of different abuses. Abuses are always possible and a referendum with an ordinary majority can be produced and gone in an unwanted direction. Why, because political parties believe that the matter is finished that it will be dealt with positively, and then that the referendum becomes dominant in some other issues, rather than the key, as it was now in the case of Slovenia. The same can happen in Croatia. And not to stress the particular question of the legitimacy of a decision made with 10% vote of voter release, 15% or the one that was made with 5, 60 or 70%. And that is the question of legitimacy in making key political decisions, and I believe that joining a wider alliance is a key political issue that will determine not only the lives of this generation but also the next generation is the very width that this decision will have, that is, the breadth of legitimacy. And that's why it would be interesting to see how things have happened in these places in the past, even though history never repeats itself or should expect to repeat itself in the same way over and over again, but in history, we have to try and learn something. So allow me a short quote from Miroslav Krleža 926 when he tried to explain the politics of the Croatian parties to the Belgrade regime, and he said that Croatia was looking for someone to submit to him, sign a political contract with him and then rebel against that political contract for 400 years. You can find in the Banca National Question 219 pages or in the Blood Ages of Miroslav Krleža. And this very accession to the European Union is one key political agreement and it does not matter how it happens. What's fascinating is that silence that exists here about changing that famous key seems to me Article 141. The Constitution. Between the early works of Vladimir Seksa and Mate Arlovic, it seems to me that they are written here and I am a supporter, and I think that these early works are far more quality than this new war, which may be part of some broader compromises, some broader frameworks, some new knowledge that a common Croatian citizen does not know, but I think should have stayed on this trail because we do not enter new alliances every year and it is crucial that the broadest possible consensus of not political elites be reached, but ordinary Croatian citizens. And that's why, instead of the fact that Mrs. Prime Minister has come to terms with a relaxing approach, I'm a serious approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54291	Thank you very much. And the final application for the debate, the distinguished colleague of Parliament Vice-President Neven Mimic. Here's my colleague Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54292	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are entering one of the final stages of change, the change of the Croatian Constitution, which is a big and important job especially when we have in mind that such changes, such changes of the Croatian Constitution, also mark changes in the international and international legal position of Croatia, but also change in the democratic progress of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, respecting this progress in the international and internal agenda of this amendment, the Constitution should indeed be the result of the greater consensus and the result of the greater and stronger agreement of all those behind these changes. We have been under pressure for almost half a year or more now, for several months because of the obligation to conclude negotiations, to close individual chapters with the European Union, to allow Croatia to function in the membership of the European Union, to bring the amendments to the Constitution as soon as possible and as soon as possible to do this important job. But for me, that's not enough reason to change this constitution. The real reason really should be that these changes reflect to the best constitutional and legal extent a new constitutional norm of Croatia's new reality. Moreover, it is forcing the European dimension or European needs to change the Constitution that I do not think they are in the best, best way marked and that they are not in the best way entered into all of our discussions. It will turn out in the end that Croatia is the only country that has changed its Constitution because it is required from the European Union before it has entered into the European Union, but before it has completed the negotiations and signed the accession treaty. We've been quite hasty about it. I am afraid that the Croatian Government has easily and quickly accepted such requests from the European side and I am not saying this because I think the content that is required of Europe and which we should and which we are now entering into our Constitution is problematic. I think he's good, that he maintains our inner needs. However, I fear that such an approach speaks much more about how much the European Union or members of the European Union hold to the highest state-of-the-art act such as the Constitution, and how much the Government itself has been prepared to defend this dignity and sovereignty of the Croatian Constitution. Therefore, I think that if we could also discuss and bring about changes to the Constitution, but in the time that we ourselves determine that it is necessary, not in the time set as some kind of milestone for the conclusion of negotiations with the European Union. Either way, we now have one text of the draft constitutional changes which can and hopefully wants to get consent, that necessary agreement now at this stage majority consent, and then in the final phase and two-thirds consent of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I would only say now a few things that I would like to see further debates in the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure take into account. I would quickly go through four things that are written in the draft of the amendments to the Constitution that I hold in mind that it would be better not to write like that or to write different things and I would say something about four things that are not written at all in the draft, and I think it would be good if something about it were written in the Draft of the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I hope that, despite the fact that these remarks or my opinions will not be formulated in the form of amendments, that this will nevertheless be the basis for a discussion on the Committee on the Constitution, as in this proposal for a decision on the establishment of a draft amendment to the Constitution, it is said that the Committee on the Constitution will also take account of the observations and proposals made in the debate, meaning not only the amendment. I don't even know why the amendments in the first reading are submitted. But let us also say that what will be presented in the debate will certainly be taken seriously in determining the proposal for a change to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Here's a quick one. Article 6 shall refer to the right to access information. This came from a public debate, from proposals that came from NGOs. But I'm afraid here in action was just a twist, a twist of the basic intensity of a provision that was a provision that would guarantee the right to access information. I'm afraid in this definition, it's been turned into a largely converted into thinking about how to limit the rights to access information. Therefore, I think that it should be a little easier or relaxed, as has already been said here, but on some other topics, to relax the provisions on restricting the right to access information. The vote of Croatian citizens residing outside the Republic of Croatia on this is much said today. I think we should make an effort to make that agreement, that compromise that has been reached to end definitely and enter into the very text of the Constitution, thus voting in the headquarters of diplomatic consular offices, rather than diplomatic consular offices. Then I think that we need to clarify, if not in the text of the Constitution, but in the political agreement that we need to clarify the issue of any change in the electoral system because such an amendment would also require a different regulation at least by the number of these agreed fixed quotas. Moreover, here today, during the debate, even on the benches, an amendment has appeared that deviates from the level of what is agreed between the president and the president of the strongest parties in Croatia, a fixed quota of 3 MPs has been agreed, but nothing has been agreed, or even a clear and refuted letter vote, thus bringing amendments to the challenge and infidelity then and in the very sincerity of such an agreement, so I hold that retaining the amendment, and in particular the possible vote of the majority amendment by the ruling coalition to question and the agreement itself and the final outcome of the vote on this constitutional proposal. The extension of the terms of the Constitutional Court judges in the event of a two-thirds majority failure and quite speaking of it, I think we have now come at least looking at the amendments that are on the benches, that we have reached a possible solution, a possible good solution to limit that extension to six months. Article 141.b I believe that the control of the Council over the work of the Government in the institutions of the European Union and the law which is intended to be adopted on this and that it deserves a two-thirds majority, because this is a major issue which is to a certain extent disrupting the relations of the legislative, executive, and then the supervision of the legislative authority in the new European conditions of the work of the executive authority in the institutions of the European Union requires one big general agreement. And now there's just one thing about what doesn't say, and I think it would be good to write. In Article 45, the following I think the Constitution should also say something about the active and passive voting rights of citizens of the European Union who are participating in the European Parliament elections in Croatia, so they have a place in the Republic of Croatia, I think it is a constitutional problem which could then enable the relevant Law on Elections for the European Parliament. I think it would be good in the next Constitution to say something about determining the obligation of one and only residence to then create a constitutional basis for later all those problems that exist in the dual residence. I think that further in Article 14 of the prohibition, which refers to non-discrimination, i.e. the grounds under which it should not be or should not be discriminated against, that that prohibition of discrimination should also cover the prohibition of discrimination by age, means that it does not occur that someone is too young or too old is being discriminated against on any basis. And finally, in Article 86, that referendum that I can now ask for 10% of voters, if it were to sign their demands, it would be good to consider how to reduce that threshold to 5% of voters, so that there would be no prohibition clause, but... realistically possible, and it would be good to think about issues that could not even be introduced into a referendum such as human rights, fundamental freedoms, the tax system, the budget, perhaps international agreements, means something that would in itself not fall under a referendum decision. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54293	Thank you very much, colleague Mimica. This is what we've exhausted all the applications for the hearing. In conclusion, as a representative of the proposer, the chairman of the committee and Vice-President of the Parliament of fellow Members Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54294	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. We are finally in the finale of the fourth intervention in the Croatian Constitution. Why the finish, why the finale? Because we are likely to vote tomorrow for a draft amendment to the Constitution, and next week, the Constitution Committee will establish a proposal for constitutional changes, so the final proposal for constitutional changes, and we believe that next week we will have a new, new constitutional change of the Republic of Croatia. All, in all but a few small details, all obstacles were removed from Croatia next week to essentially be changed to the Constitution, and this is the result of one responsible, hard political work and the actions of special representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and of the Croatian Parliament as a whole, but also of all other actors who participated in these constitutional changes. These constitutional changes began almost two years ago, and there was a major co-generational debate, numerous social institutions, foundations, round tables, scientific foundations, law schools, other colleges, civil society associations, organised a large number of public debates over the amendments of the Constitution. We are now also on the verge of heavy but responsible trade, but reasonable compromises, reasonable and responsible compromises are on the threshold of the fourth intervention in the Croatian Constitution. The Christmas Constitution of December 22, 1990, had two simple goals. One goal was to create a constitutional framework for Croatia's independence and sovereignty, either at the time as a transitional phase of the alliance, the confederal alliance, or as a necessary constitutional step towards the transition to the achievement and seriousness of Croatia's sovereignty and independence, but at the same time it was also a projection of democratic pluralist society and order. The original basis of the Croatian Constitution in 1990 states that the Constitution, to bring the Constitution to a crossroads, is at the crossroads of rejecting the communist order of things, is a communist heritage. This is the transition, the rejection of one order and order of matters of political, economic and any other system and the transition to a democratic system of pluralist democracy of the market economy, the rule of law, the social state and social justice which the objectives, these others will still need to be met and achieved. Second constitutional intervention in '97. The year meant the need for the end of the already highly expressed appetites of some circles, powerful circles of the International Community, to challenge the bloody acquired independence and freedom and statehood and to re-associate Croatia with other republics into some Balkan, Yugoslav association. The hard and difficult experience of the Croatian people and Croatian states in both Yugoslav states and both the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the communist, socialist Yugoslavia was the reason for the introduction of the '97 provision into the Constitution. the year – it is prohibited to initiate a procedure that could lead to or could lead to some new Yugoslav state-owned or Balkan association. And it will remain in this Constitution, it will not change because of these difficult experiences and unpleasant experiences that the Croatian people had in both Yugoslavia. Croatia, like other former Yugoslavia countries, has decided on its own path. She decided that with all the other republics, the former republic of the former Yugoslavia. Thus, those tailors of the international order who wanted to put all the former republics back into the mold and create again some Balkan Yugoslav association were those who worked and acted without the will and consent of all the peoples. Because no one in Yugoslavia wanted the former back in the old order, the old regime and the renewal of the new Yugoslavia, the second, the third Yugoslavia. Therefore, even today when voices were heard here, the tones that pleaded to abolish that provision of Constitution 141, paragraph 2. The constitution, they have no foothold in the Croatian Parliament, have no foothold, they are just lonely voices that could be misunderstood and understood how Serbian counterparts understood them and experienced them as some regret for creating a single shackle that could lead back to the Yugoslav community. We're not gonna take that shackle off, it's gonna stay permanent just because of all the negative experiences because it's both left and right. It is not a party question, it is also a question of this Croatian Assembly and this convocation and the previous meetings of the Croatian Parliament. It is, there is a kind of plebiscite that is not touched in that constitutional provision and will not be touched. The second and third interventions in the Croatian Christmas Constitution in 2000 and 2001 were brought for the reason that a firm semi-presidential system that was appropriate at the time of the war, at the time of the state's creation, at the time of the defence, was replaced by a system of parliamentary democracy. It was a necessity, it was, and yet, all the political forces accepted it. That intervention, that changed constitution. The truth God was there and there were such unfortunate and clumsy interventions in this Constitution which, when one move of feathers abolished the County House, one House of Parliament, when the State Judiciary Council was abolished, when the name and last name of the Supreme Court president remained, would remain one of the curiosities in constitutional and legal practice in the world, but the main direction for Croatia to be designed as a country of parliamentary democracy, the parliamentary government was welcomed by all political actors. There have also been some errors in the project, in implementation. So some constitutional and legal situations were created that generated and became a possible generator of certain tensions and conflicts between the executive, central authorities and the government and the president of the Republic. That is, those are those provisions that were related to co-creation of foreign policy, for the double key in the appointment of diplomats and intelligence services of all kinds which are one political experiment that has been shown to lead to and generate certain tensions in some stages. But the main idea was that Croatia was increasingly empowering itself in the country of parliamentary democracy and the parliamentary government in which the government would answer exclusively to the Croatian Parliament, and that these changes of the Constitution no longer corresponded to the President of the Republic and the Parliament after a double colossum of responsibility but only to the Croatian Parliament. And these constitutional changes should have argued that the Croatian Parliament is indeed the decisive place where decisions will be truly and truly created and made, but this is still the ideal of many parliamentary democracies, for which there will be many more tidal waves of Danube and Drava and Sava, until we get close to somewhere to this ideal that the government really corresponds to Parliament, not that Parliament has more political influence and weight than it has a legislative body. And now finally these four changes to the Constitution. We started it somewhere in early 2008, then it was only focused on that political situation when it was very likely at that time that there would be a rapid opening of negotiations with the EU and that we would prepare to make those constitutional changes that should be the basis for a particular legislation, for certain laws necessary, important, useful or necessary for joining the Euro-Atlantic integrations of the EU in question. And that is why the government's working group also made a proposal for a draft constitutional changes that concerned exclusively the accession of the European Union and the fulfilment of certain coalition requirements such as the introduction of national minorities into the original basis of the Croatian Constitution, gradually as the debates started to come up with different ideas of proposals, the initiative to install, in addition to what the European package was incorporated into the amendments and additions of the Croatian Constitution. A group of SDP representatives, HNS, IDS also proposed their constitutional changes package parallel to the one given by the government. Otherwise, as you know in the debates in both the Croatian Parliament and the Committee on the Constitution, we agreed and approached both of these groups of constitutional changes, and finally we came to the conclusion that 95% was in agreement, that they had found common interests. Several other groups were among the most difficult to overcome were those related to the vote of Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia. A reasonable, state-owned and responsible compromise is finding this solution that has been found in the interests of both the Croatian people and Croatia, as well as the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will also be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia in its Euro-Atlantic path, because Croatia had to make certain laws, certain decisions with great, difficult assessments and judgments of its inner being on the outcome of those decisions, such as the Law on Cooperation with The Hague Court. It wasn't easy in this assembly in '96. the year to pass the Co-operation Act with the Hague Court when many in the assembly and outside of it have convinced, so you set a trap for the Croatian state, political, military leadership. You'll be the same at gunpoint, you'll be hit, don't be naive, it's not just about the war crimes of the aggressors, it's about all of you, it's about equating the guilt of everyone in Yugoslavia, all of the wars. We need to find the leaders responsible for the war, punish them, prosecute them, and that will be the real role of The Hague court. Many of these black hunches have come true. But this constitutional law was to be passed at that time, and again the main thing in the Croatian Parliament and the left and right has brought it in, because it was also on track at the level of state historical responsibility. These now constitutional changes in this part that were difficult but will ultimately be positive, not only will it contribute to Croatia's speedy move towards ending these negotiations with the European Union, and will conclude the accession treaty for Croatia's entry into the European Union, but I am deeply convinced that those fears and fears and fears that exist in part of the Croatian people, especially in the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina, will be avoided and that these fears will prove to be not justified and that the vital interests of both the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia will be caused by either of these and that they will be best protected and that they will resolve a traumatic place which in this recent Croatian history this system and the way of voting in a good part of the Croatian Corps will be caused by either with this sign. These constitutional changes have shown that, as a responsible political body, the Croatian Parliament has also found both the political wisdom and the maturity to resolve all the burning issues related to the accession of the European Union, the truth about the legal basis of what has been said in this assembly all these months and years, that these key issues are important, even the most difficult issues remain little in the shadow, which is that by entering Croatia into the European Union, Croatia is entrusting part of its powers to the institutions of the European Union, to the European Parliament, to the European Commission, so what is in the exercise of sovereignty, it is to establish voluntary transfer of constitutional powers to the institutions of the European Union. European law becomes part of Croatian law or the Croatian part becomes a European, legal and European Union decision-making system at the same time becomes legal regulations and are directly applicable. In the case of polycysion, what is the law of the European Union shall apply. We have succeeded in this constitutional change in addition to what is important and important for the European Union and have caught another part that will mean further democratisation, further step forward, strengthening independence and independence of the judiciary, the judicial apparatus, the state's attorney's office, but the judiciary as a whole. We are solving other than that of the European arrest warrant and international contracts related to the European arrest warrant. We have solved those other issues and the same painful question that we have created a constitutional framework that will allow the legislator to also ask some other questions concerning criminal persecution, a converted privatisation or profit-making channel from which no one is normal to start from leaving those who have robbed and enriched everyone with robbery, bloody to enjoy the fruits of their crimes. This civilization achievement we have also installed it in the Croatian Constitution and will probably give its results, at least it will not sleep peacefully at the end of the night. All other things have been significantly resolved. We also resolved this issue regarding schooling, free schooling in accordance with the law and about these elections of judges of the Constitutional Courts. We will accept the amendment that the Constitutional Court judges may still, for which the term of office has expired, continue to act as judges of the Constitutional Court for another 6 months, but we will also pass a constitutional law on the Constitutional Court, where constitutional judges will leave for a year before the procedure and will call for, for example, a competition for the election of judges, determine which candidates they are, and then begin a procedure to see which of these candidates can get a 2/3 majority so that within a year, there is enough time for all the necessary consultations and discussions to take place in that time to really come up with the most qualitative solutions for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court. Tomorrow we'll be on the Committee on the Constitution in half 10 of these amendments and we'll accept. On the Committee on the Constitution we will accept them, but clearly the Parliament will make a final decision on this. The same applies to the part relating to a referendum where it is now foreseen that 1/10 voters are needed to get 450 thousand to call a referendum. We'll accept the amendment that it's 5% enough, not 10%, so it'll be reduced to 220 grand. Therefore, more or less this is all resolved and we could finely tomorrow at 10 o'clock very quickly and conclude the vote, establish a draft amendment to the Constitution, set out on Tuesday at the session of the Constitutional Committee a proposal to amend the Constitution, discuss it immediately after the debate and vote immediately on the amendment of the Constitution. And finally, I believe that tomorrow, the government will also have an urgent procedure, and a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities, because it also reached a more or less consensus on a few points that would go forward with the constitutional law so that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities could be passed on Wednesday or Thursday, and thus the constitutional amendment of Croatia would be concluded at this time until the entry into the European Union. Many European countries, Mimica, know that many European countries are just before the accession of the European Union, and also in the accession process, and even after accession that have gone into the amendments to the Constitution, I do not know how many Germany or France are which are a large number of amendments to the Constitution. So at the end of June and in July we enter the new Constitution, we enter with a full, good wind in our backs because this change of constitution will mean especially for this chapter 23. Justice and human rights will mean wind in our backs, and for this chapter 31, I believe Chapter 8, so that the Croatian Parliament will be at the level of that task that the alliance for Europe and demonstrates both in this place and in this way and in terms of constitutional changes necessary for Euro-Atlantic integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54295	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. As has already been repeated several times, the draft amendment proposal for the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia envisions tomorrow at 10 pm, and we continue work tomorrow at 9.30 pm as usual on the second item of the agenda Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2009. I'm closing today's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54296	I ask all MPs and MPs to take their seats. Do we all have the keys? We do. Therefore, today we will vote on a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Proposer: Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by Dragutin Lesar, HDZ Representatives' Club, Joint Representatives Ivan Bagarić and Dragan Vukic, who withdrew, SDP Representatives' Club, Goran Beus Richembergh and HNS Representatives' Club. I ask the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to be made known about the amendments submitted. The Honorable President of the Committee and Vice President of the Parliament, Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54297	I'd like you to take a 10-minute break for the SDP club since after that session of the Constitutional Committee we weren't able to get the information that was agreed on, so I'd ask you that because of our voting consultations to give us a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54298	I approve of the break. At 10.15 we continue, 11 hours and 15 minutes continue with the session. Please don't leave the rest of you out of the assembly. Thank you very much. ... For a little more patience, the SDP club says they're here in a few minutes. [[Specially enabled.]] We're continuing the session. I'd like a representative of the SDP club to take your word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54300	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have had a high-quality and fruitful debate on these amendments that are still ahead of us, in the hope that we will make the best solution for Croatia that will last for some time, we have agreed on most things, some of us are not, but I am holding this above all by a temporary misunderstanding that stems from a common desire to find the best possible solution. It is about our amendment to the criteria for calling a referendum at national level. As you know, we have suggested that this threshold from 10% of all voters be reduced to 5%. There's been a proposal here and it's coming down to 2%. Our proposal is to make it 5%. So at this point, some 225 thousand signatures. I would like to stress that this debate has no impact on the current political problem, because the current current current referendum, which we support as a party, is based on existing rules. So what we're agreeing today, we're negotiating pro futuro, so that citizens don't have a message like today's referendum in the Constitution, but don't get carried out in the future that you'll ever exercise that right as a civil initiative. That 10% is virtually invaluable. 450 thousand signatures too, 225 possible, high enough threshold for charlatans and manipulators who would be willing to abuse that institution, this institute of direct democracy, and sufficiently low and reasonably set for all well-intentioned civil initiatives that today and tomorrow may be. And at that point, we stopped the debate and our understanding, given that our amendment was formally rejected on the board, it was said that it was only procedurally possible, our understanding is that precisely in order to prevent manipulations and abuses of the referendum institutes, we will talk about reducing this threshold from 10% to 5%, while creating certain fuses in the Constitution that would provide certain sensitive topics that are affecting fundamental human rights, fundamental values, in some of the postulates of society in which we live are exempt from the referendum and could not be subject to the referendum. Some fundamental human rights, some fundamental minority rights. Tomorrow someone can have a malicious referendum initiative, to throw out certain minorities from the Preamble of the Constitution. It is against the mood of a large, large number of Croatian citizens, against the policies of the country's leading parties and organisations, but with a lower threshold it would technically be possible. This is what our understanding needs to be limited, and such solutions exist in the world. In the hope that we understand ourselves, and we understand well that the HDZ prevails in the mood and the realization that the existing 10% referendum provision is one fiction, so one message to the citizens is not for you, and when it needs to be reduced to 5%, but at the same time applying certain civilization fuses, we continue to discuss this issue. We mainly agreed on other issues, as well as on the election and duration of the constitutional judges' mandate. We have reached a compromise that I believe should not have come to it at all, because we have actually said, you will see in the proposal, that the mandate can be extended to a maximum of half a year after 8 years. This in reality means that we have set the mandate of constitutional judges, instead of eight and a half years. Why? And the previous proposal was to last indefinitely. It is now 8 and a half years' term of office, and there is already an obligation to send a notice to the Parliament about this six months before the constitutional judges' term of office in the Constitutional Court. So we actually extended the mandate of constitutional judges from 8 to 8 and a half years. If this solution is useful for Croatia, fine. I find that unnecessary. But good. It's a compromise. Thank you for your time and patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54301	Thank you. We're going to discuss the amendments. I'd like the chairman of the board, and Vice President of the House, the esteemed Vladimir Shakespeare, to come to the pay phone and take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54302	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. As you have stated, there have been nine amendments, one has been withdrawn. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system held a session this morning and gave its statement by voting on each of these 8 amendments. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution, and the draft amendment of the Constitution, is between the motions of constitutional amendments and the Government, and a group of MPs, adopted one formulation which is today and again confirmed on the Committee on the Constitution, so that this amendment by the HDZ Club of Representatives is accepted on the Committee on the Constitution, unanimously, and it reads: compulsory education is free of charge under the law. This is therefore a fully-compliant proposal to amend the Constitution as regards Article 65.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54303	Thank you. This amendment becomes an integral part of the draft constitution that we will vote on today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54304	The 2nd amendment was the amendment of Mr Goran Beus Richembergh, with a proposal to include in Article 134(1) that the units of local, regional self-government are surrounded by all activities and activities including technical culture. And that was unanimously accepted by the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54305	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54306	Then we had two amendments regarding the same matter. The Club of Representatives of the HDZ and the Club of Representatives of the HNS and HSU who referred to the fact that the Judge to whom the term of office has expired may still be held by the Judge of the Constitutional Court no later than 6 months before the election of the new judge. We have accepted this amendment by the HDZ Representatives' Club in a modified form on the committee unanimously to say that this mandate can behave exceptionally and for a maximum period of up to 6 months. Extraordinary, up to six months longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54307	I'd like to ask the representative of the HDZ Club if he accepts an amendment like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54308	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54309	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54310	Ask the HNS and HSU club as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54311	The HNS club, I apologize, does it accept? Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54312	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. As agreed on the committee, this amendment, which fully covers our intensities as proposing this amendment, has been agreed, and I am withdrawing the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54313	Thank you. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54314	The next was the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club in the draft amendment to the Constitution's constitution that the President of the Supreme Court submitted a report on the work of the judicial authority. The HDZ Club's amendment said that the president of Croatia's Supreme Court reported once a year by the Croatian Parliament on a general issue from his jurisdiction, and the report is not voted. On the Committee on the Constitution, we unanimously agreed, unanimously adopted, on the reshaping of this amendment, so that it reads: "The President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia reports once a year to the Croatian Parliament, and instead of saying about the general issue of its competence, it is therefore to report once a year to the Croatian Parliament on the work of the judicial authority." And the second sentence, "The report is not voted."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54315	Does the club accept these changes?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54316	The HDZ Club accepts these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54317	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54318	The SDP representative club proposed an amendment to Article 7 aimed at replacing in diplomatic and consular representations the words in the headquarters of diplomatic and consular representations the vote of Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the SDP Representatives' Club proposal would take place in the headquarters of diplomatic and consular representations. The Constitutional Committee unanimously adopted this position.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54319	Therefore, this amendment becomes an integral part of the draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54320	There were still 2 amendments left, Mr Dragutin Lesar and SDP Representatives' Club. The SDP representative club suggested that the required quota for the 10% referendum be reduced to 5%. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar at 2%. By majority of votes, 7 to 3, the Committee proposed to the Croatian Parliament the conclusion that these 2 amendments would not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54321	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54322	Thank you very much. I also expected the committee's argument of not accepting this amendment, and unlike some, I believe that the current action of collecting 450 thousand signatures will succeed. In the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic does not have the authority to call a referendum without the consent of the Prime Minister, as the President of the Republic had in Iceland and saved his country from debt slavery. If we are afraid of citizens and 2% of citizens, we call possible provocators, and therefore the amendment is not accepted to be 2% of signatures when citizens want a referendum to seek additional fuses in this additional fear of citizens, then it would be good to enter into some electoral regulations more fuses in order to get a higher explanation and answers to such proposals next time. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54323	Thank you. ... There is no correction to the incorrect vote. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, let's get involved. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's check the quorum first. Please turn yourself in. Thank you. I find that 117 MPs are present. We have a quorum and we can vote. We are voting on the amendment of MP Lesar to be replaced in Article 86, point 3 of the word 10 is replaced by the words 2. Who is in favour of this amendment and, or choose to vote on the amendment. Turn yourself in and vote. I'm asking for a result. 116 versus, 1 abstention and 2 for. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. We have an SDP amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54324	Thank you, Vice President. As I was just saying earlier this amendment was rejected by most votes on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, three votes were for, these were SDP votes. We, along with this amendment, are therefore asking to vote on it, but we must stress that we need more discussion on this issue, because I recognise the will and mood in the ranks above all HDZ to discuss it. So, we're going to ask for a vote on this amendment, we're going to be for it, and we're going to call for an additional discussion and a debate on this issue in the way we suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-09-0.u54325	Thank you. It is therefore an amendment of the SDP Club to replace the word 5 in Article 86(3) of the word 10. Who is in favour of that amendment, please vote in favour of that amendment. Turn yourself in and vote. The result? 78 MPs and MPs against, 1 abstention and 48 for, therefore the amendment has not passed. Please, in accordance with Article 143. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia lays down a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with the majority of the votes of all MPs to make the decision, 77 votes are required. I am voting in favour of the Decision establishing a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: "The draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the text is laid down that, in accordance with the decision on accession, the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been made by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament with the amendments adopted. 2. In accordance with the provisions of Article 57(1), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system will submit a proposal to the Croatian Parliament for an amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. 3. This decision and the draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia will be published in the "National Journals". Please engage and vote. What's the score? I find that with 123 votes for, 2 abstentions and 3 against the adoption of a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
