ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59761	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The World Trade Organisation's main council, by decision of 6 December 2005, proposed to its members the adoption of a Protocol amending and supplementing the IPR Agreement, i.e. TRIPS agreement. The deadline for adoption of this Protocol is by the end of 2011, and until today it has been adopted by 28 members of the world trade organisation, including the European Union. As therefore the Protocol has been adopted by the European Union in the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the legal system of the European Union, amendments and additions to the patent law already included provisions which are in full compliance with the provisions of this Protocol. The cited provisions set out uniform procedures for the issue of forced patent licences and certificates of additional protection relating to the production of pharmaceutical products for exports to the country with public health problems. The adoption of this Protocol by the Republic of Croatia ensures the implementation of our international obligations undertaken by membership in the World Trade Organisation. In view of the fact that amendments or additions to the text cannot be made to the Protocol and that its provisions are already included in the Patent Act, it is proposed that the draft law be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59762	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59763	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The creation of strong legal mechanisms for the protection of intellectual property rights and the implementation of laws within national laws in accordance with the obligations undertaken under the IPR Agreement is a humane achievement of the civilised world and the SDP will give unreserved support and vote for this law. However, this is an opportunity to talk about the innovation system in the Republic of Croatia and quality infrastructure in the context of the protection of intellectual property and state support for this system. Mr. Secretary of State has already mentioned that the elements of this agreement have been incorporated into the patent law and that is because we had an extremely large number of patents here in Croatia because the strongest international powers, thanks to us having one Pliva, patented our innovations and patents right in Croatia. Research and development leading to important and applicable discoveries and patents also require adequate protection in order to recover the funds invested and ensure new investment for new discoveries and development. One of the biggest problems arises when new, important and effective medicines are discovered, because ethics requires that the widest population be provided with their proper availability, and yet it is clear that this has a huge price and that those researches that result from new medicines must be paid. Maybe it's the most obvious example of HIV. It is before us, therefore, the proposal for a law on the validation of a protocol amending and supplementing the TRIPS agreement, which the Government says in the assessment of the situation, I quote to allow members of the World Trade Organisation to export patented medical products to third countries that do not have production pharmaceutical capacities and to address the problem in their public health and with the present licence. Here we have two key terms pharmaceutical capacities and public health. It's also an opportunity to remind ourselves of Professor Dr. Andrija Printar and the doctrine of public health, this perhaps most spectacular Croatian export product of all time which is just Dr. The printer installed in the World Health Organization's Statute by setting up her and the first vice president and becoming president would probably have been if he hadn't come from a small country. He has better prevented that people's proverb than treated here in the World Trade Organisation Statute. However, regarding the pharmaceutical capacities of the Republic of Croatia, we must certainly mention the rise and fall of Pliva as a modern chronicle of debauchery. Pliva, which is short of the production of medicines and vaccines, had a focus on knowledge from the beginning, and in 1952 the Plivin Research Institute was founded. As a result, in the next ten years, a number of organic compounds and most medicines were introduced in regular production. Such orientation and continuous promotion of the scientific and research spirit in order to develop its own new products, Pliva slowly rose to a world-renowned pharmaceutical company that was at one point among ten if not five of the world's strongest pharmaceutical companies. Piva subsequently dragged the entire Croatian pharmaceutical industry, belonging to infrastructure, colleges, knowledge. By the 1990s, its total range was about 2,500 products, hundreds of medicines of which were large numbers based on their own pharmaceutical raw materials or prescriptions. Thanks to the research work 90% of all products were done by their own Croatian technologies Plivina. More than 100 larger or smaller production energy storage facilities were built, and annual exports were several hundred million dollars. In 1970, Piva patented the original semi-synthetic antibiotic Azithromycin and the procedure for its acquisition. The world's most developed countries, as I said, are patenting their pharmaceutical products in then-Yugoslavia, and today, at least in the early 1990s in Croatia, fearing exactly Pliva and generally Croatian scientists from the pharmaceutical industry. The Croatian pharmaceutical industry led by Pliva grew on the basis of profit generated not by market benefit, because at the time the price was 1/5 of the world market price, but because of its excellent business. Pliva's shareholders consciously gave up this profit and instead of spending their profits aimed at expanding production. In 1993, however, Pliva became a stock company, Croatia nationalized, set up a new management and soon closed the production of B vitamin, C vitamin, sold cosmetics, sold the food programme Pliva that was soon and closed because it was competition with Hippu that bought it, and the most regrettable was sold by the Research Institute, the one in which 200 million US dollars were invested. And finally, non-transparently without a public tender, it was hidden away from the eyes and ears of the public in Verona that Plive fell and sold out, and the cheerful society of the former composition still of the current government made a great effort to continue to try to undermine the pharmaceutical industry by trying to destroy Podravka and his daughter Belupo's company. And it could have been the end of the Croatian pharmaceutical programme that, however, Belupo and some other pharmaceutical companies did not survive and self-organised in the Croatian Association of innovative drug manufacturers. Today, they must look for, unfortunately, only minimal market niche for the time being, mostly local character. Fortunately, and this changes, but not thanks to the far-sighted actions of our government, but thanks to the recognition of Croatian experts, their innovation and scientific potential and, for example, India has realised its first investment in Ludbreg by buying a factory of hard gelatin capsules Lukaps by the Indian company ACG Worldwide. However, what the government does is to support foreign investment and the development of an innovation system especially in the pharmaceuticals sector. Here are the data that we are more than miserable about tax burdens because the international KPMG house which investigates and auditions taxes on investment advice in the international environment has announced that as far as Croatia's taxes are concerned, with a combined rate of 53.3% carries an infamous first place. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the creation of strong legal mechanisms for the protection of intellectual property rights and the implementation of laws within national laws, and the basis of an agreement taken by the World Trade Organisation, so this agreement on the external aspects of intellectual property rights popularly called TRIPS is a civilised achievement of the civilised world, and the adoption of this Protocol by the Republic of Croatia ensures not only the implementation of international obligations undertaken by membership in the VTO, and I hope that this is not the only reason why we accept this law, but also creates an environment for helping Croatian firms. However, where these strong support for scientific and technological development and infrastructure development, quality. Well, our measurements are in a real mess. Yesterday we had the Law on these pension funds and we had the opportunity to increase the level of risk capital and to enable investment not only in bonds and shares, but also in concrete projects which Croatian scientists have, as we have seen, especially in this segment, but there is no systematic state concern and support. The Croatian innovation system has no trace. The transition to the digital age in Croatian is one of the eclutant examples, here is the analogue signal, and we have adopted a way of quoting popularly called MPG2 which is significantly lower quality than MPG4 even though it is widely used in Europe and the world. There's probably a certain way we'll be leaving that technology in a few years, so we'll probably have to throw a huge number of these cheap receivers that we've imported from China. Let's go back to one sentence from the review of this law. I quote the adoption of this law could benefit the Croatian pharmaceutical industry which can offer to produce a pharmaceutical product on the basis of a forced licence. Honored colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, when we leave the clinic and say the adoption of this law can benefit or benefit the Croatian innovation system and the pharmaceutical industry. When we are able to do so, then it will be known that the Croatian Government is doing its job and doing the rules of the game to support the transfer of knowledge and scientific-academic communities to the economy, to the benefit of all citizens and to the growth of gross social product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59764	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59765	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Croatia has been a member of the World Trade Organisation since its founding since the Ministerial Conference in Marrakesh on 15 April 1994, the World Trade Organisation promotes the principles of an open and equal system of trade rules, progressive liberalisation and the elimination of customs and non-tariff barriers to trade, goods and services, the removal of all protenseist measures and discriminatory treatments in international trade relations, the achievement of the highest possible degree of transparency of the trade multilateral system. This also includes the integration of undeveloped and developing countries, as well as transition countries. Croatia became a member of the VTO on 30 November 2000, which means that Croatia as a responsible VTO member supports the organisation's development goals, as well as the legitimate right of members of the VTO to have access to the necessary medicines in the interest of public health. For this reason, the Republic of Croatia shall endeavour to contribute as soon as possible to the entry into force of this Protocol, amending and supplementing the IPR Agreement. By decision of 6 December 2005, the World Trade Organisation's administrative council proposed amending and supplementing the agreement, the deadline for adoption of the agreement was late 2011, and adopted by 28 member states of two-thirds, one of which was also accepted by the European Union. As the Protocol was adopted by the European Union, or by the 27 Member States, in the process of harmonising with European legislation, the Republic of Croatia has already included in the amendments and amendments to the 2007 patent law provisions which correspond in substance and in full, in line with the provisions of the said Protocol. The cited provisions have established uniform procedures for the issue of forced patent licences and certificates of additional protection relating to the production of pharmaceutical products for export to countries with public health problems. Therefore, by accepting this protocol, Croatia ensures the implementation of the international commitments undertaken, which is why the Croatian Democratic Community club supports its adoption. It may be a debate on this law and an occasion to remind that intellectual property, therefore as industrial, copyright and related rights or industrial property in a broader sense, such as intellectual capital, innovation, patents, in today's global knowledge economy is becoming one of the cornerstones of the competitiveness of national economies. Data show that the world's largest brands, such as Coca-Cola, General Electric, Microsoft, IBM, McDonald's, therefore have more than 75% of their market value in intellectual capital, into which they enter and intellectually own in the broadest sense, while real estate, machinery, equipment, etc. make up less than 25% of the value. Therefore, Croatia needs to invest more in research and development, and innovation policy in general, which should, above all, contribute to greater economic competitiveness through the processing industry. In fact, we now have a situation that total investment in research and development in the Republic of Croatia is about 1% of GDP. In the EU, it is 1.9 while in countries like Japan, such as the US, it amounts to over 3% of the total investment in science and research GDP. In this regard, Croatia must follow the EU policy, in particular the first green innovation paper, the first innovation action plan of 1996, the Lisbon Declaration of the European Council, which particularly declares this innovation policy and also the Barcelona Declaration, which says it will invest in research and development and that it must double and make up 3% of the EU's total GDP in the future, but also include in this research and development a maximum of this private sector, i.e. an industry that should make up two-thirds of those funds, while this public sector would be only in one-third. Thus, in the future, strengthen more and more cooperation between science and the economy. So, which should contribute in total, especially to the development of high and medium-sized technologies. Finally, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law for the purposes of the protocol, for the purpose of helping countries, undeveloped countries, but also for the orderly implementation of their international obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59766	I thank and conclude the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Protocol amending and supplementing the IPR Agreement (TRIPS), an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 610. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Protocol amending and supplementing the IPR Agreement (TRIPS). Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 114 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59769	I thank the Honorable Mr. President, MPs and MPs at the Croatian Parliament. In front of you is the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Traffic Recording Devices. By passing the Working Time Act, mandatory mobile workers' vacations and road traffic recording devices adopted in 2008 and published in the National No. 60/08. The process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU has been continued. Of course, this was about regulations and directives in the field of road transport and the European agreement on the work of the crew on vehicles carrying out international road transport, the AETR has been abbreviations. In this law, the area of social conditions in road transport activity in the Republic of Croatia must be systematically regulated by one regulation with clearly defined content of individual institutes and established competences for the exercise of control over its implementation. The law lays down rules on the maximum duration of daily and weekly driving times, weekly working hours, night work, driving interruptions, daily and weekly rest periods. As well as, of course, the employer's obligations to keep the relevant records in order to fully and evenly apply the rules on working time and rest of the driver. The law also lays down the obligation to install tachographs for certain categories of vehicles and set up the frameworks for the introduction of digital tachographs into the Republic of Croatia. In the interest of road safety, the law envisioned continuous checks on both roads and company headquarters. I must point out that road checks are carried out by representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and road traffic inspectors of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and only representatives, i.e. inspectors of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, at the headquarters of the companies themselves. Of course, all in order for any breach of the prescribed obligations to be sanctioned in an effective manner. The practice itself shows that such a system should be upgraded, so the final bill proposes to regulate the following issues: harmonising the way in which the penalties for infringements are imposed in this area with EU rules and that is one of the reasons and suggestions for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. EU rules, unlike domestic legislation, violations in the area... They categorise legislation in a group of less serious, serious and very serious infringements, and in order to unify how competent supervisory authorities are handled and, of course, uniform penalties for identical infringements in the field of EU Member States, it is necessary to amend the infringement provisions of the applicable law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposal also provides for the establishment of the powers of the Registrar to prescribe a regular check form carried out by the competent authorities for the purpose of the legal and consistent application of the provisions of that law allowing domestic supervisory authorities to sanction the same infringements which are punishable in the EU Member States and keeping records which are unique in order to exchange relevant data with the competent authorities of other EU Member States. The proposal also proposes to lay down the powers of the Registrar to prescribe expert training programmes for testing and installation of tachographs and to prescribe the appearance and content of road verification forms carried out by the competent supervisory authorities. The regulation of sanctions for workshops is also proposed which, following the expiry of the prescribed permits, continue to carry out activities related to verification, inspection, installation and the like in tachographs, and also prescribe sanctions for drivers for certain illegal actions. And, of course, more precisely, the content of certain concepts and their meaning, such as nighttime, determines the definitions of certain concepts, such as driver activity certificates, resulting in a proper and more complete application of the legal provisions. I must point out that the very adoption of the proposal has carried out consultations or talks with representatives of the carrier unions, as well as all relevant factors involved in the implementation of this law itself, so that this bill is in line with them. I had to mention a lot of debates about night work, and I must say that the provisions mean the current law, which are Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 concerning mobile workers and night work will not apply until the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union, so until then the mobile workers will be subject to the provisions of the Labour Act. And here is the end I must also point out, so that the Government accepts the proposed amendments to the Committee on Legislatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59770	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59771	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. According to the results of one survey, many companies are at risk of not achieving the benefits that otherwise come from mobile work, and this is due to the employment of the wrong people in such jobs, poor governance and the provision of inadequate communication resources. Bad governance can in particular have serious consequences for the success of a mobile worker, with too little and too little communication having a negative effect. Lack of regular communication can lead to more stress and feelings of isolation, while excessive interference can create a feeling of mistrust. These findings are very important if we consider the fact that mobile workers represent one quarter of the working population. Managers should not make a typical mistake to treat mobile workers as other employees who do their job in company offices. They must be successful communicators who build good relationships and their management styles must be flexible in order to adapt to different personalities within the working team. In addition, organisations must provide mobile workers with adequate tools and resources by providing them with the same level of connectivity as the employees in the company’s offices. The Law amending and supplementing the Labour Time Act on Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Marking Devices in Road Transport has continued the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the European Union, in particular meeting the obligations set out in the negotiating positions for Chapter 14 – Transport policy, which relate to compliance with Directives and regulations in the field of road transport. And we at the HSS Club will support his passing. This law is within the social legislation group and aims to improve the working conditions and safety protection of persons carrying out the mobile activity of road transport and drivers. In addition, this law has a significant impact on raising road safety levels, equating competition conditions and promoting better supervision. Installation of Regulation 561/2006. The European Parliament and the Council, as well as the annexes of the regulation, have several objectives in our law that are extremely important. This is the harmonisation of social rules relating to road transport, the application of uniform rules on working time, breaks and rest periods of drivers carrying out road transport, as this Regulation applies regardless of the country of registration of a road transport vehicle carried out in the field of the European Union. This law also aims at equating sanctions for infringements in connection with that law, because the penalties in the Republic of Croatia were significantly less than those in the European Union, and as such they were stimulating for carriers, because the profits were much greater than the fine itself if they carried out transport contrary to the provisions of the law. This law also increases the responsibility of the legal person and the responsible person in the legal person, and does not reduce the liability of the driver. By raising the level of road safety, black road transport statistics also want to be reduced. Statistics from EU member states show that over 11,000 drivers died on the European Union roads last year, and in most cases, as many as 85% of cases, the main cause of the accident was the speed and fatigue of the driver. In particular, these amendments and additions to the law are required to use tachographs correctly. Namely, all vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of 3,5 tonnes and buses constructed or permanently adapted for the transport of more than 9 passengers including the driver must also have a tachograph, but some did not use it properly as Article 9 of this Act from now on will be punishable. This Article also provides for an exemption from the application of the law to special vehicles for the transport of bees, in view of the specific conditions of carrying out this activity. The law provides for an exemption from the application of legal provisions on driving times, driving interruptions, and a daily and weekly rest on the transport of vehicles used for the collection of milk from agricultural holdings, in particular the conditions under which such transport is carried out. We at the HSS Club believe that the exceptions should also include car carriers providing winter service services, as they are specific conditions of work that depend on weather conditions. The snow does not know what it says in our law that it could adapt to when it will fall, and when not, and we think that the ministry should nevertheless respect the specificities of this activity through the amendments to the law, because winter service providers are now inevitably being brought into a conscious violation if they want to do their job on time and responsibly. And we think, of course, it's in our best interests that we have an efficient winter service that works from 0 to 24. Well, we're giving the ministry a chance to reconsider our proposal and possibly correct it with its amendment. Today is the International Day of Dignity, and to all workers, and especially to mobile workers we are discussing today on behalf of the HSS Club, we congratulate their day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59772	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ Club and Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59773	Dear President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Secretary of State has very precisely listed those amendments that are proposed in this proposal of the existing law and I would not repeat them, but here are just a few thoughts in support of these changes because in some ways we are all participants in transport and all that leads to improving traffic and traffic safety should be supported because either we are drivers or we are passengers or we are pedestrians. In some ways, it is inevitable. We, by this amendment, are in fact fulfilling the obligation set out in the negotiating positions for Chapter 14. Transport policy, and we're slightly bringing an end to the full adaptation of our legislation to European Union legislation. As it is usually difficult to come to order in life without punishment and in these changes that were lacking in the existing law, certain violations and penalties for those who do not comply with the prescribed law are proposed in accordance with the regulations of the European Union. What is very important is that workshops are sanctioned which, let's say so freely, muddle with tachographs, and in order for it to be necessary to be effective, which means having and clearly prescribed the way in which the verification is carried out, and also how the competent authorities perform their part of the task. It's actually the most important part, and that part that concerns more precise determination of the content of certain concepts, I don't think it's such a significant and clear statement. And for this reason, the HDZ Club is in any event supporting this amendment by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59774	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's Madam Representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59775	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. Under the proposal of this law, the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union has been continued. The Republic of Croatia adopted the European Agreement on the work of the crew on vehicles carrying out international road transport which prescribed certain restrictions on the duration of driving and compulsory rest, and the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia should also be aligned with the provisions of the said Agreement. By adopting that law, the area of social conditions in road transport activities in the Republic of Croatia was first systematically regulated by one regulation, with a clearly defined content of individual institutes and established competences to exercise control over its implementation. As the bill states, for the purpose of protecting the health and safety of drivers and other mobile workers, as well as to raise the general level of safety of road transport of passengers and cargo, the rules on the maximum duration of the daily and weekly driving times, weekly working hours, night work, driving interruptions, etc. are prescribed. In particular, it is important to regulate nighttime work in view of the psychophysical consequences that long-term and burdensome working hours have on the health of persons, as well as an explicit ban on the financial promotion of such work at the expense of road safety. This law also lays down the obligations of employers to keep records in order to lay down rules on working time and vacations for drivers to fully and evenly apply. The law stipulates that integrated analogue tachographs must have vehicles whose maximum permissible mass with a connected vehicle is greater than 3,5 tonnes and buses constructed or permanently adapted for the transport of more than 9 passengers. In addition, the law lays down a legal framework for the introduction of a digital tachograph into the Republic of Croatia and thus complies with the European Union rules. Digital tachograph allows for simpler monitoring, practicality of the indication and information processing of collected data. The law also regulates the way in which personalized memory cards are issued and assigned. All data relevant to each user shall be stored in the form of a digital record. The law provides for continuous road checks and company headquarters by competent institutions so that any breach of the prescribed obligations can be sanctioned in an effective manner. Due to all these amendments to this law, the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59776	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59777	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Working Time Act, mandatory mobile workers' vacations and road traffic recording devices was adopted in May 2008. This law regulates the working time and mandatory rest of workers and drivers in road transport, driving time, driving time and rest period for drivers carrying out road transport of freight and passengers, the way in which the permit is obtained. It shall prescribe recording devices in road transport, conditions and procedures of control, the competence of the body and their authority, official records and infringements and criminal provisions. These amendments and amendments to the law continue the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. Furthermore, the obligations set out in the negotiating positions relating to Chapter 14 shall be met and shall relate to the area of road transport. It shall also comply with the provisions of the applicable law with the regulations of the European Union in the section relating to the regulation of infringements and the corresponding penalties according to their weight. This proposal lays down the type of transport not subject to the provisions on time and interruption of driving for the specificity of transport, and provides for exemptions from the application of the Road Transport Act. The present proposal also specifies which special vehicles are concerned. Workshops shall be sanctioned which, following the expiry of the prescribed permits, continue to carry out activities relating to the verification, examination, installation of tachographs and penalties for drivers for certain illegal actions shall be prescribed. Also, this proposal now sets out everything that was not clearly defined in the applicable law, which made it difficult to implement it, for example, that tachographs must be used in a prescribed way so far, not clear when nighttime is marked. Now that time is defined as the time between 24.00 and 5 a.m. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Most of the amendments and additions to the existing law relate to infringements and provisions and impose sanctions on certain unlawful conduct which has not been sanctioned by the applicable law. Namely, the European Union rules systematise the violation of social legislation into three categories depending on their weight. It is therefore necessary to comply with the infringements of the applicable law with the guidelines and regulations of the European Union in order to level the penalties for the same infringements. What now seems to be the biggest problem when it comes to amending and supplementing the existing law, as this law has been implemented for over a year without any major difficulties. So 99% of this is actually already working. What is the problem, it is the problem of waiting for our drivers and driving at the border with the European Union. According to this proposal, it would count as a driving time. Therefore, this puts them in an unfavourable position with regard to colleagues from the European Union, which collects business. And therefore, that is what many of the drivers and owners of the owner at this point are making comments that this is in some way being resolved at least during that period until we become a member of the European Union. The problem could be solved in two ways by prolonging the implementation of this law until the entry into the European Union or by setting different waiting times at the border and making it a time of rest, rather than driving because many of our drivers stand for a few hours, 6 to 7 hours. So, they can't start right now, but they have to, so wait time or have another driver or get along in some ways that I don't think right now should be a problem until we join the European Union. So it is my suggestion that this time, that the application of this law should be extended until the entry into the European Union. I think that it is a good bill, because the purpose of these amendments and the addition of the laws is, therefore, by harmonising with the legislation of the European Union, to improve the conditions of work and safety for the protection of persons who carry out the mobile activity of road transport and drivers, to raise road transport levels and to equalise the conditions of competition and to promote better supervision if all this proposal is given and, in fact, by many who are engaged in this activity, he gives it and everyone is particularly pleased with this proposal, and that is why I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59778	Thank you. Mr. Millyov Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59779	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, Mandatory holidays of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport. This Working Time Act is recorded in road transport carried by mobile workers and devices in 2008. The process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, regulations and directives in the field of road transport has been continued. For the first time, this legislative solution has been systematically governed by a regulation with clearly defined content of individual institutes and established competences for further supervision of its implementation. In order to protect the health and safety of drivers and other mobile workers, as well as to raise the general level of safety of road transport of passengers and cargo, rules on the maximum duration of daily and weekly driving times, weekly working hours, night work, driving interruptions, daily and weekly rest and other things are laid down. Furthermore, the law also lays down the obligations of employers to keep appropriate records in order to fully and evenly apply the rules on working time and rest of drivers. The law also laid down a legal framework for the introduction of a digital tachograph in the Republic of Croatia and thus brought the law implemented in line with European Union regulations. In the interest of road safety, the law provided for constant road checks, both in the headquarters of companies by the competent authorities, in order to ensure that the infringement of the prescribed obligations would be sanctioned in an effective manner. In addition to the above and the detailed reasons for all the changes that are taking place, the harmonisation necessary for the European Union's rules, the proposed law also addresses the following important issues that I think should be highlighted. First, it shall be authorised by the Registrar to prescribe an expert training programme for the examination and installation of tachographs and to prescribe the appearance and content of road verification forms carried out by the competent supervisory authorities. Other sanctioned workshops which continue to carry out their activities in connection with verification, inspection, installation, and the placing of tachographs after the expiry of the prescribed permits, and which also prescribe sanctions for drivers for the purpose of determining illegal actions, the determination of illegal actions. More specifically, the content of certain concepts and their meaning, such as the notion of nighttime, are determined by new institutes, e.g. the concept of the driver’s activities and will ultimately result in a more correct and complete application of the legal provisions. I also take the opportunity to thank the comments made on the Committee on Transport, and they focused on certain problems if all articles of the law were applied immediately, that this was respected, so Articles 4, 5. Only use when entering the European Union. This will lead to the fact that we will not have problems waiting at the Slovenian border, i.e. the problems of bringing new drivers, etc., in order to in some way enable our economies to have as little cost as possible and in some way to be equal with their colleagues in the European Union. And I'd also like to join my colleague Petyr's debate, and I don't know how much more can be done right now, but I think she mentioned a very current and life-threatening problem, and that's the problem with the winter service. We know, here I come from a small environment, and when the winter service is arranged, the problem is if there's a rainfall two days in a row, the duty is great, and for example, It could be done in the package it will be necessary to hire three drivers in one day to cover it legally. So I join this remark, try to see if there is anything else that can be done next to the normal fence that we will not disrupt the compliance of this law with the European Union rules. And I would add to the question of firefighters who I think are just as small, their functioning will become a problem with strict application, and it can't be different from strict application of this law. I will support the adoption of these remarks of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59780	Thank you. Ms. Representative Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59781	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, as we have heard on today's day of decent work, we have the opportunity to discuss a law whose provisions in some parts are actually not in line with the dignity of work, that is, not to the benefit, but to the harm of workers, so I will warn here about two aspects of that law, and one definition of nighttime, that is Article 2 of the final bill, which suggests that nighttime is defined in the period from 0 to 5 hours, and according to the definition set out in Council Directive 2002/15/EC of the organisation of working time for persons performing mobile activities on the road. The directive I mentioned defines nighttime as a period of at least 4 hours, as defined by national legislation between 0 and 7 hours. It is important to say that the means of defining nighttime depend on the material rights of workers who work, or drive at night. If the final proposal defines nighttime in a way that includes a period of 0 to 5 hours, this could also result in workers, i.e. drivers who will drive within 5 to 7 hours not paying an increased salary based on night work, nor will those workers enter the category of night workers for which the employer is obliged to provide health checks, as a health protection measure in accordance with the Labour Act, and in that sense workers proposed under Article 12(3) of the Law will be damaged. Furthermore, it should be noted that the directive that I have mentioned by defining certain institutes, so the Institute of Nighttime actually defines the minimums, and in this context determines that nighttime includes at least 4 hours in the given period from 0 to 7 hours, so there are no obstacles that according to the directive nighttime is defined in a way that the period of nighttime is considered to be 0 to 6 instead of 5 hours. It should be noted in fact that, in this respect, greater road safety is ensured, since workers who drive up to 6 instead of 5 hours, as it is now proposed, would fall within the limit of the total duration of nighttime work prescribed in Article 7 of the Law. I also think it is not good that the application of Article 3 of the Law is not delayed, i.e. Article 2 of the final draft of the law until the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia, as is the case with the provisions of Articles 4 to 9 of the Law, so that, by way of effect of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, compulsory committees of mobile workers and road transport recording devices, workers would be damaged by the amended definition of nighttime, as they would receive less pay on that basis. I also want to warn about the level of penalties prescribed to drivers in the event of a misdemeanor, for example if they exceed driving time, and I think the penalties are inappropriately high, and they climb even up to several thousand kunas, given the wages paid in that sector. Namely prescribed punishment as I said can reach up to half the salary of workers, if, for example, the worker drives two hours more than allowed and does not use a vacation. Well, I ask the promoters to take these remarks, and given the fact that not only today, but also one social sensitivity and concern for drivers at the end of the day and for the safety of road traffic, they respect and consider these remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59782	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59783	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's the law we accept, as is said, the social conditions of road traffic, as regards, of course, employees, as well as increasing the safety of passengers in transport, and that is why, of course, I accept this law. I think the legal provisions on driving times, i.e. the rest should be strict, should be, and it is also necessary to ensure that they are respected because we know that a tired driver can be a great danger to traffic safety. And that's why I'm just going to look back on this aspect. Let us remember the recent events in Veljun when the bus where 44 children were hit as reported in fact was an accident and 33 children were actually transported to the Karlovak hospital. Namely, symptoms of tiredness and drowsiness come undetected. It also sinks gradually into the drowsiness. Such a dream lasts very briefly, perhaps for a second, two, but enough time for the tragedy to happen. The dream drivers usually catch up after a long drive and most often in the morning, in fact, what the colleague just said about night work. In order to reduce the risk of sleeping behind the wheel, of course, it is necessary to make concrete decisions on working time, on the number of kilometers, or legally limit what is actually done by this law. According to the Ministry of Transport, about 200 thousand school students are driving on school buses daily. We talked recently about licensed buses, it's one segment of child's safety in traffic. However, just as these two accidents in Karlovac have shown that the health condition and working conditions of the driver are very important. I therefore welcome another rule on the maximum duration of daily and weekly driving times, on weekly working hours, night work, driving interruptions, daily and weekly rest periods, etc. All of this, of course, affects the health of the person in whose hands our passengers are. I also welcome the legal framework because I think the digital tachograph will also affect the increase in traffic safety because this actually enables precise driving control. Often, tachographs in vehicles are also called "black boxes" of every bus and truck, but very often we have examples and manipulations and I hope that this law will actually lead to the reduction of the same, all for the safety and employees of traffic and passengers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59784	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59785	Thank you. Dear colleagues Bonačić, in your debate, also referred to the need for good health checks on the driver as well as on the problem of fatigue. So you essentially underline the importance of medical work in this segment. Unfortunately, the medical work has been slightly neglected in our system, somehow lost its function until recently and should have been particularly in the context of today’s public health doctrines of Andrija Printar. Recently, we also had a report from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, each pension on a regular basis, each fourth regular pension in the Republic of Croatia refers to invalidity pensions. Now either there's something wrong or we have really catastrophic working conditions so that just getting a job and working leads to a 25% chance of becoming disabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59786	Answer nothing, thank you. And we still have one replica, Mr. Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59787	My colleagues, you mentioned a large number of accidents that happen on our roads. You also mentioned that one of the reasons are symptoms of fatigue happening while driving. I would like to point out this opportunity and take advantage of the opportunity to appeal and to note that there is another major problem, i.e. the cause of a large number of road accidents, which are rough roads, roads that are not fixed in time, a large number of holes that exist on the roads. Since I'm a lot on the road I see it is and I often face this problem that it's one of the bigger problems. I am convinced that this is one of the problems which is one of the major causes of various accidents, but I must also mention one group of drivers, i.e. motorcycles whose roadholes represent a much bigger problem than cars, and I think that's one of the reasons why we have a large number of motorcycle accidents on the road. I think that here I am appealing and I hope that such problems will be solved as soon as possible, that the holes on the road will not be opened for 2, 3 months but will be improved as soon as possible, and that I also appeal that the roads that are in pretty bad shape, especially in this northwestern part of Croatia, should be fixed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59788	Answer, Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59789	Here's a colleague and you and before our colleague Zdenko were actually talking about different aspects of traffic safety. The colleague also suggested, he was actually talking about health, how important it is to control the health of the driver, and you were, of course, talking about the configuration itself, that is, the safety of the infrastructure and the road itself. So we see that we have several factors that actually work on the safety of our road passengers, and also on the safety of our road users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59790	Thank you. It's Mrs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59791	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. On this day, the Day of Dignity we can really ask ourselves, and on the occasion of the debate on this bill, which should be contributed, we can ask ourselves, who took away his dignity, who took away his dignity, who took away his dignity, who took away his decent working conditions? Who's protecting the worker? Who's protecting him from payouts? Who's protecting him from not being paid overtime? Who protects him from working and when he's not supposed to work under the law and when he can't work? Who protects him from the inhuman conditions in which he works? Does the government know about 100,000 lawsuits, about 100,000 cases where workers demand their salary? Why does the government persistently refuse to protect above all the basics so that they can speak of the protection of any other right? Why does the government remain with its opinion that the amendment of the Penal Code and the inclusion of a crime of non-payment of wages that would prevent all of this, says that legal certainty would be compromised? Well, whose legal certainty I'm asking you to. You see me as the Government itself says in its proposal we must pass this law and bring it into line with a number of directives. But equally it would be necessary, that's what the government is saying, so it's surprising why we're not here to really bring this law back to life which is a good bill when it comes into force, really lives with his life, and it wouldn't be another letter of dead letter in the alphabet of the dead rights of workers. It is about European directives that protect and talk about social legislation. There are even three categories of violations from those most mild, here are classified minor infriedgment, serious infriedgment, very serious infriedgment. So, those minor, medium and serious violations. So we expected that, as a single package of laws, this law would be brought to life. The bill of law in almost none of its provisions has anything to object to. Maybe to think a little bit about stricter punishments, but that doesn't even matter. It's important that those penalties be imposed. There may be one criminal provision missing, that one who doesn't punish such an employer who sends these people who live here now we're talking about mobile workers, these are the people who drive freight vehicles. These are people who are often tired and overworked and who represent it, because of such conditions that are forced to do so often, the constant danger to themselves and to all those involved in traffic. We're talking about people whose house is traveling. The question of their safety is everyone's safety on the road, because the traffic accidents they cause are often fatal, often causing serious material consequences and human losses. That even though our roads are modern, the highways even become strategics, they almost die as if it were a war. And for the crazy us and these good laws when they will stay, if they remain a dead letter on paper. So whenever such good laws are proposed, you should always see what you are already starting to do to bring this law back together. And then we go back to the most painful part of the system, these are the controls. It's often said that we don't have enough inspectors or work to control it. However, we have seen that this is not the case. At the Smoking Act, the ban on working in catering facilities after 23.00 hours. We have seen that this law is impeccable, so when it comes to will, there is also a way to respect it or to exercise it. Here I am ending a relatively brief debate, and I appeal to it that it would be a shame that this law does not have mechanisms for its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59792	Thank you. We have a replica. First Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59793	Dear colleagues, Anticevic, in your discussion, spoke among other things about non-compliance with social and social rules because of insufficient social legislation, which leaves many legislative initiatives with a dead letter on paper. It is an opportunity for today's World Dignified Work Day to remind ourselves that the International Standardisation Organisation voted ISO 26000 on social and social responsibility a few days ago, under a strong UN patronage. The provisions of that norm are expected to have to be applied in the near future by members of the UN organisation. It would not be bad for the Government and this Croatian Parliament to start from the most recent future in our legal solutions to include some of the requirements and ISO standard 26,000 on social and social responsibility, which is now said to be the most significant norm that the ISO has brought into its history. Unfortunately, there is little knowledge in our society and there is little information about it, although the National Bureau of Standards has already held one workshop on the application of this norm and in the Republic of Croatia. And I am taking another chance to congratulate all workers on the World Day of Dignified Work, with the hope that we, too, will be able to implement ISO 26000 in our legislation in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59794	Thank you. We have a line further, Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59795	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the line, I was asked by my colleague Antičević by his question who took away the worker's dignity. It is a very clear answer, employers and business immorality have taken away the dignity of the Croatian employee. You ask how, in what way. So how many employers who do not regularly meet their obligations to suppliers, how many employers who have closed down, stopped their activities and took over the property. How many employers unwarrantedly and illegally fired employees, and the court brought them back. How many employers send their children off to the wrong bus and get set on fire and only God saves them on the highway so that 30 children who sleep in half the night driving on the bus don't burn. Business immorality has metastasized in the employers of Croatia, but in Austria, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, the same laws as in Croatia, but no one is wise enough to pay someone their obligation. And in the Croatian Code Association of Employers, there is no code of conduct to protect the dignity of their employees, there is no code of conduct that they must pay their obligations, there is no code of conduct that they have to comply with their obligations to the state, and at the same time every day they are in the media, and there is another Association of Catholic employers who are not known, and they are in the code that they are not allowed to behave, and the HUP is as if it has all employers in its district, and only 40% of all employees are employed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59796	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59797	You say, colleague, employers have taken away the worker's dignity. But it's only partially accurate and it doesn't reveal the real point of things. We're not here, none of us are a debate club, we're the government here, the legislative authority, and you're besides that power in power. And why does that happen, not because employers are so bad and then they won't pay and they don't meet their obligations. They only behave as much as the government allows. The government has made it possible for the employer to do this to the worker because the government exists to protect the weak, but by thinking that someone else is to blame and that something is happening to us because it is such a constellation, it means escape from responsibility. The government must finally understand that it is responsible, and above all it is responsible and exists to protect those who are weaker because they can protect themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59798	Thank you. We have another replica, Mr. Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59799	Comrade Antičević, in your debate, you spoke of a series of aspects that are problematic for road safety. So I would take advantage of, here because the debate is on road traffic, I would take this opportunity once again to appeal and to point out that here it is, for example, for the first time, as I said that the northwest is a bad part of the roads, i.e. that the roads are in a pretty bad state, and that the Krapina-Zagorje County and the Varazdin County have really bad roads, roads that should be reconstructed and roads where there are a large number of accidents. Also in Varazdin County, there is one road connecting four cities, such as Varazdin, Ivanec, Lepoglav and Krapina. The road is in a very bad state. It can't be reconstructed. But what has been in the government's programme for many years, it is a fast road that would connect these four cities, and that road cannot come, start or build or think about its construction. I hope to think about its construction since it's in the government's program, but it's a letter on paper and I hope that in the near future that road will live. I would point out that this road is a road with a lot of tractors, a lot of cyclists, a road that has a large number of traffic, over 6,000, on the Varazdin-Ivanec move of more than 6,000 cars, and I think it is high time to start building such a fast road that would connect these four cities and that practically this part of northwestern Croatia does not remain a appendix. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59800	Thank you. With these discussions on MPs and MPs, the secretary of state Ivica Perovic will address briefly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59801	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I thank you for a truly high-quality and constructive debate on the proposed text of amendments and amendments to the law. What I would like to point out is that in the current provisions of the Labour Time Act in Article 1(2), the purpose of this law is to improve the working conditions and security protection of persons. Here I must stress the person, quote, who performs the mobile activity of road transport and drivers, raising the level of road safety and equating conditions of competition, as well as promoting improved supervision. Here's what I have to say is that there's been a debate here today and all these topics have been touched. Here, I'll just take a quick word for what I didn't mention in the opening part. As regards vehicles subject to this control obligation in the Republic of Croatia, a total of 55473 vehicles, of which 50399 were vehicles with the highest permissible mass above 3.5 tonnes and 5074 buses, meaning this was the situation with 1 January 2010. In 2009, the law prescribed the obligation to verify at least 2% of working days. And here's one piece of information that the surveillance inspection, there were discussions, the Ministry of the Sea, traffic and infrastructure in the company's premises supervised a total of 121169 driver's working days, while checks on public roads other than traffic ministry inspectors were carried out by police officers, and checks were covered by a total of 74786 working days. As for 2010, 7180 drivers were supervised, so in rooms, companies, of course, on the road. This year's legal obligation, at least 3%. As far as the fines are concerned, here's only a short one. So, in 2009, it was charged to $117200, and fines amounting to €323600 were imposed, while in the first 8 months of 2010, we have been charged fines of €282200, and fines amounting to €280800 were imposed. So this was a period of, here we can now two years of law enforcement itself. Here's a quick answer for the debate. So, Mrs. Petir mentioned the meaning of the issues of the car carrier and the winter service. I must say that it means a draft proposal which we have sent to the European Commission on the basis of compliance with Regulation 561/2006. except for the meaning of what was proposed by fire trucks and this was the answer to the following question, meaning that no meaning was accepted by the European Commission. So we couldn't include that provision in the proposed text of the law, so this proposal is like this. And you know that, so all these crews of winter service, that means vehicles have several crews that change. And I have to say what was mentioned in the debate. So the security issue must be highlighted by traffic, so there may be no accident. As for the question about waiting at the border. Here's just a quick answer. Therefore, Article 3 paragraph 21 is prescribed to mean here a period of availability and it explicitly states that this wait at the border does not count at the time of driving. And it was questionable to ask a question related to Article 2 of the night period of 0-5 hours. I have to say that the proposal has been agreed, so social partners. There have been discussions and until the entry of the meanings of Croatia, that is to say, the accession into the European Union will be subject to the provisions of the Labour Act. As regards the penalties for drivers, they are prescribed, so in accordance with the regulations, so the European Commission and, of course, there must also be a responsibility and a driver as a participant in transport. Here's so much in this part, so about the question. My answer and here's my thanks for the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59802	Thank you very much, and I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Working Time Act on Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Recording Devices in Road Transport, Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. Number 603. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposer's representative adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and we do not vote on them because they become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Working Time Act on Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Recording Devices in Road Transport. Please, let's get involved and vote on this final bill along with the amendment adopted. The result? This law was adopted by most votes, 115 votes to, 2 abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59805	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me say a few words about this really important project for both the town of Sibenik and the county, but also for the port system of the Republic of Croatia. In Croatian ports, one of the largest investment procedures in the last few decades is currently under way. The total value of works now carried out in Croatian ports is 510m euros. Here I would stress the construction and expansion of the container terminal in the Brajdica River, followed by the construction of the Zagreb coast. It's a 100m-euro project. Then a new ferry is being built in Zadar and... The port in Gaženica, the ports are already visible and is now moving to the second stage of the construction of the port. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Split in August it is dedicated to the use of the extended St. Duje gat, and currently the work is under way to collect documentation for the construction of spatial planning documentation. In August, the first container terminal was handed over, a project worth around 37 million kuna, and the beginning of the following year the work on a new terminal for... cargo. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also a major project to invest in the infrastructure around 70m euros. In Dubrovnik this spring, it is dedicated to the use of a new passenger coast, and the preparations are currently being carried out to continue the construction of the so-called so-called ". The coast of Batahovina and what they say in Dalmatia has finally come to Sibenik. In Sibenik, passenger traffic currently takes place on the old Krka fortune built at the time of Austria-Hungarian, which is neither technological nor sized to meet the current requirements. With the construction of this new terminal, Vrulja port Sibenik receives a new 10,000 square meters and gets a new 500 meters of coast. We believe that the project is extremely important for the port and town of Sibenik. It is a passenger port, so the facilities that will be in the service of the city, in the service of the citizens of Sibenik, facilities restaurants, hotels etc. There won't be any, there won't be, there's no reason for any ecological, any other conflict with the administration. So, finally, in Sibenik, a big investment. The papers are in January. The selection of performers is now under way. Credit conditions are extremely favourable. It is a 12m-euro loan, a 4-year start, a EURO Libor interest plus one per cent. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this law for Sibenik, for the passengers coming to Sibenik and for the Croatian port system. I would like to stress that the substructure facilities will operate in the private sector based on an international tender and that the state will not continue to be in debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59806	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59807	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am truly honored to be able to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community about this very important project, as the Secretary of State has informed us. Thus, the proposal for this Act to confirm the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the Modernisation of the Infrastructures of Sibenik has a really great economic significance, both for citizens of the city of Sibenik, citizens of the County of Sibenik-Kninska and also for the whole of Croatia, because it represents another one throughout a number of very high-quality infrastructure projects of port infrastructure. As the secretary of state said, the value of all works carried out in ports of national importance is 5 hundred and 10 million euros. This project includes the reconstruction of the existing Kata Vrulja and the construction of the operational coast in the Sibenik port, making up a new operational coast of 5 hundred and 10 metres long. The effects to be achieved are the improvement of domestic passenger transport, will solve international traffic and will also solve the acceptance of ships on circular voyages of up to 2 hundreds and 60 meters, which has not been the case so far, it was not possible because there was no such operational coast. By doing so, the town of Sibenik will certainly provide a special stamp on the tourist offer, on the tourist map, and will improve excellent results this year in an economic branch called tourism. Equally, this is the example of gentlemen and Mrs. MPs creating preconditions for the opening of new jobs. This law therefore confirms the EBRD loan guarantee agreement of 12m euros to finance the modernisation of the Sibenik port. The loan is granted to the port authority in Sibenik for a total of 15 years, including a start of 4 years, and the loan funds will be available to the borrower as soon as the guarantee contract enters into force. And the use of loan funds was agreed by 15 May 2014. In addition, the realisation of this project opens up a great potential of investment activities in the port of Sibenik, so a little less than 28 million kuna for VAT payments and supervision of this project is provided in the budget of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. This proposal supports the Croatian Democratic Community club because it certainly has a major economic impact for the town of Sibenik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59808	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic, on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59809	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, though I come from Slavonia. And Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Although I come from Slavonia on this topic to confirm the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and because of the modernisation of the Sibenik port infrastructure, I would say that I would have nothing or anything to talk about. I welcome, therefore, the confirmation of this guarantee contract, which the European Bank therefore gives, i.e. a loan of 12 million euros, or a translation of 85 million kuna for the restoration of infrastructure in our port of Sibenik, in our Croatian, Krešimir town, which is about to experience and I would say the fate of our Slavonski Brod, and is slightly lags with regard to other towns on the coast, which is a fact, as well as Slavonski Brod compared to some cities in Slavonia. So when we compare it, compare it, what I said and when I discuss it, then I must say to Mrs. Nedi, the distinguished representative Klaric, that there is also a port in Slavonski Brod, on the Sava River, the second most important in river transport in the Republic of Croatia, after the port of Vukovar, that it is literally said on a drop of funds and that it has been built for almost 20 years, and that it has not yet been brought into service, or function for which it was built. Furthermore, at the same port, a new thousand and 500 jobs should be opened at the river port of Slavonski Brod, as the port also has an economic free zone. Unfortunately, there is no help from Slavonski Brod and the port of Brod, nor from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the funds of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are coming on the drop, and the amendments from the HDSSB have tried to ask for funds in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, but none of them. And so, here I am glad that at least Sibenik ours, I repeat Kreshimer's city again, here's this loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and with the help of the state of those 28 million kunas for supervision and you say VAT, still gets one significant economic facility that will help people, our people in the city of Sibenik and the surrounding area. I would also like to call, appeal that here goes the next budget soon to the benches of this High House, to remember this port of Sibenik, but also the ports of Slavonski Brod. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59810	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59811	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, I hope that one day after this and the port in Slavonski Brod, it will be resolved as soon as possible, including in Sisak and in all parts of Croatia, but as the Secretary of State said, 5 hundred million euros is being invested on the coast. It's huge money. This law confirms the loan guarantee contract agreed by the loan agreement. The total costs associated with the infrastructure modernisation project, Luka Sibenik, were estimated at almost 12m euros. The project includes reconstruction and construction of an operational coast at the Sibenik port in a way that some of the existing war extends around 510m in total. The EBRD confirmed co-financing of the project's costs, including the initial fee of 1% of the principal loan amount of 12m euros. According to the conditions offered by the EBRD, Sibenik's Port Authority has been granted a 15-year loan, including a 4-year pay-off. Most importantly, this will be a passenger port with facilities serving passengers and citizens of the city of Sibenik and the Sibenik-Knin County and all over Croatia. Based on the contest... will work in the private sector, and that is another wind in the back of domestic entrepreneurs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am very pleased to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59812	Thank you. There's a replica, Mrs. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59813	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm glad that our colleague and my fellow citizen Mr. Kulusic is experiencing both modernization and a new operational shore in the same way. I would only remind all of us here that definitely a new operational coast with Mega Marina being built owned by the Nautical Centre Prgin in which 17 million euros are invested will certainly, in any case, once again I have to say, the town of Sibenik is situated with a special stamp in the tourist offer, and also revitalise the conditionality of its historical significance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59814	Answer, Mr. Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59815	So I agree with my colleague Klaric that today Sibenik is not what was 10, 15 and 20 years ago, and all those who come to Sibenik today and through the Sibenik Channel see hundreds of yachts, especially related to Mega Marina, which is now being built over 150 berths will be for mega yachts, and so far there are about 200 berths and still in the spatial plan of the city of Sibenik and the county of Sibenik-Kninska so that Sibenik will soon become a strong tourist destination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-07-0.u59816	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned at first, we are now going to have a break. Please re-nouncing MPs and representatives to do a little benching, there will come our guests and take some of the first of these places so that we can, however guests are guests, have an advantage. And that's why I'm asking you to do it now and we'll continue at 13 o'clock in the solemn session, and I announce that on Wednesday 20.10. at 9.30 p.m. we will begin with the agenda final draft of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you, and I'll see you at 1:00. Thank you very much. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Guarantee Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction of Development for the "Modification of Infrastructure Project Luke Sibenik", was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 613. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction of Development for the "Modification of the Infrastructure Project Luke Sibenik". Let's please get involved and vote on this final bill. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 115 votes for, one abstention and nothing against.
