ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64102	We continue to work and move on to the agenda point - Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds in 2009 The Government submitted this Report on the basis of Article 69. The law on free legal aid. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Does he? Yeah. Mr. Zoran Pichuljan, State Secretary at the Department of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64103	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before you is the first Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid or the right to free legal aid since the entry into force of the Law on 8 June 2008 and from its application from 1 February 2009. What is important to mention about the Institute of Free or Legal Assistance is that this is actually the first time regulated by a single law modus instrumentation and assistance for citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but that it did not come without a kind of Croatian tradition and good customs and good legal regulations in this area, so we have so far and we still have the Institute of Law free assistance. And we also had once remembered judicial legal aid, and today still based on other regulations, not only does this mean the Law on a litigation process we still have the exemption from fees, i.e. from the costs of the procedure, and that is something that is still existing in addition to this system, and what will now be done by amending the Law on a litigation procedure to try to stop as much as possible to make this law truly an instrument for those who need it most and for their existential reasons. And here's some data that really seems interesting to me. Over 4 and a half thousand requests were received during this reporting period and 3182 requests were accepted. What's also interesting is where it was most sought, in fact, in which proceedings it was, the kind of legal aid in which the proceedings were most represented. The most represented in any case were in court proceedings over 70%, and legal advice accounts for almost 12 to 13%. It means that all other types of legal aid can be classified in ten to fifteen percent of cases. When further branches of this institute and demands are then it is seen that according to the types of procedures, the most interesting and the most represented family-law procedures are. Almost 50%. After that, the procedures are owned by about 13%, followed by 12% of the executive procedures, and it is interesting and not exactly encouraging that in 5 and a half percent and this is 174 procedures and related to the victims of domestic violence. According to the user's residence and the report shows in fact Croatian painting, Croatian reality. We are most represented, is this institute and the most used in Sisak-Moslavina County, then goes Vukovar-Srijemska, City of Zagreb, Osijek-Baranja County, Primorje-Gorskiska and Varazdinska, and afterwards they are all significantly smaller in number of procedures. The analysis will show itself in the report why and why it is so. It doesn't take any specific analysis to actually see at least these first three categories that it's about places that simply, where people live the worst. As far as the provider is concerned, this is an interesting information and a deviation from our expectations or expectations that were in one part that lawyers will not provide the largest number, will not be the most frequent providers. Incorrectly, lawyers are in 76% of cases. But it's respectable that associations do that in 24% of cases, 24.25%. As a result, it was also a good norm that in associations, in that institute, it provided quality free or legal assistance through educated people who would do so. So far, when we look at how it ended, we also have some administrative practice. Administrative disputes have so far been 20 and 3 are practically lost. It's 17, speaking from the point of view of the Justice Department. 17 confirmed the decision of the administrative authorities, thus showing that it is somewhat stabilised, i.e. stalking and judicial practice, and that it is fortunately not too rich. 28 associations and two legal clinics have been registered, which makes us particularly happy in Zagreb and Split. We hope that their activity will be much greater in the future and that this institute will expand through legal clinics. About the funds themselves secured 8 million and 245,000, in the ninth. About 6 million kunas and associations provide 2 million kunas for legal aid projects. And those funds were enough to do this job in legal aid. What was also interesting was that a single education system of administrative officials was developed. We think it's well done. What will still need to be done is increased and the value of the points for providing legal assistance to three kunas. A simplified form that is European but unfortunately complicated. And, in conclusion, it seems to us that the Institute has confirmed that law enforcement is confirmed by the introduction of this institute, that it is not without fault and that they have been removed in walking, but that they still need to be removed. First of all, the procedures have been simplified. They'll need to be kept simple. It will take speedy procedure, the procedure appears to be compared to the ordinary general administrative procedure and accelerated in a way that is resolved within 15 days, and may be urgent cases should be dealt with immediately. It will change, I have already mentioned this, the Law on a litigation procedure, and it will bring Croatia's legal regulations into line, and will now continue with the promotional, i.e. educational and I would say some sort of agreement and talks with the administrative bodies, what with the courts and further affirmation of this institute which is known, but still insufficiently identified and connected to the citizens themselves who need this help. Therefore, in three words the law and the report shows, it seems to me that it shows that the Institute of Free or Legal Assistance confirms, that it needs to be done to make it appear in walking, that it is a two-way road, it cannot be done only by state bodies, it needs those who, as well as the local community, citizens, courts and administrative bodies to do the same to adapt and bring this institute closer to citizens, and what is most important and certainly, to which everyone who needs this kind of assistance should have the right, the possibility and the rapid realization of legal assistance, it is the chalk of this law and these solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64104	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64105	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the first report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and spending in 2009, with me having to say right away that it should also be added here in part of 2010, because in this report that we have received on the exercise of the right to free legal aid, here's to put it simplisticly, it has now been a little mixed up and what was done in the first quarter of this year, so it may have been a little harder to follow, in fact, what was clean in the last year, and what was this year, and whether some shifts were made. I would like to remind us all together of the debate in 2008 when we were passing and having two readings of this bill. In this law, the legal assistance system, the Republic of Croatia, has been brought in line with and aligned with the acquis of the European Union, as well as with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights with regard to the application of Article 6 of the Convention prohibiting discrimination on any, or on the basis of material opportunities, as regards guaranteed rights such as the right to access to court, and the right to a fair trial. I think it is good to remind ourselves that we were having quite a lively debate at that time, not only here in Parliament, but I would say that this debate was both very lively and outside Parliament, at different round tables, seminars, they were involved in the adoption of this law in this debate and experts from different areas, especially the non-governmental sector, so civil society that were very interested in the adoption of this law. It was then warned when the bill came out, then it was warned of a series of shortcomings, and it warned that the observed shortcomings would in fact in one part prevent the application of the law itself. Applying the one in which he should therefore be fulfilled in a way that all those who, because of their material opportunities cannot, have no access to the court and to the trial, so that they are allowed through this law to exercise their right, and I would say so in a simpler and faster way. The application of the law has shown itself, and what is positive by the ministry is that this report is written anyway, and that is why I would say that we were actually right, all of us who warned that this law would not be able to have its full application. It began, in fact, as regards the 1st of April 2009, here is now about a year and a half, it will be interesting to see what was going on in this year 2010 since, according to the report somewhere in the first quarter of this year, there has also been changes in forms that have to be fulfilled in order to get a guide to achieve free legal aid. So you remember, we were then warning that it was a huge administration, a huge bureaucratism in the process of accessing the right to free legal aid. According to our assessment, these patterns are still complicated, and they still have things that shouldn't be in there, but then we'll see how that, how it's going to affect and the number of requests that are being made for free legal aid. In fact, there is one piece of information somewhere, when we passed the Law on the Right to Free Legal Assistance, there was also one fact that in 2007 alone, over 70,000 citizens were in a position to seek legal aid, in terms of free legal aid, so a huge number of our citizens who were not in a material situation to pay lawyers and so on to approach the court and exercise their right, but when we look at how much demands were made to the offices of the state administration in 2009, or how many were approved, then we see that there is essentially a huge disproportionateity. I went to look at the Ministry of Justice page to see how the situation is going around this year, and how many requests are coming, the only thing I would ask for clarification, is not clear to me there is one fact that from the 16th 10th of this year a total of 6 thousand 299 requests have been received, of which 4 thousand 421, were accepted, but I would ask for an explanation of whether that is all, refers to the total number of requests since the application of this law started or only this year. I think it would be a good idea to separate by year, or by quarter, as you will, because I think it can be followed better that way. And today, when you look at the analyses that have been made, by primarily civil associations, you see that there are actually still, and there are still the same remarks that we had when we passed this law, and so on behalf of the SDP club, I'm actually calling on the government to consider and see if the time has come, regardless of what someone is going to say for a year and a half, but whether the time has come to go into a serious reconstruction of this law. Namely, and when and with the report, here is the Commission on the 2009 progress of the Republic of Croatia, the same has been warned of the difficulties in applying this law because it is said that the complexity of the procedure, the low legal fees compared to their usual tariffs, significant reductions in the legal assistance budget are not a guarantee of proper access to justice. The effective implementation of free legal aid is also threatened by the unequal territorial distribution of NGOs providing legal assistance. When we talk about the funds provided for in the state budget for the exercise of this right, then it should be remembered that when we passed this law, it was said in the second reading that 18 million kunas would be allocated in 2009 for the implementation of this law. Finally, for 2009, an estimated amount of 8 million and a little less than 250,000 kuna, but after all the budget rebalances we had then reduced that amount to only 2 million and 500 thousand kuna, and I looked at the budget for the following year, so for now, if there is no rebalancing there is 4 million kuna. Which seems to me to be far less than the original, far away, far less than originally planned. When you see how much the funds allocated to the associations in the last year have been spent. They were allocated slightly more than 2 million kunas, but unfortunately the associations themselves used only a little more than 15% of these funds and the rest had to return to the budget, although not all associations did, but it is certainly related to the part relating to which kind of assistance is most sought, and these are exactly where lawyers are those who can represent the court. Something in law enforcement, something in informing citizens, in education that there is this law and that there is this possibility is clearly not working properly. I call on the ministry on behalf of the SDP club, so that the law itself can be reconsidered, to see if it is possible, and we are sure that it is because we should just look at all the good proposals and remarks that were made in 2008, I will especially stress, from the professional public, and then from the civil sector, that this law becomes a real law available to those to whom it is intended, which is to citizens who are on difficult material opportunities and who cannot afford to pay someone who will represent them in court. And what I think, and it would really beg for next year, if it really were then the 2010 report. I repeat again, in this report you mixed up in 2009 so you put in part of 2010. It is clear to us that this is because, on the one hand, the pattern changed in 2010; on the other hand, the value of the point for the legal services increased slightly more, but we believe that this is wrong and that you should have given a report concerning and exclusively in 2009. I repeat, unless, in our opinion, it is really serious to consider whether this law even brings about the effects it should have on citizens who have high expectations of it, we would not want that law to ultimately remain something that was largely debated, all of which had great expectations, and in the end they were either disappointed or interrupted. On the one hand, lawyers, for example. who represent citizens, and on the other hand citizens themselves, which is our primary goal in their inability to access the right to free legal assistance. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64106	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ana Lovrin on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64107	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here I would say that today, unlike the many reports discussed here in the Parliament, which we are discussing from year to year, which is good because then we can track through them the success of the implementation and achievement of the purpose of the laws adopted, this report on the implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance is the first time before us because the law applies to recipients of legal aid since 1.01.2009, i.e. for users since 1 April 2009. So, for the first time, we are considering the results of the application of this law and we are assessing whether it has achieved the desired goal in this one-year application. It is no doubt that the adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance is a contribution to the Croatian legal system as one of the measures to strengthen the availability of the judiciary and the authorities of the state administration when the right is exercised in the administrative procedure of all under equal conditions. The adoption of this law is also in line with the acquis of the EU and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights with regard to the ban, i.e. to prevent discrimination on grounds of material opportunities in accordance with the Convention on Guaranteed Rights, such as access to court and the right to a fair trial. The report which we are discussing today covers one segment of legal aid provided except for this Law on Free Legal Assistance, is also governed by the procedural laws, hence the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure and, under certain conditions, the Law on Lawyership, which provides for the exemption from the payment of court fees or the granting of defenders under official duty or the obligation of a lawyer to provide free legal assistance. In order to be able to judge the objective of this Act, it is necessary to recall the definitions of free legal assistance under this Act which says that free legal assistance is a means of facilitating access to the Court and to other authorities that decide on the rights and obligations of Croatian citizens and foreigners in a way that costs are partly or fully borne by the Republic of Croatia, taking into account their material position and circumstances so that they cannot exercise this right without jeopardising their abstention or abstention of members of the household. Since the budgetary resources of neither country nor ours are sufficient to provide free justice for all, it is reasonable to introduce the property censorship of the beneficiary of the right as well as to limit the free legal aid to the procedures in which existential issues are dealt with, for example, by law but to allow the court to decide on the right to free legal assistance and in other legal cases when it decides that the reasons for justice are. The report states, and we heard this in the previous debate that there is a lot of criticism of property censorship in the public, which can be discussed but should be said that this property censorship is in line with other restrictions on the exercise of rights in the areas of social care in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, I would like to commend the Ministry of Justice here because it has taken action to level the application of the Law, in particular with regard to the setting of property censorship across all counties, and also in practice the principle of justice is applied in order to meet the purpose and purpose of the law on free legal assistance by estimating any specific situation by applying the norm in a meaningful way within the meaning of the law. Furthermore, since it is the law for which it is to fulfil certain conditions, it is clear that it is necessary to establish the procedure and the bodies to implement it. The law introduces a system of instructions that determine, i.e. give the right and I was the user of how and where they will use it whether or not an authorised association or a lawyer of their choice. I must say that this report shows in a systematic manner the state of the system of free legal aid, so it states the legal framework, states the institutional framework through 20 state administration offices and 13 outposts, through the Ministry of Justice which decides in the 2nd degree, through the Commission established as an advisory body at the Ministry of Justice which decides on the allocation of funds and on the approval of projects that report associations. The activities of the Ministry run by administrative supervision and were carried out in two cases during this year, which is the second-degree resolution body by appeal in the event of a denied application for free legal aid, run by the register of authorised associations. So we see from this report, the Justice Department has conducted a campaign to inform citizens through a series of press conferences, specialized radio and TV shows. Education was conducted for officials in the Offices of State Administration, for officials at the Ministry of Justice, communication with associations was conducted and the Round Table was organised in October 2009 as part of the European Day of Civil Justice on this particular subject. In this Report, quality statistics on the number of applications submitted and approved, on the number and type of legal aid provided, on providers and users of free legal assistance, and on the financial part of the cost structure and on the way free legal aid providers are financed. I would also like to say here that the application for free legal assistance is extremely well introduced. Therefore, an information system that allows for the situation of applications submitted at all times, in the number of denied, approved and rejected applications in the number of instructions issued, to account for these and paid funds of free legal aid, all according to territorial indicators by county. And what we can read from these statistical numbers. From 1 February 2009 to 1 March 2010, 4545 requests were received from which 3182 were accepted. That 78 thousand kuna was charged, and a million 278 thousand 319 kuna was charged, so these are the amounts covered by the instructions but have not yet been realised and charged. As far as we can tell. We note that this information is very far deviating from the numbers that have been mentioned and which have been processed in the adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance and this particular part of civil society which has been said that this Law will in no way be able to meet all needs and these amounts to all the needs of free legal assistance, because at that time the number of 70,000 cases of legal assistance provided in associations and cases provided through the Croatian Bar Association, approximately 400. When we read today's exact indicators of the number of requests submitted by 4000 500 and something, so if they were all accepted in relation to associations then it would turn out that these demands were about 1,000 and not 70 thousand as they were said. Of course, at that time it was spoken on a flat-rate basis and now these are exact indicators of the exact name and last name of each applicant for the right to free legal aid. I would like to say here that this is probably the result that associations in their statements of the number of aids they provided probably included in that part all psycho-social aids and other various aids that they provided to citizens but that per definition does not enter the right to free legal aid which ensures a smooth access to the court under equal conditions. Therefore, before the association, they receive money from the budget and receive money from the budget from the projects in the free legal assistance system in order to enable them to receive it in advance, but they could not justify the money provided. If we observe these indicators broken down by county we notice the imbalance in the number of applications submitted, in the number of approved requests, the type of service provider, the amount of funds paid and these indicators are an excellent basis for further analysis at the Ministry of Justice on the causes of inequality. And I think that it may be too fast to conclude that a logical number of requirements in a particular area is a lower life of citizens, it would be an excellent data that could provide the ministry, which is to establish the number of submitted and approved applications according to the number of residents, so by the number of inhabitants, and that would give the right picture, and then there is the possibility of an analysis of these data, possibly according to the distribution of the service provider, according to the general state of the application for legal protection in the administrative and judicial proceedings in the area and the county, and then we would get the right picture of whether there is indeed no need for that assistance or if citizens are uninformed or are not available to them. What we only notice by county is that it is even, and these are the types of cases for which free legal aid is sought and that is almost 50% of the cases are family legal proceedings, followed by ownership and enforcement procedures. Compared to legal aid providers, union and legal clinic lawyers provide primary and secondary legal assistance, so the one in front of the court, and these other providers only primary. We note that about 80% of the demands apply to lawyers, namely 75.8 and 24.2% to everything else. This, of course, has its logical reasons, precisely because the most requests for free legal assistance are for citizens precisely to resolve their disputes in court proceedings, for which legal aid is authorised only to be provided by lawyers. As far as other providers are concerned, it is currently registered at the Ministry of Justice 30 associations, one union and two legal clinics of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb and Split. In relation to financial indicators, it is interesting, and we have already talked about this, that reports and approved projects to associations and clinics are granted an amount of 2 million kuna. This amount has been returned to the state budget or is expected to return about a thousand 600, almost a million and 700 thousand kuna, which means that associations have managed to spend about 330 thousand kuna in this system, which really requires a detailed analysis. As far as the lawyer is concerned, the number of requests and amounts are in that section as they were and previous years the data showed. Finally, the adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Follow-up Regulations is indeed one contribution to the Croatian legal system, and this report shows that further improvements are possible in the system of its application. It shows that the number of requests for free legal aid is much smaller than those presented in association data compared to that followed by exact indicators. With the praise of the Ministry of Justice and the Offices of the State Administration for simplifying the procedure of the forms during the application of the law, since the insured appropriations are not completely spent, I think there is room to review the provisions on property censorship or to increase the value of the points, in order for the service providers to reach 70% of the legal tariff according to the proposal of the Ministry of Justice, so that users of the right to free legal assistance would have indeed and appropriate legal assistance to the full engagement of providers. Finally, the HDZ Club supports this report. We look forward to it with impatience and the next report and encourages that in 2010, however, there are already numbers of requests and that it should continue to work on informing citizens that they have the right to free legal assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64108	Thank you. Mr. Stanko Grcic on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64109	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The law on free legal aid applies to citizens over the last year. Its entry into force, together with other sublaws in the Republic of Croatia, for the first time established a system that allows all citizens, regardless of their property, to access justice equally. As it is a whole new system of problems when establishing and realising for us at the HSS club were expected. We point to the main problem that arises, which is the dissatisfaction of legal aid providers, i.e. lawyers and associations with symbolic compensation that they provide for these services. In order to at least improve the position of the provider, the value of the point on which the fee mentioned in 2010 is calculated was raised to three kunas. However, given that the said amount remains far below the regular legal tariff, the ministry's view is that the same should be increased. Furthermore, public administration offices and associations initially pointed to a complicated form of requests that the legal ignorant parties should meet in order to initiate a free legal aid approval procedure. Following the above comments, the Ministry simplified the application form and reduced its scope almost double, and deleted the items which were in practice unnecessarily necessary. However, if, in practice, more than a certain amount of unnecessary data is shown, I believe that this form can be further simplified. In order to further improve the system, the Ministry shall continue to invest in the education of all the factors involved in this process, in particular civil servants in the business of granting requests to citizens for the use of free legal assistance from lawyers, authorised civil society associations, as well as representatives of the judicial authority. It is also good to say a few sentences about the law on free legal aid that entered into force on 8 June 2009. It started on February 1st, 2009. In order to round up the legislative framework, free legal aid has been adopted in addition to that law and several regulations and regulations which clearly allow better and more efficient implementation. The institutional framework of the system of free legal assistance organised in such a way that civil servants in the 20 offices of the state administration in the counties and in 13 exposures decide on the requirements for granting free legal assistance in the first instance while in all other facilities it is possible to submit a request to be forwarded to the office in the centre of the county. In the city of Zagreb, the tasks of accepting citizens' demands and decision-making are carried out in the first degree by one district office of the city's administration. The competent office for the submission of applications and the office in which the applicant has residence or residence shall be submitted in a prescribed form to which the written statement of the applicant and the members of his household concerning the authorisation of the inspection of all property and income data is attached, as well as a declaration to which the applicant corresponds materially and criminally for the accuracy of such data. The Office of the State shall, on the basis of the information and request, issue a manual authorising the use of free legal assistance or a solution which shall be rejected. The applicant may also appeal to the Ministry of Justice against the Office's solution to refuse the application, and an administrative dispute may also be initiated against the Ministry of Justice's solution. We also have the Committee for Legal Assistance, which is the advisory body of the Ministry of Justice established by the Law, which is composed of representatives of the Ministry, associations, trade unions, academic community and the Croatian Bar Association. According to the law, the commission's tasks are related to the monitoring and analysis of the situation in the approval and use of legal aid, to giving opinions on projects, and to giving proposals and opinions to the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary for the purpose of improving the legal assistance system. From the date of application of the law in relation to the citizens, i.e. From 1 February 2009 to 1 March 2010, a total of 4545 applications for free legal aid were received throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia and 3182 requests were accepted, while 1001 requests were rejected. They were rejected in 186, and 152 were suspended while remaining in the approval process. In addition, a total of 2191 instructions were issued during the observed period. The law also prescribes types of legal aid. Legal assistance is achieved as we know as primary and secondary. The primary legal assistance shall include general legal information, legal advice, legal assistance in drawing up letters to administration authorities and legal persons with public authority, representation in administrative matters, legal assistance in the peaceful non-judicial settlement of disputes, representation before the European Court of Human Rights and international organisations. While secondary law includes representation before the court, legal aid for the peaceful settlement of court disputes and the assembly of letters in court proceedings. As regards the type of procedure that is approved by legal aid, we see that it concerns, above all, existential issues in terms of the law, which are particularly status issues of the rights and social care systems, the rights and systems of pension, disability insurance and other forms of assistance. In the legal aid approval procedure, it is necessary to establish primarily the application of Article 2 in relation to Article 8 of the material situation or the property situation of the applicant, where these criteria are satisfied to access the determination of the existential importance of the legal matter for which legal aid is sought within the meaning of Articles 5(1) and 2 of this Act. It should also be noted that the criteria set out in Article 8 of the Law which can be taken as auxiliary criteria for the application of Article 2 of the Law if the condition laid down in Articles 2 and 8 is not satisfied with the need to further assess whether the specific situation is an existential issue for the party. The users of legal aid according to nationality in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of the Law are beneficiaries of legal aid which can also be party to temporary or permanent stay in addition to Croatian citizens, asylum seekers, foreigners under subsidiary and party under temporary protection who cannot bear the costs of legal assistance without the danger of existential threat. And as for the legal aid provider, we know that these are lawyers, associations, trade unions, legal clinics, which define the forms of legal assistance that one of these entities can provide. Lawyers provide primary and secondary legal assistance. The lawyer shall not refuse to provide legal assistance except in cases provided for by the Law on Attorneyship for the short period of legal aid. Several sentences and statistical indicators show that legal aid in 75 cases was provided by lawyers while associations provided legal assistance in 24% of cases. This difference in the ratio of the legal aid provider is not surprising, given that the above data show that the use of the same is more frequently approved in the secondary than for primary legal aid. And a few sentences about funding. Funding for the costs of the organisation of the system of free legal assistance, costs according to the instructions shall be provided in the state budget. In addition, local and regional self-government, donations and other sources can be provided in accordance with the law. From 22 legal aid to 50% is granted on the basis of competitions with associations and higher universities for the work of legal clinics, and 50 is provided for other forms of legal assistance. The approval of legal aid concerns the full or partial provision of payment of the costs of legal aid, depending on the property situation of the applicant. In particular, it is provided for the possibility that the beneficiary of legal aid, depending on his or her material opportunities, participates in the costs of the procedure in a given procedure. Administrative oversight of law enforcement is carried out by the Ministry of Justice. In carrying out administrative supervision, the Ministry of Justice shall in particular oversee the conduct of the office in the approval of legal assistance. The supervision of the conscious and professional provision of legal assistance shall be carried out in accordance with the official duty of the body before which the party is to exercise the right to legal assistance. Exceptionally, the supervision of the work of the associations shall be carried out directly and shall be carried out by the Ministry of Justice responsible for the affairs of the judiciary which, at least once every two years, will supervise the provision of legal assistance by the associations. Where the body before which the proceedings are conducted finds that legal aid has been granted unwittingly or unprofessionally, it will draw up a note in the file and will warn of the circumstances of the legal aid provider to the beneficiary of the legal aid to the authority which issued the instruction and the Ministry of Justice's affairs. We believe in the HSS Club that here is the law that brings some good effects and that, over a certain period of time, these effects will be even greater in a positive way. And we believe that the report is transparent and content-solving the task set and therefore the Croatian Peasant Party Club supports this Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64110	Thank you. It is on behalf of the HNS club, HSU's distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64111	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pension Party will support this Report. In 2008, we all supported the adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. It is a matter of colleagues and colleagues of one common democratic standard in all regulated countries, and we all know that, under Chapter 23, it was also necessary to bring our legal legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, and that is what has been done. However, it is not all about harmonisation of laws. It's even more important to enforce the laws. There are clearly colleagues who spoke before me who warned of a series of shortcomings related to the implementation of this law. However, we must be correct and say this is the first year of implementation of this law and we expected that there would be difficulties. And the most important thing is to respond to these difficulties in a way that tries to remove them as soon as possible. After we passed the law, four sublaws were passed. This is a tariff Regulation establishing the value of the compensation for the provision of primary and secondary legal assistance. This is the Regulation on the criteria for the evaluation of the project of authorised legal aid providers. This is the Regulation on the form of an application for the authorisation of the use of free legal aid and this is the Regulation on how to keep a register of organisations authorised to provide free legal assistance. We are even more pleased that some of these sublaws have been amended today. You responded quickly to the observed deficiencies. A tariff regulation has also been corrected, the pattern Regulation has been corrected. I must say that one of my citizens is in Rijeka, and I must proudly say that citizens of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County are very often using the Institute of Free Legal Assistance, which means that they have recognised this possibility and that those citizens who are weaker in property can be before and should be in front of the law and administrative procedures in the same position as all other citizens. That citizen came to me and said, you know, I tried to fill out a free legal aid form. He's so complex that I'd have to finish law first, and if I had law school then I probably wouldn't need other people's legal help. That's what he said in a joke. But it is good that there has been a rapid, spot-like reaction and from the assembly we need to make it clear to the citizens that they are absolutely using this possibility, to be used to do so. I am very pleased that here at the Ministry of Justice are all the opinions that should continue to work on the education of all the officials involved in this system. This is certainly necessary because the observations from the field are significant and certainly need to be removed as soon as possible. What I'd like to underline is to react to something the secretary of state said, but not in a critical sense, you'll see. The most common legal aid was approved for family legal proceedings, each other. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The victims of the family settlement were granted legal aid in 174 proceedings, i.e. slightly more than 5% of cases. The secretary of state said unfortunately. However, we are pleased that people are courageously determined to report domestic violence, to settle disputes in court, rather than to remain silent, silent, and clearly delay the resolution of these situations leading to domestic violence. It is therefore commendable that citizens are increasingly opting to seek legal aid in such cases. We are very pleased that our Committee on Gender Equality, as well as the Committee on Human Rights, have estimated that it is likely to change the tariff again, the legal tariff, that it should probably be brought closer to that real tariff that lawyers normally have. What we have also registered is the fact that probably the number of citizens who need free legal aid is far, far greater than the one registered in this report, which means that the citizens' information campaign should continue. We should continue, we should invite citizens, we should inform them of the possibilities provided by the Law on Free Legal Assistance. And I hope that every year citizens will increasingly use the opportunity at their disposal. Furthermore, I would like to underline their objection to the Human Rights Committee. They requested that certain data in the future report relating to persons with disabilities be particularly highlighted, given the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I think that's a good idea. I think that everyone, and especially the officials in this sector, must be educated in order to be more effective and correct towards these citizens especially when creating assisted decision-making teams. Here would be our comments, our suggestions. We repeat we will support this report. We hope that the shortcomings we have seen in the first year of the application of this law will be quickly removed and that we will all get very close together to the standards we see and how these laws work in regulated countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64112	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDSS Club, the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. On behalf of the SDSS, I will refer to this report on the exercise of the right to legal aid on the spending of funds in 2009. For us, in principle, this report is correct and acceptable, and everything I say in a later explanation of this is not for some extreme criticism, but for the purpose of telling some of our knowledge from the field to improve the implementation and quality of this law in a technical, operational sense, and as Mr. Secretary of State said the very chalk of this law. The law on free legal aid is a good basis for us and a good contribution to strengthening Croatia's judicial system to raise its level in line with the level that our future European integration requires. He's by us and a good substitution at this point for the former so-called. office days, which were an extremely good practice for those who dealt with the judiciary, know what it means to an ordinary man an office day. Now, after a year of application of this law, we can conclude that it is a perfectly correct assessment of the secretary of state that it is a two-way road and that I quite like that definition and I think we all have to work together. In this context, I will also make some suggestions that we, according to some of our findings, have seen on the ground in law enforcement, i.e. the very process of providing free legal assistance. The first lack of information on the existence, content and possibilities that the law provides is the first fact that we would point out here. They would say that the truth, or fact, is that the Ministry of Justice on the Internet has made fully available information on the system of providing free legal assistance, all in order to inform citizens, but our experience suggests that a large number of potential users of free legal aid are not informed of the existence of the law on free legal aid itself and the possibilities provided by this law. This is what we are talking about in particular about those sensitive social groups called the category of returnees, refugees, exiles, especially in the areas of PPDS, but also outside the area of special state care, which are socially and economically excluded from some social flows. The fact is that even citizens of weaker property are not able to use that Internet information today because of the real and objective conditions of their lives, and they are not even fully informed about the existence of this law and, of course, it is logical that they are also denied the ability to consume all of what this law is carrying. The second thing we point to is the problem of insufficient availability of requests to approve the use of free legal aid in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. Although it is Article 18. The law on free legal aid requires that information on the possibilities and conditions of the use of legal aid, as well as the forms of requests be made available to the parties by the first-degree judicial authorities, the first-degree administrative authorities and the first-degree legal person with public powers, is not always the case in practice. I say again our experiences say that potential users of free legal aid coming from smaller places in the PPDS areas, which are not territorially covered by the offices of the state administration, but by the offices of the office of free legal aid, can only raise requests for free legal assistance in these offices. It is not a rare case that competent authorities in the PPDS area who, by law, are required to provide information to citizens and make available requests for the use of free legal aid are not familiar with their legal obligation, and direct users from one to the other bodies and offices, and thus, to vulgarise things, walk from the counter to the counter. It has been promised that a sufficient number of applications for the authorisation of the use of free legal aid will be delivered to legal aid providers, so associations, clients, lawyers, etc., this is still not respected. Associations print their own requests for free legal aid for users today. The third thing is a form for approving the use of free legal aid, is, according to our assessment, demanding and complicated, so most users are not able to fill it out on their own. Despite amendments to the requirements for the authorisation of the use of free legal aid, which has undergone cosmetic changes, and from 9 pages is reduced to 7 and then finally to 4 pages, the request form is still complicated, complex and quite incomprehensible for users. According to statements by the parties in filling out the form of requests for the use of free legal assistance to state administration offices, the aid of civil servants was lost. That's something I've pointed out in particular now, because I think this is a technical question that may have some disadvantages, but this human factor that we want to achieve in this thing shouldn't be flawed. The fourth thing I point out is high and restrictively prescribed conditions for the approval of free legal aid, which are not in line at this time with the economic and social situation in which potential users of free legal aid live. What am I trying to say here? The criteria under which legal aid is granted have been laid down extremely restrictively, it is impossible to exercise the right to free legal assistance to citizens who own a house which is considered a satisfactory housing within the meaning of the law, means 35 squares for the applicant, and an additional 10 squares for each household member. There are several examples in practice where the competent authorities of the state administration reject citizens' requests for legal aid without applicants having any income at all, or their incomes are small, i.e. existentially insufficient, but therefore own a house or apartment. Thus, the fact of ownership of such a satisfying living space has disqualified many citizens as recipients and users of such services. The next thing is the problem of the narrow circle and the scope of action. The registration of civil society associations, registered to civil society associations as legal aid providers, is based on our assessment of the narrow circle and scope of action, and are denied the possibility of providing individual forms of secondary legal assistance. First of all, it is meant to settle disputes peacefully, to draw up letters in court proceedings, administrative lawsuits, constitutional lawsuits in administrative disputes, etc. Therefore, civil society organisations have the necessary capacities for us, have education and have knowledge, have the skills and experience in providing such a type of assistance, at the end of 15 years in continuity, and there is a need for this type of assistance because of the territorial coverage of the providers of free legal assistance to specific areas of PPDS, therefore the areas of special state care, are without law offices in frequent cases and therefore we need to expand the area of operation of the associations precisely in order to ensure that the area where the law offices are missing is in some way covered by registered associations services. In addition to this problem, we also mention the unresolved issue of filling out requests for free legal aid, approving the use of free legal aid for the composition of an appeal, writing an administrative service in cases of a negatively resolved application for approval of the use of free legal aid, which all worked very well and very well so far for that registered association. And the last thing I'd say is the problem of unequal practice of the Office of State Administration. The process of collecting the necessary documentation that precedes the approval of free legal aid is, in our opinion, long-term, demanding time and costs for the applicant himself. It cannot be ignored that, in most cases, users who do not have in principle knowledge where certain documents to be used for free legal aid can be obtained. Therefore, instead of asking the authorities to do so by official means, some of the offices require applicants to submit additional documents, so to confirm, beliefs, etc., regardless of which such obligations are prescribed only in exceptional cases and tax. So I point out this thing because here again comes a fact called a lack of understanding, or a human factor. And in the end, we think that these suggestions were going towards a good law like this, a very important law for a socially endangered group, so some kind of marginalized social groups, such a good law should be improved by removing these shortcomings, and then it would be one whole that would fully regulate this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64114	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Horvat said incorrectly that the lack of availability of a request for free legal aid, and this results from the reports, results in that the requirements for free legal assistance in 20 county offices and 13 offices are also available in all courts, and he stated that in particular in areas of special state care. And here I read from this report something that is really strange because I participated when the Serbian Democratic Forum sought and insisted on obtaining funds and to join the Associations for Legal Assistance Providers and now I see that it has been approved by the 112 thousand kuna and the Joint Council of the University of Vukovar 86 thousand kuna, and according to this report, 0 kuna has been spent, i.e. no legal assistance at all, and the Serbian Democratic Forum has been talking about this problem in the area of Kordun, Bani where there are no law offices, no associations, and that they and I believe that they should be the ones to inform the citizens, and to provide them with assistance within the framework of the approved funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64116	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate and is the first respected representative of Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So there is no dilemma that we have managed to establish an extremely important system that allows citizens to access justice and justice regardless of their property situation. This, of course, ensures the achievement and constitutional right to equality before the law. This is formally, it is a theoretically one very important and major step in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, but it should also be said that the expectations of this law were high and that the results were not exactly in line with these expectations. Of course, it should be fair and say that it was logical to expect difficulties in realization and that it was logical to expect problems resulting from the fact that the system should be stalked. And indeed, the one-year application of this law has shown all of its disadvantages to be addressed from which it is crucial, I would say that free legal aid is difficult to achieve exactly what it seems to be intended for, so poor citizens. On a roundtable organised by the ministry last October, and on the subject of Experience in the application of the law of free legal assistance, a representative of the European Commission delegation to the Republic of Croatia said about 3 key things. First, that the form should be simplified, that the amount of compensation should be increased for legal aid providers and that the resources of the state budget intended for the implementation of this law should finally be increased. These problems were identified by the profession as well as by all those dealing with this problem, including civil society. Finally, similar shortcomings were identified and warned in the 2009 Progress Report submitted by the European Commission. It should be commended by the Ministry of Justice to assess and analyse all the results achieved 9 months after the law has been applied, to identify issues to be addressed in order to further strengthen and improve the system of free legal assistance. Then the ministry, after that round table and meeting the profession, seemed to me two things. First, it really simplified the pattern, reduced its scope, some of the items that proved unnecessary were abolished. And secondly, the value of the point has been increased. But I don't think that's enough. I think the experience now for over two years shows that more efforts need to be made to make free legal aid truly available to those for whom it is intended. One major problem stems from the fact that free legal aid has so far managed to get too few citizens. Only 5552 requests were received from the beginning of 2009 to April 2010. 68% of which were granted. On the other hand, according to NGOs and the Croatian bar of law in the years prior to the adoption of the Law, tens of thousands of citizens sought some form of free legal assistance every year. So, if the average income data are taken into account, the number of poor, the number of people who are practically a social case in the Republic of Croatia, then it is difficult to believe that free legal aid has been sought by only 5,000 citizens. What's the reason? Well, it's probably a reason there's a few. One I believe in may be that the public is not yet sufficiently informed and directed to the rights that this Law allows them. Therefore, more should be done to provide additional and systematic information to citizens and citizens. Secondly, I also believe that it is a big problem, many have said about it, it is a complicated procedure to approve free legal aid. Therefore, the bad side is certainly the complexity and complexity of the form for the approval of free legal assistance. The applicants or citizens are mostly laymen in the knowledge of the law, the requirements are very often incorrect, incompletely filled, returned to the applicant, and, of course, they are very much extending the time until the final solution is issued. Therefore, in order to fill out the forms very often they need help, but it is not provided by officials of the state administration's office but neither are those from NGOs registered to provide free legal assistance. I don't think that's good, I think there's something that needs to be changed and done. The practice so far has also shown that the criteria for the exercise of the right to free legal power and which are particularly an integral part of the pattern are too strict and complicated and something that I have received on several sides sounds about like this: it is necessary to clarify the criterion of the existential issue, and either leave it or replace it with a clear explicit and tax-based indication of certain categories of cases for which exceptional legal aid will not be granted despite the fulfilment of other conditions. It is also necessary to review the criteria for the authorisation of the use of free legal aid, in particular in relation to the prescribed criterion, by satisfying the living space. Thus, the Law says that those who own a property that is considered a satisfactory living space, which is an apartment and a house of 35 square meters, so they do not have the right to free legal aid. So, what would that mean? YES, a person living in an apartment of 38 square meters, which belongs to the category of poor people, should sell that apartment, become a homeless person to have the right to free legal assistance, that is absurd, and I really urge you to consider that criterion. Sobol, on behalf of the Club, spoke very comprehensively about what happened to the funds from the state budget, and I also don't think that's right, we fell from 18 million to 6800 in order to reduce those funds by 48% in one rebalancing year. I mean, it makes sense that you're reducing them because you don't use them, why they don't take advantage of the funds, and there's so many needed ones. It's one non-respect, one illogicality that needs to be worked on and what absolutely needs to be changed. As for the tariff, well one step has been made to increase the tariff, but nowhere we say it's 50% of the usual legal tariff because people complain that lawyers refuse them, lawyers won't tell me we won't represent you because we don't benefit from it, of course they'll apologize for some other reasons they don't have time, they don't know how to solve it, etc., but the fact is that lawyers are reluctant to accept these cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64118	We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Jerkovic said that according to association and lawyer data when discussing the Law that thousands and thousands of requests for free legal aid were being discussed. That is not true, because in the light of the law being passed then there was a speech according to the association's data 70,000 cases of legal aid provided, and according to the Croatian Bar of Law, an annual assessment of about 400 cases. By reading the exact indicators based on the information application to the numbers surrounding the lawyers, this remains approximately the number according to this report 461 cases, and compared to the associations 156. In addition to all possible shortcomings in informing citizens, I argue that the data of associations, which were handled by associations when the Law was adopted, were lumpy and were included in all types of psycho-social talks, instructions, etc. under legal free aid, which is not the point and... of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64120	Thank you very much. And a replica of the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Jerkovic, I'm glad you recognized the value of this law as much as I agree with one of your findings and observation that it might be necessary to find some kind of good model for our citizens to use this law even more. The report shows that the most frequently approved legal aid in family legal protection procedures is 49%, followed by procedures on ownership rights and enforcement procedures. Personally, I think that the means of information could help us with even greater campaigns by respecting legislation and the whole range of laws that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has passed as well as the marking of important dates related to the promotion of human rights, the improvement of the situation of victims of domestic violence and all that is carried out through the resolution bodies in such actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64122	Thank you. And a reply to the replica by the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64123	My colleague Klaric did not admit that this system was well designed and that he did not recognise that a large number of needy for free legal assistance, that he did not admit that big steps were made. But we can also say it needs to be better and all it takes is a little effort. It would not be good for the law to in some way become its own purpose or to be right about those who say that we have passed the law because of Brussels and because of EU accession, that some way is more formality than it does have effect. The indicators in the budget are not good, they are a bit worrying because they speak about how indirect the system is, they talk about how the system has functioned, or how it does not function to the extent that we want it to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64124	Thank you. It is up to the individual debate of the distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64125	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to discuss this report with only one approach, to answer the question of how much legal protection is available to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to court or to others in administrative proceedings? Rich people can always provide the ultimate legal assistance, protection, advice and guidance through procedures. This law and this Institute of Free Legal Assistance have been introduced for the part of citizens who do not have the money to protect some of their rights, so to whom judicial or legal protection is not available in the administrative procedure. Either because of ignorance or disagreement or simply because they do not have the money to pay for the overpriced services offered in Croatia on the market. So it is our job to start implementing the law, regularly monitoring its execution to consider the situation of the needy coming to free legal protection. As in all countries, and in Croatia, the legislative authority most often on the proposal of the executive, first the system is complicated to the unconscious, and then we must help the citizens to cope with this complicated system. So, for example. One of the points of legal uncertainty where certain rights are often denied to citizens is too many amendments and additions to the laws we adopt in the Assembly. There are some laws, such as the Peace Law, which applies, applies or regulates the rights of 2.5 million citizens who have 14 amendments and additions I think it would be extremely good for the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament, but also the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to consider the possibility of amending our Rules of Procedure, which would prohibit or allow a single law to have a maximum of two amendments and to supplement exclusively three if it comes to issues of national security, natural disasters and the implementation of internationally undertaken obligations, and after that, the proposings must come with new laws. I note this because both state administration bodies and public authorities serve in such situations the consolidated texts of the laws of unofficial versions and variants that appear on different web portals but in books, brochures, and are often quite incorrect, inaccurate and sloppyly drawn up. 4000 545 citizens who in the last year addressed the request for free legal aid are not realistic numbers needed. These are the ones who knew and heard about this institute, someone told them and tried to exercise that right. Now, I must admit I don't understand, a thousand and one request has been denied, and 186 rejected. The consequences are the same, the citizen didn't win. Now you see, I was deliberately quoting that we ourselves are complicating the difference between rejected and rejected. Why should the citizens know that? This is a formal legal bureaucratic term. They didn't get a thousand 187. It doesn't matter why. That's the consequence. However, the report also finds that by strictly applying the criteria set out in Article 8 they were not able to achieve this right in relation to a satisfactory living space. It is good that this report says so, since it shows that some of the criteria are described in the law of such a nature to be formally legally viewed correctly. However, when we apply that criterion to a living man, a man in trouble then we see that a man is in need, but some square is two, or three or ten housing is a limiting moment. If this is repeated more often, if such cases are sufficient, I think it would be good for the ministry to consider changing that provision or making it clearer or relaxing, so that 5 squares of the apartment no one can cut apart to meet that criterion is not an obstacle. So this is the first year of follow-up, so if that happens again and this year I expect you to propose a correction, in which direction I leave it to you. Another problem, and you, Mr. Secretary of State, mentioned in the introduction briefly, the complexity of access from patterns to all of this, and even some claimed that you needed legal help to get legal aid. The report does not say much about whether there have been any implementation changes during this year in facilitating access. It is important to point out that we encourage people. Those who have already tried and refused or who have heard that it's complicated to tell them we've loosed, we've simplified, now it's easier to come to. So, a positive message is sent to the public to encourage citizens, not to force them from trying to get to that right because one such negative information makes more damage than positive and then this positive campaign you have to keep telling people to finally sit down. And third and final, of course, that the value or money that the state pays to those who pay for that free legal aid is actually not free because the state pays for it, is free of charge for the service user, so at which the price pays, it is not just a matter of items in the budget and reports but also service quality. I want to believe that civil society organisations, different organisations and institutions are knowingly doing their part of the job, regardless of whether the fee and the money they receive is satisfactory or not, but I am quite reserved with lawyers who provide such services, and which compensation for this service is as miserable as it is said to be not formally accepted, but then this job goes beyond the will and serious approach. So I would therefore ask that in the report for this year, so in the next report you try to deal with precisely the domain quality of the service that citizens receive, not so many statistics submitted, rejected, rejected, etc. It's quality. Is there any objection from citizens to quality, therefore whether it can be monitored, reported and the need to see again whether in law or sublegal regulations there are any changes to raise, in addition to statistical figures, the level of quality of service that citizens receive in this way. Here are my suggestions, so if they're acceptable, I expect them in this year's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64126	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. It is up to the honourable representative Ivo Grbić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64127	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today, when we discuss the Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid, we are discussing the achievement of the constitutional principle of equality of all before the law. We know that the Law on Free Real Aid has been implemented since 1 February 2009 so that this matter is considered in the Croatian Parliament for the first time through the reports. The report provides a full overview of the system of free legal assistance that enables citizens of the weaker property to engage lawyers and help legal actions in order to achieve equal access to justice. The system is organised in a way that citizens apply for legal assistance to state administration offices in the county that are a first-degree body while complaints are being decided by the Ministry of Justice. The report shall systematically provide indicators of the number of applications received for each county, the way in which applications are resolved, the number of approved types of legal aid, the number of rejected, rejected and suspended applications. Statistics show that free legal aid in 80% of cases is approved as secondary legal aid and most often in court representation procedures, legal advice, writing assembly in court and administrative matters. In addition, the fact is that in 76% of cases legal aid is provided by lawyers. The report also covered problems in the legal assistance system as expected, given the fact that legal aid is yet to be established. One of the main remarks is the dissatisfaction of legal aid providers, lawyers and associations with the symbolic compensation they make, while other objections to legal aid forms have been removed in such a way that many items are deleted as unnecessary. It is important that the Ministry of Justice continue to educate all entities involved in the procedures for granting legal aid applications in cooperation with the administration offices. In view of the above, I am of the opinion that it is necessary to support the 2009 Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds, with the emphasis that all problems and system shortcomings should be addressed in a way that is to find the best solutions for the purpose of efficiency and achievement of the objectives for which the legal assistance system has been introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64128	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here is supporting the debate of colleagues and also supporting this report, I just wanted to say, to supplement this debate with the fact that it would be good for the next report, the secretary of state to please note this, that it would be good to see how much this person with disabilities has requested free legal assistance for the reasons that we know that people with disabilities are often users of this right, given that they are most often poor property. Disabilities organisations would be very pleased to see this report for reasons why several people with disabilities complained that they had failed to achieve free legal assistance. Of course, we've also checked that for a reason, and I'm happy to say here that it wasn't a problem that their free legal aid was not denied, but they were crossing those property censorships. So it would be good to see that information in the next report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64130	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, and it is up to the distinguished representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64131	Thank you very much. So I might try to open up one topic, say something about one thought that this report encouraged me to do, and that's actually what's in Croatia, here's a question for all of us to think about what's in Croatia the poverty threshold, which is the property censorship by which someone, in this particular case, is exercising the right to free legal aid. Is that the same censorship that someone is exercising on the right of the soup kitchen, the right to social assistance, the right to certain social benefits? And I think we're actually one of the few countries that doesn't have that story defined. Normally, it is defined year after year. It's actually very good to read out of this law. Obviously, one third of those who have submitted requests or have not understood whether they have the right to do so or have made some kind of formal error. But I'm going back to that property censorship. For me, it's a question of whether one who's jobless and has another average salary in the house, has two children, has a 30-square apartment and a 30-square garage has the right to legal aid. He may not have the right to any other social aid, but I believe he should have the right to free legal aid. In fact, maybe we should think, maybe we should even start from here to create a catalogue in Croatia so we know who these people are, with what kind of incomes, with what social status they have certain rights. In fact, it would be no problem to agree if it were agreed, to determine if it were to agree on criteria. But obviously, it is not only in this example, but also in a number of other examples I have no intention and does not really want to allow the poorest layers in Croatia to be able to exercise some rights. I don't want to believe that this law, I'm not going to talk about other things, just for his own sake, or that we brought it here to close some chapters, to meet certain conditions in the negotiation process, the accession process, in order to close another chapter. I want to believe that this law has been passed for our own sake. Because that those traditional, therefore free legal aid ways through the law offices, the decisions of the courts worked and that otherwise, this law should not work. And in that sense, I think with this law, we should actually open up a wider space. You see, if really one-third is rejected from this data that they're giving they're transparent and all but can't make one deeper analysis. In that sense, why did the rejection of these requirements occur? Because actually if we were to figure out why these rejections occurred then we could figure out if the legal framework in this form is good for you, so we're going to fix something with some kind of sublegal act or if it's not a good framework for us, so we're going to have to spread it too. And I think that's the key question. I believe you've all read the report on the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. Maybe the strongest sentence in that law seems to be in that law enforcement report like this. The right to free legal aid is very difficult to achieve and is difficult to access. Maybe we should do some cynicism now, maybe we should think about free legal aid for free legal aid. Therefore, the Ombudsman’s report itself says that access to legal assistance in Croatia is difficult. If that's the case, and obviously it is because we have so many rejections, but what I think is even worse, we have a relatively small number of demands. Now we can make sure here that we have misjudged 70,000, so that these are some kind of psycho and I don't know what kind of problems, that they're not really real problems, and I believe that you're reading to you so far, that you're reading black chronicles to actually see what's going on in Croatia. The only or one of the data that provides me with one relevant picture of this Report is the information of the territorial spread of the request. I assure you if you go to count by the population number somewhere you have deviations you'll actually get into a situation where where the poorest neighborhoods actually have the most demands there. Normally, you have to bring him to the population. So, I'd like to hear maybe if there's any more space. I'm not just talking about this pattern, I'm talking about the criteria to talk about. I believe that this is the first report, the first year, and that it might have been that way and it couldn't have been different actually because somewhere in the middle of the implementation of this program, we've gone to a different pattern. But I don't think changing patterns is enough. It's a matter of tariffs. I don't know how much she's going to try to represent me as well as get paid. I don't know if this guy's doing anything about resuscitating legal clinics. Because as far as I know they're only registered, they're not in office, but it's actually this professional space from which we could draw perhaps for the state budget the cheapest or that it's the least costing us, that it's the least cost of taxpayers realising free legal aid. Finally, it is in the interest of professors, students to work there on certain projects, or to work on specific subjects. But here, for a year and a half, two have passed and we haven't really solved underlaws or something else, I don't know by regulations what you're going to do or by new law registration of legal clinics. I think that in the next period, the criteria for allocating funds to associations must be territorial prevalence. We have one problem that our associations are concentrated in a narrow area, and as they are concentrated in a narrow area, be careful that someone has money I don't know whether from Vojnić or from where to pay for the trip to Zagreb, or if I should take another route, then I probably shouldn't have any legal help, so if you want advice. So my proposal to look at what else is to solve in the framework of the existing legal framework by further improving sublegal acts, so that after that we actually see that we are expanding this framework, because I think it is very important, that it is very important that we make this system simpler. He's still quite complicated to me, he needs to be transparent, and please, I don't think there's any major education required here. Maybe it's necessary that in every one of them I don't know the state office in the county to print brochures, that I don't know any flyers, let's do something about informing people, because from my experience when people call you, they ask for help, they want advice, then when you tell them that there's something called the right to free legal aid, they're surprised. People just don't know. And I think that's one of the basic reasons why we have a little request for free legal aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64132	Thank you. It's our guest, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64133	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues. So this report is, in fact, the consequence of the adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, and this report I think is correct, perhaps it was more clearly defined in the report for those persons who have been denied these instructions, means that they have received for free legal aid to see which reasons are more specific to which they have been rejected, whether this is because they really do not meet these conditions prescribed by law, or maybe some other reasons. Perhaps it would be statistically convenient to follow, I have no doubt that they were for no reason rejected. But as far as this law is concerned, I believe that a major step has been taken forward in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, for the reasons that the judiciary and its bodies become available to all citizens under equal conditions in the Republic of Croatia. It is possible through this law to allow citizens, whose property opportunities mean existential opportunities do not allow lawyer engagement, obtaining information on certain legal issues and equal access to judicial and administrative procedures, to at last not be discriminated against and means that they have a place where they can come, where such services can also be provided for free of charge. And that is basically what is in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to guarantee equality in front of all citizens, so it is in any case positive, regardless of what is involved in the negotiations on entering the European Union, but I think it is primarily important for our citizens in the country. In addition to Croatian citizens, the users of this legal aid can also be foreigners at a temporary or permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia, asylum seekers, foreigners under a subsidiary and foreigners under temporary protection who cannot bear the costs of legal assistance without the danger of existential threat. The system of free legal assistance is organised as was said here in the offices of the state administration, in the county, and their branches. The law lays down entities that can provide legal assistance, we will repeat them once again, that they are lawyers, associations and universities. 30 associations have been registered in the Republic of Croatia since 1 March 2010, to provide free legal assistance, and most associations, as counterpart Lucin said earlier, have a safe seat in the City of Zagreb, which is 13. Since the entry into force of the law, meaning somewhere in early February, from February 1st 2009 to March 1st 2010, 4 thousand 545 requests for free legal aid were received, meaning 3 thousand 182 requests were accepted, and that is precisely why I said at the beginning this difference might be good for statistics to see exactly where the problem is and why not over a thousand and something accepted those requirements for free legal aid. Free legal aid was mostly used by citizens residing in Sisak-Moslavina County, 362 of which is one user of free legal aid for every 512 inhabitants and county. Behind Sisak-Moslavina is followed by Vukovar-Srijem County with 361 users, which is one user of free legal assistance for every 567 residents. Then the City of Zagreb follows, etc. It is interesting, however, that the least requests for legal aid were in Split-Dalmatia County, 101 persons, i.e. to every 4000 590 inhabitants was one user of free legal aid. When you take the number of residents of a single county, and then you see, given how much it used, you see how much it literally wastes on one, on each of the people, how much a free legal aid user wastes. Free legal aid is more often used by citizens for secondary, for representation in court, it is 73.23% of cases, and as primary for legal advice in 12.17% of cases. And this is normally and best seen through paid funds, so 8000 149.32 kuna is paid for primary legal aid and 69 thousand 926 kuna for secondary. Funding for the costs of an organisation of a system of free legal assistance is provided in the state budget, but can be provided and the same opportunities are given in the field of local self-government, donation and other sources. And it might now be very significant for local self-government units to allocate certain funds for free legal aid in their area. Not only because someone would say it now, but I think it would be very important that local self-government units have this responsibility for their fellow citizens to enable them or to create them more favourable conditions that they can get this free legal aid not in fact that everything is financed solely from the state budget. For the period of February 2009 and March 2010, legal aid was most often granted for family-law procedures including child and younger minors with behavioural disorders as well as for court proceedings under international conventions adopted by the Republic of Croatia concerning the protection of the rights and well-being of children. Such procedures were 1562 or 49.37%. Legal assistance has been provided to workers and unemployed in 135 cases means procedures or about 41.3% of cases. So these are procedures related to work-law disputes. However, it must be said that there are trade unions in that part, normally for those workers who are members of the union, in fact and legal proceedings for labour disputes, they are achieved through the legal services of their trade unions. According to the report, citizens more often use legal assistance from lawyers in 75.8% of cases while associations providing primary legal assistance in 24.2% of cases. Free legal aid providers are obliged to submit, which is also very significant, annual reports on the spending of funds approved under the projects of the Ministry of Justice until 15 January of the current year, and the neuter resources are required to return to the budget. Which is very important and very important, and we actually saw that over a million and a half thousand kunas were recovered, which means that a good portion of these funds remained unused. And there's a good analysis to be done for. But the fact is and this is what gives some credit to this whole project, that the system has been functioning for just over a year, so I believe that citizens will in the future recognize and use this kind of free legal aid, and normally I think that they need to be there and that you need to involve local self-government units maximumly because in principle they are their citizens and that they have to take part of the responsibility for providing free legal assistance on their territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64134	Thank you. And as last in an individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, and I welcome the young ones upstairs in the assembly. I think it's important that we discuss this law on free legal aid today. Why? I wanted to say this later, I'll say it right at the beginning. Today is the Day of Protection against domestic violence. This is one of the laws that protects them from domestic violence because all those who are afraid, who have no financial means and who do not dare report domestic violence precisely this law guarantees protection that all citizens are equal to the laws of the Republic of Croatia and all those who are violent in the family and who are beating their children, and their children and mothers do not dare to report it exactly this law protects them that even though they do not have money and resources that the Republic of Croatia and our legal system will provide them with protection. That is why today I call on all of these to report every violence in the family and to all those bullies just as we have passed these laws in the Croatian Assembly of Registration and to protect ourselves against those who belong in prisons, not in some important and important functions in the Republic of Croatia. How we fight corruption and organised crime to the end should also be fought against domestic violence. This law is a young law, the law was passed in the Croatian Parliament a year ago. We haven't had time to see all its effects, but we are sure that he is one important law, one law which primarily protects the Constitution guaranteeing the equality of all citizens against the law, which protects all those international legal obligations undertaken by the Republic of Croatia, and also allows those citizens of our country of weaker property status to be provided with legal protection at any time when it comes to primary legal protection, general legal information, administrative proceedings against bodies with public authority, was legal protection when it comes to the protection of rights against courts, when it comes to legal services, union services and associations. What I would particularly point out, which refers to legal clinics and I myself have worked at the Faculty of Law for 7 years, I think the Legal Clinic at the Law Schools in Zagreb and Split has contributed and supported the Ministry of Justice, which in this part gives full support and financial resources to legal clinics. I think that students, I went to law school myself, sometimes they need to finish their second or third year of studies to have the opportunity to sometimes help someone and help with the appeal, help with the legal advice. If anything else, at least give our citizens directions to those bodies where they can find their legal protection. Therefore, here I am giving full support to legal clinics, and when it comes to this Law on Free Legal Assistance, I consider it to be a strong contribution and science, and also to those young people who are educated in our country to be given the opportunity to do so before they leave college to give their contribution and help to the citizens. And unfortunately, sometimes it happens when you finish college that you don't know what you'd do and where you would. It is the legal clinic through all of our laws that we have passed earlier in this House of Justice, the State School for Judicial Officials and all those laws that are an essential basis for the conclusion of Chapter 23 of the negotiations for our country's entry into the EU that is one of the important and strong contributions. What I would support in this debate is that this tariff in services is increased when legal and legal services are provided. These 3 kunas, compared to the year before, may be a shift, but it is necessary to see that the proposal 70% of the legal tariff is incorporated and that it is very important that the people who provide legal protection have the incentive to provide legal protection, and in that part I also support a fellow representative of Lesar who says that the quality of the service provided should also be examined in the end, that those who receive the service can also say whether they are satisfied with the service they have received. I also consider the role of the local self-government unit particularly important. You know, in small areas, you know very well who needs legal help and can't achieve it. People are a little uninformed sometimes, a little ignorant, and they don't even have to know all that. Well, I call on local self-government units to contribute to informing citizens and to help those who may need legal assistance and are inescapable in their daily lives, and they do not know how to achieve it. I also call on the media to contribute to this law in a strong media campaign because we have seen that this number of cases is increasing from month to month, but it is important that the role of both the media and the public and the newspapers, as well as all of us who are engaged in public work, contribute to the fact that this law is given its legal place and its right and real role in the Republic of Croatia. I don't think we should say here that something should be said but to make our own contribution to such laws first of all because these laws guarantee the equality of all our citizens before the Constitution and the laws and we make a strong contribution to the Croatian judiciary at the very door of our country's entry into the European Union. This is one of those laws, I fully support it, I support these changes that we have put here in the debate, I hope that next year this report will be even more thorough, even better, and in this part and form I fully support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64136	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want an additional closing statement? Yeah. Dear Zoran Piculjan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64137	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, our guests. I thank you, indeed, for spending two hours on this very important topic, not because it is a law which is one of the conditions for closing Chapter 23, which in the annual report has received an important better assessment than in last year's report when the state of provision of free, i.e. legal assistance to the Republic of Croatia was not at this level, but because this Law had its purpose logic and will always have and for this reason this debate needs, it is an improvement of the right to access to the right of citizens who need it most. That is why you commended him on the one hand, on the other hand "attack" but rightly pointed to his on the most good part, but also to the mistakes and shortcomings that arise in his implementation. Here, I will not analyse everything that is said here but only try to corely sum up what seems important to me to say to the Croatian public about this Report after the Parliament discussion. First of all, what will have to be done in the next report is that it will not only quantitatively but in-depthly deepen the report and deepen the analysis by all indicators. And that's how we're going to analyze the reasons why the county is the condition it is, is that really how the data shows, which is why the rejections were in 1,000 cases, which are the real reasons. What counterpart Lesar said was that citizens are satisfied with the quality of services, that is, what is important is that we will also try to get one poll, which is why these unused funds are, why they return to the State budget, how people with disabilities are represented in the legal aid system. What awaits us further is this debate, I assure you, and you have all pointed out that the procedure is significantly simplified, not only the form but also the procedure but it does not mean that it is simple it must continue to be as simple as possible, as acceptable to the citizens, in this light we will make one more effort, and that is that public and civil servants are actually doing their job first of all to apply the Law on General Administrative Procedure and to the parties who have their obligation to assist the parties, when they are fulfilling this pattern indeed and do work evenly in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. What are the essential proposals seems to me to be all of these, and that is to some extent to reevaluate this property price, is it really as it is at this point in time in the Republic of Croatia, we will do so to those icons that you indicated from 35 meters of living space whether it is an elimination criterion, it does not have to be but there is no explicit mention of this law but it gives freedom, giving responsibility to the civil servant that by combining these criteria it does not take as a discrediting but, of course, the scratch in the Republic of Croatia is not uniform, for a year it shows us well. The mechanical or mechanical application of the Law, not actually looking at people, can lead to serious problems. What is the other thing and would not return to the past which are estimates, 70 thousand or much less civil society associations, or much less us in the ministries of state bodies, is important to note that associations still have objections to the procedure of applying this Act and their role in providing legal assistance, it is our job to argue in a two-way discussion which will respect the arguments on the one hand to find an even better role, the role of associations, and in that sense, the distinguished representative Horvat spoke about the possible extension of their service provision by the associations themselves. What also illustrates the improvement of the system in walking and this qualitative improvement is that the point has been increased to 3 and now to 5 since recently in the last National paper or one of the latest numbers of the National Journals published 50%, practically the legal tariff, the goal is somewhere to make it 70% of the legal tariff to get a better service in that part. All talked about further information should be focused on further information of citizens and we will continue to do so, what is important will be equalised practice, administrative practice but also affirm judicial practice in the combination of procedural laws applicable in this area, legal tariffs and also this Act. Of course it's all about that complication that doesn't seem complicated to us lawyers and it's not very, very easy to manage. Two final sentences, this regulation needs to experience its stabilisation, simply not good regulations that have been applied revolutionaryly for a year, simply significantly changed. It seems that he also showed his purpose, a ratio, that changes to sublegal regulation with one elastic approach have led to further improvement. At the end of the year we will do one analysis, i.e. the whole, this year and in the middle of next year, of the application of the Law, and by the basis of all these discussions, we will see that we need to intervene in circular issues, so far it seems to us that they should be modified in this way but not only by the intervention that is not the matter of the procedure in the text itself. Improving the practice of sublegal regulatory application of the Law only then... NO, HERE, THIS IS ABOUT THE LAW OF THE EUROPEAN IMPLEMENTATION, ONLY A TERRIBLE LAW, HIS APPLICATION IS UNRELICABLE AND IMPORTANT TO CROSS CITIZES, AND THAT IS WHY WE WILL BE HOPE TO BE, WE ARE SURE IT WILL BE MUCH BETTER. We'd like a smaller circle to be caught and, in fact, if there's a smaller circle of citizens, they'd like to get better. But if this law and this institute want to order their true purpose, it is important that no one in need is left behind from a circle of people who can effectively receive legal aid. I thank you for your fruitful discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64138	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64139	Let's move on. A report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds in 2009 concluded the debate. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds in 2009. Let's please get involved and vote on this report. Score. The report was accepted by a majority of 85 votes in favour, 15 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64140	We move to point 7, which is - Report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2010 Carrier: National Committee. The national committee has submitted this report pursuant to point 2. Decisions of the Croatian Parliament on the establishment of the National Committee. You received the proposal by mail. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Development and Reconstruction and by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. The government delivered an opinion. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the report? Yeah. Honored Vesna Pusic, president of the National Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As overlooked, this is a report by the National Committee on the work of the National Committee, and more importantly on the course of the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June of this year. As it always happens on the agenda a little later than the period for which the report is written, and in the meantime there are various other things that are interesting on that road and relevant for MPs and MPs to know. So we asked, I hope you all have it, to share on the benches on one side the current status of the negotiations, which changed compared to what was 30. Of course, these are these open-and-closed tables. And from that you can see that we still have 9 plus one, and that's one question left. So, nine active chapters of content that need to be closed. This time we shared on the benches a summary of something that was not done in this period to which the report was concerned, but it was done later, but we realized that it was interesting for parliamentarians because it was a summary of de facto something that was done in this House, however, through a whole series of laws relating to the establishment of a basis for a different judiciary. So, laws that are the basis and then for practical implementation of judicial reform. The summary of this is this other material that you have obtained where you see exactly which in the area of justice which is one of the elements, so not all of it, but one of them, in my opinion, and the key element in the chapter of the judiciary and the fundamental rights that have always been considered to be our most controversial chapter, and certainly the most important thing about the foundation on which we build, which has been made in this area. Because my opinion is that we've actually made this de facto in recent months a completely different foundation. What I always say when we talk to EU representatives whether we had a judiciary yesterday that wasn't dependent, and today we have an independent. It's not like that. But did we have any problems yesterday with the basis for building an independent judiciary, the truth. And do we today have sound foundations on which we can build an independent judiciary, also according to my assessment of the truth. And of course that's why this summary here is suggested that you have some sort of review that you can judge autonomously. I am using this opportunity to mention in the area of justice to all of us, and then to the representatives of the government, although not directly, not directly to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, but primarily to the Ministry of Justice, that one of the important things to show is that we are in fact implementing these laws, which are written in this summary, is the obligation that we have made here and that we voted on here in the Parliament, that by mid-January, I think that the date is 20 January, under the new law, we choose a new State Judicial Council. That's the first proof that and that's what you're looking for in chapter 23, that's one of the criteria, that famous thing that they call "the tape record," and that actually means that you're showing that you're really implementing the laws that you've brought yourself. So our first proof that we are really implementing the laws that we ourselves have passed will be the fact that by January 20, we will choose a new State Judicial Council under the new law. I warn all the public that it is necessary to organise the elections. So it needs to start working now, so it doesn't happen to us like we do in a series of things. Among other things, like what happened to the shipbuilding case, that it wouldn't happen to us to be the last hour, we didn't prepare ourselves, and then we're surprised that we haven't actually met a very important criterion that will be followed here, which is whether we're implementing our own laws in accordance with our own decisions. Therefore, it is very important, there is still time, it is very important to prepare for the election, and there will vote all judges in the Republic of Croatia in two circles, it will be the first time. So we should prepare the election for the judges, for university professors, and the easiest thing will be to select those two parliamentary deputies we choose here, one from the opposition, one from the government. But this is 7 judges and 2 university professors on whom all judges in the Republic of Croatia must be declared in secret voting and all of course refer to both state lawyers and the State's Attorney's Council and university professors of legal science in the Republic of Croatia. So it's not something to be, of course it's doable, but it's not something you can do from today to tomorrow. Therefore, it is very important that these preparations take place now, so it is done. Here it is, that is, what does not apply to the immediate period for which this report has been written, but concerns the present state of affairs, and since it is important that Parliament knows, in our opinion, of the present state of affairs also that it has some updated information then we have shared these two additions to you today in this debate. In the period covered by this report, so 1 January to 30 June of this year, what the National Committee has done, the report is structured as usual, but just to point out a few things. So what he did at his first session, we did some kind of inventory of the negotiation process. The meeting was attended by both the prime minister and foreign minister and the leaders of all negotiating groups, those sub-groups in chapters, chapters that have not been closed yet. So we invited all the leaders of the negotiating groups for chapters that are not closed to do a kind of status review in those chapters. When expected, which is where the problems are, which is by meeting the criteria and by doing a review related to these chapters, so at the beginning of the year we made that review. Then we adopted in that period of 6 months and the additions to the negotiating positions in a series of chapters, in the chapter of the Taxes, in the chapter Food Safety of Veterinary and Phytosanitary Policy, in the chapter Transport Policy and in the Chapter of Public Procurement. The additions and reasons for the additions, and the additions actually mean some changes in the negotiating positions and after negotiations with the Commission, an assessment of what the Republic of Croatia will insist on as a candidate, which demands will potentially change or modify and will give up on. We discussed these chapters and additional requirements and changes and eventually accepted a common version of these requirements. And we discussed, in particular, the chapter Market Competition and specifically the situation in shipbuilding where, among other things, Minister Popijac reported on the situation in the shipbuilding and president of the Competition Protection Agency, Ms. Spevec. So, on that painful point as things stand now, it seems that the chapter of the Justice and Fundamental Rights and Chapter Market Competition will either be in the last group of chapters or be the last chapters that we will close in these negotiations. We always assumed that, however, we felt that the judiciary and fundamental rights would be the ones that would be the most sensitive. Now it seems, it's not quite settled yet, either, but now it seems that the competition chapter will be the most sensitive precisely because of the situation in the shipbuilding. At this point, there are still discussions about potential potential investors. In the rest of the report you will see a review of the status in all chapters. I'd still like to draw your attention to the fact that it was held in that first term and round table within the National Committee. As you know, round tables are open to the public, so the media and so on. stakeholders, therefore, representatives of groups which are in some way directly interested. A roundtable was held on the use of European funds and preparedness within both state and local and regional levels for the use of funds available to Croatia from European funds. The round table was attended by a number of representatives of regional development agencies, counties and local self-governments, mostly using their experiences at regional, local level and discussing the difficulties we have at national level, and regionally, of course, because it is a very unequal use or preparation of regional self-government for the use of these funds and these regional agencies. Success is very uneven. Finally, one assessment is given which unfortunately has to say is no longer correct, which is that we expect to complete the negotiations either by the end of this year or in the first months or early 2011. That was the assessment back then, so 30.6 this year when we wrote this report, we finished this report. Unfortunately, today this assessment no longer stands, I can't say that we can stand by that assessment. As shown in this report and in accordance with the rules on the functioning of the National Committee, I, as chairman of the National Committee, was all that time in communication with the Commissioner for Enlargement and with the countries of the Presidents, therefore both in this period and in the present. And now the assessment is that, even yesterday, with Enlargement Commissioner File, who is currently in Croatia, and now the assessment that let's say it is not unrealistic to expect that we can complete the negotiations by mid next year. This means if everything is done as it should be done, let's say in the Hungarian presidency which ends in 30.6 this year, so the Commissioner is also the view that it is possible, but depends on the whole series of factors. As they like to say from European institutions, everything depends on you and really depends very much on us, but some things honestly do not depend entirely on us because when it comes to this final stage, of course, the whole set of elements affects the exact specific date on which we will end these negotiations. But I don't think it's unrealistic and we can say that we expect it to end by mid next year. I would like to take the opportunity here to draw your attention to another element, given that I am the chairman of the National Committee and I have discussed this with the Commissioner for Enlargement, which is something that has been discussed here in the Parliament. It is a referendum on Croatia's membership in the European Union. Namely, given these shifted dates, so the fact that let's just say we're going to end or there's a serious chance that we can finish negotiations by mid-year. The position is Commissioner, you know that after the negotiations have been concluded it is used or it takes another time, one number of months to translate the document into languages and to pass the whole document on board, etc. Therefore, it is the Commissioner's view that it will probably need four to five unlike when it is three to four, four to five months since our accession agreement on ratification is likely to be added and that clause related to the financial discipline and responsibility agreed by the Member States. And to us objectively speaking very easily, almost certainly with these dates that we are looking at right now, it may happen that we overlap the dates of the referendum, because we have now agreed, we have not yet voted as far as I know but agreed that the referendum should be after the signing of the treaty, that the date of the referendum and the election would overlap with us. I want to give you information here I have checked it precisely so that I can report here with the Commissioner whether, what is the position of the European institutions, or the European Commission on this and Commissioner Phil told me and I am telling you here that the European Union has no formal rules in this regard and that the candidate country is free to do whatever it wants. But that the general position, opinion and its most warm recommendation not to overlap the elections, therefore not to be on the same day of elections and a referendum on the European Union, on membership in the European Union for a number of reasons, and one of them is now my addition that, in the campaign for a positive outcome of the European Union referendum, we need to go more all together, or everyone who agrees with this together, and we will not all go to elections together in the campaign. Therefore, overlapping those dates is something that is not recommended by the institutions of the Union although formal prohibitions or formal obstacles are not available. Therefore, if a Member State decides that it will be the same day, it itself shall take that risk, i.e. to assess that risk. There he is. The National Committee will, of course, continue with this work and I hope that you will receive two more reports of this kind and that we will then be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64142	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the government's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64143	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Madam President of the National Committee, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Just a few comments since here we are for the third time in three days on the subject of the European Union in the Croatian Parliament. We had a report on the Spanish presidency, and here is the time period of the report presented by MP Pusic. Just a few comments. The government gave its opinion on the Report of the National Committee and welcomed it and we are pleased that there have been 4 meetings of the National Committee, that certain changes have been accepted in the context of the negotiating positions of the Government of Croatia, and that we have very positively assessed the contribution of the Croatian Parliament and the National Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Integration, in particular in the context of the process of harmonisation of Croatian legislation, and, of course, the continued dialogue that MPs have conducted with Parliamentarians in the European Parliament, either in the national parliaments of the Member States. Several comments since you are right, since we have now practically updated the state of the process at the end of November. It is true that this assessment in the report's conclusion today is a little less ambitious than it was on June 30th. However, I think we can do so recently and expect great support from the next president in Hungary. None of us probably hoped to negotiate during the Hungarian presidency. But unfortunately, the experience of the process is such that he's slower than we all believed together a few years ago. I believe the assessment of the completion of the negotiations by the end of June 2011 is realistic. She's real. It will take a lot of effort to convince our partners that we have fulfilled all the criteria especially in the context of Chapter 23. And that is why it is good for you to point out the key elements and relating to the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Law on Courts, and in general I would say to the new system of education of judges and state lawyers in Croatia who will give us greater confidence in the functioning of the judicial system in the long term. About the very duration of the process. What you conveyed to Mr. Phil's position is very well known to the Croatian government. We have analysed in detail all the legal aspects of the European Union's internal procedures from the moment of the end of the negotiations. So maybe it's a good thing to sort this out. First, it is not usual to initial the text of the accession contract. It sort of concluded politically and technically and then in the last two rounds of enlargement took about four to four and a half months from the moment the negotiations ended until the accession treaty was signed. Why is that? On the part of the European Union, the first final decision should be taken by the ambassadors, namely the rank of permanent representatives in Brussels, followed by the final report of the European Commission, followed by the procedure for granting consent by the European Parliament, i.e. the European Council's decision to sign the accession treaty is final. This kind of walk between the institutions of the European Union usually takes four months. Anything that's underneath that's gonna be big for us, we can say that. ... Four months, about one technological and diplomatic success on our own, but let's say so and on their part. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the estimates are if the end of the negotiations is during the Hungarian presidency, plus about four months you talked about, and then we are calendar in October about next year at this time. At that point of course with the idea of going to a referendum after signing within 30 days, we can also count on all these deadlines that you spoke of and thought about when you held them, when you held a referendum. It is clear that the European Union will not, nor will it practice it, nor would it be wise to interfere in any country's political decisions when it comes to holding a referendum, and whether it will be close to choosing the regular ones for the Croatian Parliament is the matter of assessing, above all, Croatian political actors, and in that sense, I do not believe that anyone on the part of the European Union would have dared to suggest more than what are ordinary oatmeals, and the political assessment is on the Croatian side to make a decision on the holding of a referendum. As far as the aspect is concerned, since you yourself have referred to the campaign, here I came from the meeting that we have at the ministry, where more than 100 people from all Croatian counties, officials in all the information ministries, with them experts who ran a referendum campaign in Finland, Estonia, two countries that are not our direct neighbours, but whose experiences can also be useful to us, their referendum results were much less euphoric than the result in Central and Eastern European countries, in Estonia it was about 58% outing, and 67% of voters for, in Finland, 70% of voters for. So today we are also in a position to hear their experiences that can be very useful for us to organise and prepare I would say more intensive implementation of the communication strategy that we know exists since 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64144	Thank you, Secretary of State. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64145	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We may have just seemingly another regular report on the work of the National Committee in the first part of this year, I say maybe only regularly because it really isn't. It is not according to which stage it is located, or which phase our negotiating process on the accession of the European Union enters. We can definitely conclude, by all means, that the process has entered the final phase, and that it is before us and before the National Committee, and before the Croatian Parliament, before the Government, an extremely important, responsible job, how to make this final stage as high as possible in terms of reform and as short as possible in terms of the time needed in terms of negotiations, in terms of the duration of negotiations, but also as high as possible in terms of informing citizens. Therefore, these three big jobs ahead of us, i.e. the completion of these three big jobs ahead of us, the conclusion of reforms, negotiations, and Europe's communication to the citizens, also require the proper action of the National Committee, but also the appropriate action and proper understanding of all political parliamentary parties operating on the National Committee and in the Croatian Parliament, on how to make this parliamentary contribution to all three of these areas as good as possible, as possible, more effectively. When we look at only what happened in the first half of this year during the Spanish Presidency during the period covered by the National Committee report, then it can be said that perhaps by the number of chapters closed during that period only three, under quotes, or the number of chapters opened during that period of five chapters, it may not have been the most effective period of the negotiation process, e.g. 10 chapters have been closed in the previous period during the Swedish Presidency. However, it is extremely important to understand the context in which negotiations took place during the first 6 months of this year, and in particular to refer to what has been done to open some chapters that we all know will be the key to the success of the entire negotiation process and the reform process, which are chapters on justice and fundamental rights, and the chapter on competition, i.e. the translated chapter on shipbuilding. Therefore, only the opening of these chapters has been a major step forward and I believe that the National Committee has contributed significantly to this very development of the dynamics of the negotiations and the negotiating process during this year. The negotiations themselves took place this year on a wave of four important agreements previously reached within the European Union, or within our bilateral relations with the European Union. At the end of last year, an agreement was reached with Slovenia on arbitration, on borders, an agreement was reached within the European Union on the Lisbon Treaty, on the internal arrangement of the European Union which objectively slowed down our negotiation process, reached our agreement with the European Union or within the European Union on a financial envelope for Croatia of 3 and a half billion euros for 2012, 2013 and reached agreement on the establishment of a working group that began working on the very text of the Treaty of Accession of Croatia to the European Union. These were events that gave themselves an extra swing and an additional incentive to this year's negotiations, and I believe that the National Committee was to a good extent, to the greatest extent possible to use the then created way I would say the overall atmosphere in our negotiation process. The National Committee itself worked in that first area of its jurisdiction very successfully. We in the SDP support such work, we have contributed to such work and we want it to continue on this part where the National Committee is helping the government, helping the negotiating team define maximumly good negotiating positions, those who really reflect the interests, reflect the needs of any economy, any society or individual social groups in Croatia. This job was done in a way that I would almost say, not almost but definitely I would say that the National Committee is the only parliamentary body in the Croatian Parliament that has acted on the basis of the arguments, based on exchanges of views, based on discussions on positions and on proposals made in dialogue and consensus, and not on hand-lifting. Thus, such a way of working on the National Committee has allowed our negotiating positions to be strong enough, clear enough and enough to match the real interest we have in this negotiating process. What we have noticed and what we would like not to be quite until the end of the process so within the work of the National Committee concerns one general understanding of all the participants in the work of the National Committee, and that means all the political parties in the Croatian Parliament, one broad role, one broader meaning of the National Committee, broader than this establishment of negotiating positions or contributions and giving opinions and proposals for negotiating positions. Since the start of its action, the National Committee has been working to become an open forum, a roundtable on which to discuss fundamental major issues related to either the reform process, or the negotiation process. So on the agenda of round tables came topics from agriculture, fishing, pre-accession funds, HRT, or public service, a whole series of such topics came on the agenda and precisely these discussions were also the basis for then and for identifying the relevant negotiating positions later. But also the basis for our legislative work here in the Croatian Parliament not only in adapting to European legislation but also in the part where national legislation is needed and can define its legislative views on its own. We would like that part of the talks on broader issues of internal arrangements, arrangements of certain areas, chapters, the National Committee, or the approach of all parties to the work of the National Committee to be more open than ever, and that with less resistance, we come to an agreement on what these topics are important and how to correct them within the National Committee. Next, the National Committee, especially at this final stage, should properly or even in a better way than before, and that is to be the place of agreement to fully reduce what we are told in Brussels is all in your hands. So, we would like the National Committee, i.e. Parliament as a whole or a parliamentary contribution to the conclusion of our negotiations to be just as clear as possible. That we end up solving what is real in our hands and that the potential slowdowns of the negotiating process then depend only on what is not in our hands, that then in a political way, in a way that the government, the authorities, the negotiating team, can and must discuss with the European partners. All that we need to discuss with ourselves about the dynamics of the reform, about meeting the criteria I would like in that part of the National Committee to concentrate so that it becomes a place that will somehow perform that Croatian monitoring or Croatian track record as the EU or member states like to call it. For example. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We would like before that to be alone within Croatia and within the Croatian Parliament, within the National Committee to be sure that this monitoring of the achievements can indeed look and remove all obstacles so that this monitoring of meeting the criteria by the EU is less favourable or negative. Therefore, all that is in our hands, let us include Parliament in achieving the very results that we are removing possible causes and possible points of slowing down negotiations. Also ahead of us is the campaign, I would not like to call it a campaign, I'm afraid it might actually become a campaign, just a campaign on how to end up informing citizens about making its own based decision in a referendum on EU accession. We would like, we would like it to be a comprehensive process that is not only about the referendum but is about the role of citizens in the process of accession and in the later process of Croatia's action in the EU. Because in the end, it is increasingly heard from the EU that EU citizens should be built, not the EU for citizens. Therefore, a well-informed citizen in Croatia and before the referendum can become well informed only on the basis of a short-term campaign but based on a single overall process, a dialogue on Europe in which to eliminate, discuss and eliminate the causes of mistrust, causes that are not based on real arguments. So, for one dialogue in Europe, not a monologue in Europe, and this is exactly what Parliament and parliamentarians and the National Committee can and should be participants who will contribute even more than ever to the success of this process. Speaking of what really remains extremely important to do, in my opinion, in the SDP Club, there are two chapters, what about justice and fundamental rights, of course, and about shipbuilding on which we should really contribute as much as we in Parliament. The chapter on justice is also much said in the opening presentation of the President of the National Committee. There will probably be areas or sub-chapters of that chapter because it consists of at least 4, 5 large, significant units. From the very reform of the judiciary, from the fight against corruption, organised crime, state administration reform, co-operation with The Hague Court, refugee returns. On each of these chapters, I fear that some of them will be more dependent on the final assessment and the time of the final assessment of the agreement within the Member States than on us but that is exactly what we have to do to work as much as possible on their assessment and on our actual results. And in that chapter on shipbuilding on competition, we also talked about it from the SDP Club, I'm afraid we've come to a situation where we can and must look for the least bad solution because good solutions obviously won't be after the previous two governments missed at least the last few years of 2005-2006 to start a serious restructuring of shipbuilding, now it's going on in completely different, completely difficult conditions, and I'm afraid that this huge shift relative to what's been agreed on so far is difficult to be. What we can look for is, in the very end of the negotiation process, to reduce the negative impact so far made on the inability to make new jobs during this restructuring process, but we will talk about it in individual discussions. All in all, the SDP Club supports this Report, will vote for it, supports the work of the National Committee and wants to continue working with all parties in the Croatian Parliament to be the right place to strengthen our overall contribution, and a parliamentary and party contribution to the completion of the serious process and business of Croatia's involvement in the membership of the European Union, the work that we have taken together and I hope that we will finish which soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64146	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And now it is the HDZ Club and Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64147	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam President of the National Committee, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's my colleague Mimica listed three important jobs that we need to finish by the end of the negotiations, or by the time we enter the European Union, I would like to add four, which is followed by four, which is no less important than all that is stated. In fact, I often like to say that we have been preparing for the wedding all this time, and when we join the European Union we will be married and it will take much longer than these wedding preparations, even though they last long. Well, in that sense, I think it's actually the most important thing, and right now, the most important thing, is to prepare ourselves for how we will function as a member of the European Union. In that sense, it could be widely debated. I will say something at the end of this debate what we here in the Croatian Parliament on this subject should do but I think it is not enough to stress, I think this is all the way and the goal is when we become a member of the European Union that the Croatian state, Croatian citizens, benefit from all this, of course we have obligations as a future member of the European Union, but that this whole of our huge, important work and that the great effort and engagement of many institutions, many people would not be bad I think it is important, at the time when we become a member of the European Union that Croatia and Croatian society and citizens benefit from it. Of course, they will benefit from all the reforms that are being carried out because these are the reforms that we in Croatia would have to do with and without the European Union, but still only membership, something has been said about procedures in the European Union, Mr. Secretary of State regarding the procedure that will take place after the contract is signed or before the contract is signed. There are still many and complicated procedures in other many chapters, i.e. the administrations in which it is concerned, and I think the time is coming for us to start talking much more about it and work much more. Here, our negotiations went in at 6:00, and we're hoping, and so far everybody's said, hopefully the final year. During that period, I think it can be said that the National Committee has carried out an excellent task of parliamentary oversight and that this is the task we recently discussed in the amendments to the Declaration on Fundamental Principles, on the conduct of negotiations. In that sense, the Secretary of State mentioned that we have been working very closely on the European topics these days, I would say that in this sense it may be the European Week in the Croatian Parliament, and given the moment we are at our meeting, or the nearness of hoping for the conclusion of negotiations with the European Union, I think it would be very good for us to enter the European Year, that all these topics and in the Croatian Parliament and in many other forums are increasingly being discussed, because I think that the time is coming for us all but we all to be aware of the implications of the tasks, or the possibilities, so the fact that this is going into this final phase and is soon becoming a member of the European Union. Here is the talk of how dynamic the work of the National Committee has been, of course, always related to what the priorities, or the number of intergovernmental conferences, determines the presidency, we discussed the Spanish Presidency these days. So, it had about a standard number of intergovernmental conferences there were 3, I think that in that sense and the number of chapters that were open, I agree that when we look at 5 open, 3 closed numbers relative to the total number that we have to reach at the end, it might not seem so impressive, however, all of us who do this work a little more intensively know that indeed the figures here are not crucial even though it will ultimately have to be closed. But what has been done behind this in many other areas, I think that in this sense this result of open and closed chapters can be assessed as a good result, especially in light of the fact that we have actually opened up during this reporting period all 33 chapters in which scrining and deep analysis is conducted in the negotiations. In preparation for this job, the National Committee is an extremely important link in the chain of preparation of Croatian views. I agree with the estimates that within the National Committee we have had excellent work, sometimes on some topics sometimes a little sharper tones, but I think that all of this was in order for Croatia's views to finally be crushed to the end that we really have the best possible position at the end that we propose to the European side. And in that sense, I really think that the work of the National Committee was for a very high grade. On the other hand, the fact that we were just discussing the 16 chapters of the negotiations, therefore we are not about what will be closed and opened but also about some chapters in which supplements were needed, opinions, says that the work within the National Committee was indeed very intense. The thematic session on the topic "Restructure in Shipbuilding" and round table on some important topics of accession has already been mentioned. We were certainly discussing a very important topic and these are pre-accession EU funds. However, it cannot be said about the work of the National Committee that, in this context, I believe that colleagues who had previously spoken and other activities that were closely related to the negotiations also took place in the same direction. Thus, during this period, the amendments to the Constitution necessary for the conclusion of negotiations in certain chapters have been agreed and adopted, but have laid the basis for the functioning of Croatia as future EU members and have amended the provisions on the referendum. On the European side at the same time, he began regular supervision of the temporary closed chapters, and it is good that Croatia received a good rating for the job. The good news is that the text of the accession treaty has begun to be drawn up so that the part of the job can be finished faster after the negotiations have been concluded. A fellow secretary of state spoke about how long this process was going on. It may take a month longer or a month shorter. However, we kind of hope that at least as far as the Croatian Accession Treaty is concerned this time takes a shorter time, given the fact that this time has really begun much earlier to work on making this text. However, the fact remains that the text of the Croatian Accession Treaty should have 25 versions including the Croatian language and that, in this sense, the job is of course simply having physical limitations in which it can happen. So, we will try to push from our side, and in this sense, the talks are both with the commission and other bodies working on it, to get this job done as soon as possible. But as already said, not everything in our hands as far as the speed is concerned, so it is not when it comes to this translation that may be a technical issue, but it is not technical at all, because we also care that when we enter, Croatia becomes one of the EU languages and, of course, in those languages, our accession contract will be ratified in the respective parliaments of the Member States. Here, during this period, there has indeed been significant progress in the chapters of the negotiations, I think that this has clearly said the latest annual progress report. This morning, Mr Stefan Fülle spoke in a statement to HRT Commissioner for Enlargement. He himself expressed hope that this will be the last report to be made for Croatia, or that it was also the next year, and the European Commission wants to make every effort to prepare for the signing of the accession contract. I think it's good news, that it's good news that one of the important institutions on the European side we're negotiating but only as a mediator. So, on the other hand, not on the one hand, but one plus 27, so the European Commission plus 27 Member States, and even if we add that up later, we have a lot of actors. But it's good that a strong, large institution that gives yet in many ways the rhythm of negotiations is that at such a high level we get a message like this. I think in that sense everyone who works on this job and certainly in this House the vast majority in one way or another is involved in that we can be satisfied with this message from the European Commission. As far as the Parliament is concerned, we have passed most of the European laws during this period. And I think in a legislative sense, we can say that the job is less of an end. We still have a few laws that are in the process. And as far as the negotiations are concerned, that'll be it. However, I repeat, and I think it is extremely important to remember that all Parliament meetings will have a lot of work to do since it will not only be doing the regular legislative work that would otherwise simplify from what our institutions are giving, but it will have a big job and it will come to it in view of what the EU is asking for. The Lisbon Treaty is mentioned, national parliaments have gained significant rights through the Lisbon Treaty, but I would also say significant tasks. And in that sense, I'd go back to the beginning. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament will, from the first day when we sign the contract, receive the force of documents or the daily force of documents, which will be the first service of the Assembly, and then the MPs who will then be sitting in the Croatian Parliament will have to read, analyze and be asked about, since the procedure introduced by the Lisbon Treaty is being implemented and the subsidiarity of these new legislative proposals is seen. Therefore, there will be a great deal of work in front of members of the Croatian Parliament's representatives in future councils. I think so much that the Croatian Parliament is one of the institutions that must make the same significant changes in the internal structure, but also in the preparation of its current and future representatives, because this job will indeed be extremely intense. As far as the preparations are concerned, I can only say that what is very important is that this great work that we all do according to our Constitution must be approved by Croatian citizens, they must say that what they want is what they want and that our job, primarily by our parliamentary representatives and many others, is to provide this information. In this regard, I would warn and instruct that according to some public opinion surveys that I recently had the opportunity to watch memberships and some of the parties that are very pro-European have a public image that almost half of the members in one party are not so convinced that this membership is good for the European Union. I think that, in this respect, the work within our respective parties is extremely important, but of course it does not exclude or add this job to all the citizens we have to deal with, and this is also our job as parliamentary representatives. Here is the conclusion, the National Committee has continued a good practice of numerous meetings in the country and abroad with the aim of making better representation of Croatian positions and our work practice in this area. In future, on this trail, I hope that the National Committee, together with other committees engaged in negotiations, will work even more intensively on co-operation, with committees in the national parliaments of the Member States, in order to allow real negotiations to be closed soon. It's the part that's not up to us, and we need to convince others to put a little bit more effort into it, and on the other hand, that the future process of ratification of our access contract will pass as quickly as possible. Here, due to all the above mentioned club of the Croatian Democratic Community, will support the above-mentioned report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64148	Thank you very much. It's up to IDS Club and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64149	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here in the introduction we are about to be suggested, or it states better that the negotiations in the 17 negotiating chapters are provisionally closed, that I am not quoting them right now. Negotiations in the additional 11 negotiating chapters were opened, a clear report from 1 January to 30 June 2010. And then we are also told that the negotiations have not yet been opened in five negotiating chapters (three negotiating chapters for which negotiating positions and two negotiating chapters for which no negotiating positions have been delivered). And then it lists what it is, it's chapter 8-market competition, then Fisheries, Justice and Fundamental Rights, the environment and clearly, foreign and security and defence policy. However, just these days, today, media reports show that the Republic of Slovenia is blocking Croatia again when certain chapters are closed. I am now asking Mrs Pusic or the Secretary of State whether it is indeed true. Did our romance of our prime minister and Borut Pahora stop? If it is so that Slovenia blocks Croatia's conclusion of certain chapters, I assume it is because of the Ljubljanska Banka. If that's the case, I'd say it's another hypocritical pressure on the Republic of Croatia. It is clear to all of us that Mr. Pahor has purposed to return the debt of the Ljubljanska Banka de facto from the succession mass that remained behind ex Yugoslavia. Croatia was even prepared to do so. What it means is that from the money or from the assets that remain behind ex Yugoslavia, it means first all the settlements of the debts of the Ljubljanska banka, and then what remains is to be shared. Basel and Slovenia, above all, told Slovenia that this is not how it can go, but obviously that Ljubljana has a B variant. If the debt of the Ljubljanska Banka does not return from the mass of ex Yugoslavia, then the debt of the Ljubljanska Banka should be returned to itself by Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, etc. In one word, Slovenia is trying what Croatia with one large part of its debt or their debt did in '92, '93. when it took over almost 700 million marks of the so-called “save” in the secured savings. transferred savings. There are still about 300 million interest marks left to settle. It is now about 300, perhaps more than one million euros, and thus make a commitment to 115 thousand Croatian savings that were saved at the time in Ljubljana Bank. Basel gave us a little breath, but we'll see how that story finally goes. The second question that arises, and what were all my speakers talking about, is the matter of the referendum. Indeed, the fundamental question arises when this referendum on the European Union should be held in the Republic of Croatia. For me, that's actually the point. According to some articles, Europe is obviously against the referendum being held before the 2011 elections. Why are they against it, because it would be a direct favor to the team in power. But it's obvious that the team in power has come up with a way out of that stalemate position, and they've introduced their unions into the game, the same ones that are, for example, in their own time. Cancelled and protested in St. Mark. And now the referendum for Europe should coincide with some referendum on the referendum. What is the background of this unprincipled deal that was held a few days ago between government representatives and unions? Is the purpose of simplifying the procedure for the referendum, no. Is the rise of a referendum on pedestal direct democracy, no. Is bringing that referendum closer to the citizens, no. The intention, Mr. Shakespeare, and I see that you are satisfied, the HDZ, the ruling majority is the following: bombing referendums with new power. Here are the army gentlemen, not literally, but the bombing of the referendum with the signatures of the new government. That's the point, and that's one dangerous intention, and I think it's one vile intention and it's certainly not fair. And that's why it's urgent... There will be no new authority, so my God, how many punishments there will be, so what will be left of this authority. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's why, Mr. Shakespeare, it is urgent to amend that constitutional provision, that article 86 on the number of votes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's urgent to change. It is also urgent to adopt the new Law on Referendum and to prescribe what these referendums can be led about. That's the point. I listen to union leaders on the Zagreb radio this morning and they talk about taxes. Take it easy with that! So we don't just crash the whole system. I therefore advocate the principle of adopting a provision that 50% of the citizens must come to the referendum, and then let every decision in this country be valid because it will be the legitimate will of Croatian citizens. But what is now the point of a referendum ahead of the elections. Whom he pleases. Well, it suits this team in power. Which is a referendum by election, if the decision can be made by all three, five or seven citizens of this country. Well, that can't be right. That's irresponsible. We are now changing the Constitution because of Europe, favouring this variation we are working with a referendum, and in the end such an approach can literally destroy the country itself. Third question of shipbuilding. It's obviously the same thing other than the Oilies went bankrupt. There are good examples, praiseworthy examples. Here we follow today in Split released a boat worth nearly a billion kuna. So you can. However, we have an absurd provision that existing large shipyards cannot conclude these new contracts until I know what. It is simply a disaster and such a disastrous provision for our shipbuilding needs to be changed as soon as possible. We must also be fair and admit that the subsidies in shipbuilding at the moment when we are looking reach over 50%. In the last 10 years, 20 billion kunas have been set aside for shipbuilding. The guarantees at this time for shipbuilding reach about 12 billion kuna. About 2 billion kuna can be charged this year. So, this year that's ahead of us. And so clearly, it doesn't go any further, but regardless of all this shipbuilding, whatever it takes to give it another chance. Why do you need to give her a chance? So we all follow this statistics and see that industrial production in the Republic of Croatia dropped by 4.4% in last month 2010 compared to the same month of 2009. Without shipbuilding, that industrial production would literally fall apart. Even the furniture industry has begun to collapse, and the prime minister boasts I do not know these export results of this economic branch. Without shipbuilding, the currency liquidity of the Republic of Croatia will be at stake, and therefore we must simply fight for this branch. Of course, I'm talking about that big shipbuilding. I'm not talking about that little shipbuilding that de facto does business without state donations, but it should also be kept in mind that for that big shipbuilding in the budget for next year no kuna is de facto secured. Co-operation with The Hague. I know Croatia is cooperating. I don't know what this Hague wants. We can talk about that here in these places individuals snuck in. Now here's the case of Kerestinac, one of the victims who died there, and I know it personally. That man deserves to be completely rehabilitated. He's de facto rehabilitated, but what he survived, I hope no one would want a dog. And that's what someone has to talk about. Justice. There's a problem. There are judges in this country who unfortunately act on remote control. That's not good. I hope that our judiciary will be autonomous, that the proceedings will not be haired, that everyone in this country will have the right to a fair trial and that politics will not be involved in such proceedings in the future. Equally today's judges, that prosecutors, that investigators don't care who won't use everything in the media for their actions. The game through the media is a feature of free courts, an unfree judiciary and certainly an insecure judiciary. About the media at some other time, but there is a defence policy from this introduction Croatia is in NATO. Which now means that this chapter of foreign security and defence policy has not been opened yet. Now, even this military mission in Afghanistan will increase, and it looks like we're going to be the last one out of Afghanistan and retreat instead of already sending the army home. For the end, Mrs. Pusic just said it. End of negotiations with the European Union, end of 2010 or beginning of 2011. It was repeated by the secretary of state. So this government, which was the priority of the European Union, is not going to do the job for Croatia. Someone said it was not unrealistic, someone quoted this EU Enlargement Commissioner as saying that Croatia's negotiations ended by mid-2011. It's a done quote. Great. So the entry into the European Union has been extended for more time, and that means specifically that it is also a message, I would dare tell Europe and the world of the current Croatian government. The American ambassador at this consultation recently in Zagreb said in Europe you are going anyway, but you lost a year with Europe instead of making investments. The Governor of the European Bank told us to crash into disaster as if we didn't know it. The IMF says Croatia is in a deep economic crisis. The Croatian National Bank and Governor Rohatinski say he regrets not calling the IMF. And indeed we are too busy dealing with this lapidary Europe, well she may not be, the referendums instead of dealing with what life is like to feed this people. I agree that Europe should not wait, but for the end once again to return to the referendums. The referendum and the election yes. A referendum before the election, no. I repeat the referendum for Europe and the election yes. A referendum on the referendum as I call it and elections yes, but it is not before the election to enter the referendums because it will simply prove to be a dangerous game in which the team in power will normally benefit itself. Clearly, gentlemen, corruption has destroyed both the society and the chances of Croatia entering the European Union, has destroyed the possibility of a decent life, and it is clear that such a Croatian Europe will not continue for some time. And on the other hand, this Europe has enough problems with itself, so maybe it will disappear sooner than we will, to be cynical, come in. Greece has withdrawn 27 billion euros or dollars, Ireland is asking for 85 billion dollars, what will happen to Spain, Portugal I don't know, but I know that another problem like Croatia doesn't need at the moment and that's why these deadlines are coming up, that's one detail. And the second is that he doesn't want to help and give pay to this team in power. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64150	Thank you very much. It's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64151	I've got 15 minutes. It's over now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64152	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64153	Here, I support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64154	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we stay at the level of optimism spread by the National Committee. And here are the ladies and gentlemen, the traditional visit of the students and teachers of the 13th generation school, the Ban Josip Jelačić war school is in the Croatian Parliament, upstairs, so let's welcome them. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] As did the members of the war school for visiting us. And now, before I give my word to the rapporteur of the report, or to the chairman of the National Committee, we would have three correct allegations. First, she's Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica. Not three, but four.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64155	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I am sorry to have to spoil this idyllic around this morning's atmosphere, which refers to the optimism you said about, regarding the work of the National Committee, but I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the European Union is against the referendum to be held together with parliamentary elections. No one said that before or after, only in Mrs Pusic's speech there was a sign about her conversation with Mr... Therefore, your claim is incorrect, and you abuse this debate where you have one of your general general debates in general by the political state and your view of it. [[You don't understand.]] So in no word did you refer to the work of the National Committee, nor did you, not even commend it to the work of the National Committee, but you used the opportunity to talk about the referendum, and just two days ago we discussed it, and I believe that tomorrow we will confirm the amendment to the Declaration on the holding of the referendum within 30 days of the signing of the contract, so it is very difficult to adjust it to what you have alluded to.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64156	Thank you. We have a correction, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A series of incorrect allegations that a colleague states, and at least he's talking about the subject he's supposed to be talking about. So he said today's wood industry is collapsing and the prime minister praises it. You could read for yourself that the wood industry was on the road to recovery, which shows positive trends in the first 8 months, the export of wood industry increased more than 10 times compared to last year's period, imports decreased 20%, furniture exports increased 13%, the wood industry achieved a surplus of $170 million, and last year 39 million. So don't reduce any progress in this country. I know it bothers you, but you're still moving forward. And in the future, look back on the subject to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64158	Thank you. We have a correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64159	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Cain, allow me to correct your allegations when you say we're in the lapidar business. First of all, we do not do any lapidarian things, although it would be good to speak as Croatianly as possible. On the other hand, you said it would be a good idea to work on how to feed I don't know the population. So you should have supported the budget of the Republic of Croatia which is the answer to the problems and which is the answer to the situation in which Croatia is also the transitional period towards that improvement and improvement. On the other hand, this reminded me very much of the finding of the man who visited Croatia and said everything I saw in Croatia I liked, and everything I heard did not like. I feel like he listens to you regularly, and he and we all get together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64160	Correction, Mr. Representative and Vice President Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64161	Mr. President, I would like to correct only one quote, since this debate is also being held, and otherwise today's media is talking about this subject, because in Croatia the Commissioner for Enlargement is visiting, on all the media it is said that it was received by the President of the Republic and, on occasion, I think it is over in this way and addressed by Mr.... that we like you and we want you in Europe, and the quote here which was said that Europe will not. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64162	Thank you. Now, please welcome Mrs Vesna Pusic, President of the National Committee, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64163	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, not wanting to get into the attitudes that are expressed here, because it's the right of everyone, and of every club, just because of the accuracy of this report. In fact, it seems to me that because of the public, it seems to me that the confusion in his presentation of counterpart Cain referred to the status, so which chapters were opened, which were closed in the negotiations set out at the beginning of this report, so he stated among other things that we had not yet opened Chapter 31, so chapter relating to foreign security and defence policy, that we had not opened the chapter of competition and justice. I warn that this display of the status at the beginning of the report is a demonstration of the situation in the negotiations as it was on the day, as it says here on 1 January 2010, so at the beginning of this period. And at the end of the report, so on page 12 at the end of the report, the status of the negotiations as it was on June 30, 2010, that's what this is, and so at the end of the reporting period, it can be seen that we no longer had unopened chapters on June 30th 2010. All chapters were opened at the end of that period. Of course, we had 13 chapters that weren't closed, but 20 chapters were closed, and 13 were open, and then we still have those two. So, I just wanted to mention this about the reference to the data that was provided in the report. As far as I'm concerned, and I think everyone knows, at this point, that I should answer the question of my colleagues, Caina Slovenija, is not blocking anything. So it doesn't block the closure of any chapters, so at this point it's not on the agenda. And as far as shipbuilding is concerned, my opinion is that the shipbuilding not only needs to survive but it can survive. The difference in the chances of shipbuilding, and some other activities, is the difference between timely response and late response. The fact that the shipyard "Olinik" has been removed from the list of companies in difficulty shows that shipbuilding can survive. The only problem here is that something that was needed and was on the agenda to be done in 2006 as a restructuring was delayed and delayed and we came into this stalemate position. It is also not true, I repeat, that the EU has blocked orders, new orders of ships until restructuring is carried out. After 4.5 years of waiting, the EU has blocked new orders until restructuring programmes are developed. Therefore, not until the total restructuring is implemented, but until programmes are drawn up and accepted by our Competition Control Agency and by the European Commission. Therefore, not the realisation of these programmes, but until these programmes are developed and accepted. And at this point, the main issue of shipbuilding is to really stop the political bickering in which shipbuilding is used as a talent, i.e. as a token, and to begin to concentrate in fact on serious restructuring and finding serious investors who are indeed the solution to what Croatia and shipbuilding really need. And until it begins, the shipbuilding is in danger. And if we have a serious investor and we take it off the agenda of political bickering, and we put it in serious projects, then we have a shipbuilding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64164	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at 13:30 in the hall of Stjepan Radića, the Environment Protection Committee will hold its 43rd session. He would now ask the last speaker on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Bora Grubisic, and then I will address with a statement from the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64165	Thank you very much, Mr. President, President of the National Committee, Mr. from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. I thought on several occasions to raise a plate of corrections of incorrect allegations, but I remained, to say abstention, but I was really moved by one metaphor used by the distinguished colleague Pejcinović, and in connection with the wedding, so I would say who – Croatia and the EU, right. I just don't know who the groom is, who the bride is. I don't know what a dowry is, and I don't know what a wedding night or a future marriage will be like for those two legal entities. ... Louder? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's the kind of thing you might whisper sometimes, isn't it? And 25% of marriages are broken down in the first five years, statistics say. But joke aside and metaphors, this is a serious thing that actually concerns the fate of the people and the fate of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. You know, as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia know, that statements and prime ministers and all officials were that the EU and Croatia negotiations would be completed by the end of this year. And even in this report of the National Committee dated 26 July 2010 on the last page, it says that the National Committee estimates that major progress has been made in the first half of 2010, so it is realistic to expect the technical conclusion of the negotiations by the end of 2010 or early 2011. Now, therefore, our same President-in-Office, the National Committee, says that this is the earliest half of 2011 and our esteemed Mr. from the Foreign Ministry said the same thing if it all goes as God commands and that it depends on saying a lot about us etc. In the end, we also received a report from the latest of November this year, saying that all 35 chapters were opened and that 25 were closed. We've got 10 more loose ends. Well, I'm a lot more concerned with the report from the National Committee which of those chapters that, it says here temporarily closed, 18 of them in a total of 18 in an explanation, for example. Freedom of movement of workers — Chapter 2 of this chapter in the period from 1 January to 30 June 2010.", so during this period, "the National Committee has not discussed or received documents concerning this chapter. He then did not discuss or receive documents for Chapter 3 of the right of establishment and freedom to provide services. So then he didn't discuss Chapter 6 of the company's right to trade, so he didn't discuss intellectual property law chapter 7. So the National Committee did not even discuss the financial services of Chapter 9, so it did not discuss information society and media, so it did not discuss energy chapter 15, so it did not discuss Chapter 17 of economic and monetary policy," then statistics, that there were no longer 18 of them, because I would exceed my allowed time. And what does that mean? That the National Committee is not informed of what has been negotiated, and how will the citizens of the Republic of Croatia know what has been negotiated. So does the citizens have the right to negotiate their fate, whether there are any brochures in which the state of Croatia reports its citizens on the course of negotiations and what awaits them. And even the media they are and they don't care about it, they don't have a research spirit or something else. The HDSB will support this report as the facts that were numbered, 4 were meetings, meetings of the National Committee during that period of time from New Year's Eve until the end of June. It will also support what is listed in the form of the facts that are numbered, and which has no objection or objection to what is thus explicitly stated in this Report. However, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja has warned before that it is totally unacceptable to keep all information secret about the negotiated and provisionally closed chapters in the pre-accession negotiations process. Furthermore, it is obvious and insufficiently prepared that, above all, the administration in the Republic of Croatia for the entry into the European Union, both with regard to the use of pre-accession funds and with regard to the structural and cohesion funds that will be available to the Republic of Croatia or before the entry into the European Union. This unpreparedness and disorganization will result in the fact that it will most likely be in the first years of membership, so I don't know exactly when, but it does a lot of associate me in 1918, 2018, but I don't want to be such a skeptic because we're like a party to join the EU, but there's about 100 of us close to being. So this unpreparedness and disorganization will result in an annual membership fee of 600m euros greater than the funds that Croatia can and will withdraw from these Funds. That's what we're afraid of, and that's what we're worried about. The referendum may be here in this place when we discuss this matter, perhaps too much to talk about. But Mr. Cain isn't here, and some others, when the HDSSB fiercely defended that 50% figure, I came out of the old constitution, one that was no longer in force and wrote, however, the 50% constitutional provision was changed, and now Cain remembered that he was saying that it should be returned. Well, we won't change the Constitution every three months, even though that kind of thing happens strangely. Is there still going to be stairs or footing, that's what I call it, and that's what I'm talking about when there was a time in connection with so many of our neighbors that we love so much, and they, Slovenians, are still going to be apart from the Saudria wave that's not yet up for arbitration because it's a little quieter, waiting for everything else. So then the Ljubljanska Banka whose debts should be settled by Croatia, and then some other things, as long as this blackmail and Croatia are going to go on, it's really hard to predict, and I think that you said that you don't really have any knowledge of the problem, but you haven't solved the problem before, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia led with someone else, so the National Committee only counted the facts that were under way, in opening chapters, closing chapters and a clear session held by the National Committee, which we as the Report, as HDSSB support. So, once again, I warn the citizens, and I would ask your MPs, do you have any knowledge or connection on what's open and closed. What Croatia negotiated in the negotiations, do you know Mrs. Shuica, what Croatia negotiated in the chapter on agriculture, come on tell me? You don't know, I know you don't know or say entrepreneurship and industrial policy, you know? Okay. So, the Croatian public wants to know clearly what Croatian negotiators have negotiated with the European Union in this process of Croatia's accession and eventual membership in the European Union, that is what we want. We in Slavonia, above all, in the chapter on agriculture, in the chapter on regional development, etc. We will support the report with our observations, suggestions, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64166	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, as I have announced, I will address you on the occasion of November 25th which we mark International Day of Combating Violence against Women. So today November 25th, we mark the International Day against Violence Against Women. I would like to remind, on behalf of the Croatian Parliament and this occasion, how important it is that we think about the issue of violence against women and beyond the appropriate events on this day or National Day of Combating Violence against Women, because it is a problem which is not only about women, but about the whole society that is on the path of full democratisation, it must recognise and recognise the fact that violence against women is still an irregular position of women, and above all a serious violation of their fundamental human rights. The Republic of Croatia has adopted a whole series of regulations, policies and strategies in order to combat all phenomena of violence against women and families more successfully and to make undisputed shifts in many areas within the framework of the fight. However, the figures and indicators are unfortunately and further obvious and visible, and lately we have seen even more and more tragic cases reminding us that we must not give up and that it is of invaluable importance to keep in mind that our laws should be complemented in a consistent manner and that only systematically and coordinated with civil society organisations, we can successfully and effectively oppose this serious problem. The Croatian Parliament therefore also wants the public's attention on this issue, and the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament organised an event aimed at symbolising the determination of all MPs and representatives to continue the systematic fight against violence against women, including domestic violence. I therefore invite all MPs and representatives to join me in the break, which will now be, in the space outside the hall "Ivan Kukuljevic" on the ground floor so that we can mark today with a symbolic gesture. Thank you very much. We'll continue at 15.00 hours with this agenda point. The first is Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64167	My colleagues and fellow MPs, I suggest we begin our afternoon work, and we have an individual debate. First, a distinguished colleague, Dubravka Shuica, checked in. Here you go, Comrade Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64168	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm going to try to make this debate as brief as possible so we don't repeat ourselves. In any case, I want to support with my debate the work of the National Committee which definitely played a very important role and still plays a very important role in this accession process, and they can really say, apart from knowledge and professionalism, they had great enthusiasm and they did their job in this way. They had four meetings in this observed period of the National Committee from which we see that we have come out with all the open chapters, but since we are currently in the November month at the end of the second period I can say that we have 35 open chapters and 25 closed which I consider to be a great success. The fact is that this report on behalf of the National Committee also thought that the technical conclusion of the negotiations would end at the end of 2010, which did not happen, but here we also have the best announcements that this will be over in the next six-month period. We also hear positive statements from Commissioner Phil today in Zagreb, and I believe that his visit currently means something, and I believe that we have responded to this part concerning regional policy, regional approach, and I believe that this is the same one of the signs, it might not have happened to come to Croatia today. That's how I interpret it, and I think there's something about it, although of course it remains his statement, a statement by everyone in charge of the commission that everything depends on Croatia. As far as we're concerned, we're doing everything like the Croatian Parliament, we've passed the laws. In this year we were predicting if I remember the 12 laws correctly, we adopted, we have another 5, and 2 depend on those changes to the Constitution. That's what we'll do. What is also important to point out, that we are almost well, since we have opened chapter 23, and it has tortured us most with chapter 8. Market and competition, I would also like to welcome this summary that we received from the National Committee, which concerns Chapter 23. And I want to draw attention, and I believe that this is what we and the Ministry of Justice and those in charge are doing, and that's the deadline of 23 January to which we have to choose a new State Judicial Council and it's good that we've all got this on the bench and we've regained our awareness of what we've passed in the laws, but maybe it's really necessary to do it in time and not be one of the reasons for stopping that chapter. Normally, to praise that during this period as Mr. Mimica said this morning, we solved the problem with Slovenia, that the Lisbon Treaty was adopted that the financial envelope had come and that we must make good use of it and that a working group working on the text of the contract was formed. Normally, the most pressing issue of the referendum these days is because we talked about it, changing the declaration. With regard to holding a referendum, I would not like it to become a key political issue now, a question that will actually be a topic of opposition between the SDP and the HDZ, conditioned left and right. I believe that we also need and can agree on this and that it is almost impossible to set up, if we have already brought that amendment to the declaration, that within 30 days of the date of the signing of the accession agreement a referendum will take place. Then how can we set that up with the date of the election? I don't think that will be possible, that the referendum will certainly happen before the election and that will give us all wind in the sails. Since there was a consensus on the issue of Europe, there is not a single serious party in Croatia today that has an anti-European mood. Something I noticed on the Tourism Committee yesterday, so I think it's nice to say here, even though it's a small auditorium. On the Tourism Committee we had a debate over the season 2011 so the Croatian tourist community took out some of its slogans with which it intends to make a promotion for next season, so they said, one of the slogans that I particularly liked is that it will be after the jumbo posters, etc. Come to the 28th member of the European Union. I think that this is a very good idea and that this could also popularise not only Croatian tourism but also Croatia as a European country, as you know that this year the recommendation of all European Union countries gave its citizens and citizens to spend their vacation in their countries, if they can't in their countries, then at least in the countries of the European Union, and then here we are in that third one bloc. I hope that if our expectations are met and we do everything we need to do, we could be the 28th member state and that slogan could help us a lot. There's just one more thing I'd like to say. This is about this Lisbon Agreement, we have said it several times, and today Mrs. Pejcinović Buric pointed out. So, the role of our Parliament, the Croatian Parliament. After entering the European Union, it will be important, it will be important, we will get all the laws at least 8 weeks before, so there will be time for discussion, there will be time to get to know all these laws, and we will not, just as we say, lose identity and lose importance as a small country in that great union. And of course, what I believe the Secretary of State knows well is what he was talking about this morning in the introduction, which is a communication strategy. It started in 2006, but I think it's urgent to step up, you said you were doing it by local administrations and self-government, by local media, and also by schools. I'm talking about seniors, fourth graders and colleges. I think it is very important that our citizens, however, do not feel that our citizens are still sufficiently familiar with what it means to become a member of the European Union. Of course there are benefits and disadvantages, but surely there will be more benefits. Everything depends on our skill, and I'm sure we'll do it to the common forces. I support the report on the work of the National Committee in the first six months of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64169	Thank you very much to my colleague Shuica. The esteemed colleague, Tonino Picula, applied further. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone, too. Dear colleague Marin Jurjevic is on his way. Here you go, colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64170	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This morning, there were a lot of words about shipbuilding, and for me, it is indicative that the president of the National Committee said that the judiciary was thought to be the last chapter to be closed, and that it turns out to be a chapter of competition, and that is precisely because of the problems related to shipbuilding. This report shows that at the 52nd session held on 11 June 2010, with the participation of the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the member of the negotiating group, the National Committee is in charge of the state of the shipbuilding negotiations. It is no secret that the problem of shipbuilding has become a top topic in Croatian society, unfortunately for many of the problems that arise there. Not a small part of our public especially in those parts of Croatia, and that includes my city of Split and Dalmatia, but also residents of other parts where the shipyards are located have begun to ask the question of how this chapter negotiates shipbuilding problems. This morning, it has already been pointed out as part of the public, especially those related to shipbuilding, that it was not acceptable for the Croatian side to accept the conditions of blocking, the contracting of new jobs of Croatian traffickers until reconstruction programs have been developed because this means in a certain way a quiet or crawling liquidation of Croatian squares. I would like to point out that Croatian shipbuilding represents 12 to 15% of Croatian exports and that it is irreplaceable in the external trade balance of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, regardless of the rather negative relationship that is spreading from certain circles to shipbuilding in the public, it should be said that shipbuilding is the economic branch with the highest added value of all major economic branches in Croatia and about 305 in the shipyards themselves, and 50% if we include the accompanying economy. At this point, directly and indirectly, its fate, its life, binds about 40,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia to shipbuilding. I also think that it is rarely ignored that the ship is a highly complex product, that it is at least as far as I'm concerned, the most authentic Croatian product that links not only decades and decades of knowledge acquired with shipbuilding, but also connects modern science, our universities, and especially universities that develop and areas related to shipbuilding, then there are institutes, etc. Since science is the most sophisticated, and it seems to me that the most needed and most prospective product a society can give by choking shipbuilding and a good part of science will be suffocated. The value of the annual production of Croatian shipbuilding is over a billion US dollars. Yesterday in Split, the most expensive ship ever built in Croatia, worth a billion kuna, which belongs to the world's top in technology and all other characteristics. I'd like to point out that she has a clue that we're just doing almost what would be said to a coloquial shell ship, and that all technology, etc. It is outward, that this fama is a fake fama, that the domestic component makes up the value of the ship and that shipbuilding according to experiences so far in the world, that it is the activity that leaves the states when they cross gross national income per capita of $30,000, which we certainly do not belong to. The income from the ship is multiplied threefold within the Croatian economic space, so the overall effect of shipbuilding, it amounts to as much as three billion US dollars. We've heard that privatisation is not a condition. Privatisation of trades for entry into the European Union, but it is their rationalisation, but it is their restructuring. But it seems to me that under a privatisation company that was sold to the Croatian public as a necessary condition set by the European Union, which was not, under the privatisation company, winding up and that is an important difference. No one is against restructuring, but it is a fact that in the last six years no one has been offered any acceptable programme of reconstruction of our smugglings, that our government tried to make such a programme in 2008 and that this programme of reconstructing our smugglings by the European Union and its experts has been assessed unacceptable. And now, after six years of inaction, no matter who I think went there in 2000, in 2003, it started to work to restructure, unfortunately it all matters, and today we're where we are. Therefore, I think it is necessary to lift the ban on making a contract because it has become nothing but what it would say in Split, in order to actually condemn shipbuilding to death, and then in Dalmatia, the economy will fall to its knees, and God knows I don't even know how Croatia will go, no matter what some think it is, the colpo morto is saying, so something that binds you to the bottom, I think that developed shipbuilding, with restructuring, with rationalization, but therefore with necessary procedures, and not just political acrobatics that have been carried out in many squares has not only a chance, but a perspective to help Croatia. Someone mentioned this morning that the oil was proof that it could be done, and I would say that but there were no experiments done with the administrations in Ulnik, and there were no things that were done that were largely brought to the knees by the incompetent people who were brought here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64171	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Dragutin Bodakosh, the next one checked in. Well, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64172	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. So here's this report that we have on the National Committee is if we last said that at the time of Sweden's presidency was one turning point which is, here's a big progress. Normally, it is good and nice to be able to understand such things, to read, and to discuss in that spirit. However, this turning point and this progress will normally not be as it should be, unless the finale is successful, i.e. to close all open chapters. Here we get indicators and data as to whether it's open and closed, and everything else, if I didn't say it again, I would only say something about agriculture and rural development, this chapter is open chapter 11, opened on 2.10.2009, means during the time of Sweden's chairmanship, and what we normally welcome as such. However, the criteria for the opening of this chapter were one criterion, it was carried out, and three criteria were set for the closure itself, and certain transitional periods were requested for this chapter, specific exceptions, which are expected for certain negotiations, i.e. those negotiations for a year. What may not yet be concrete and what many of us do not know, and even less those who should and who are very interested in it are primarily agricultural producers, the question is how and it is done, and the conclusion of this negotiation and whether it is over or not at the end, whether this chapter is not closed and related to certain things related to direct payments. What are these, we have obtained indicators and data on what the envelope will be, that is, 50% direct, 50% rural development, but what are the reference periods, whether for the 2005 plant production in 2007, for livestock farming in 2007, and what about the mined areas, or mine suspected areas, this is, for example, a very large part in Slavonian areas, and this is a country that is certainly very high quality and that when it is cleaned up as such that it should and should be encouraged to produce in such a single country. What about the issue of the overall agricultural area that Croatia has and which should encourage and encourage itself as such. The question then is how to use these incentives, and in particular the meaning of the paying agency in agriculture. I recently read, I don't know in the paper that this agency cost about as much as all the funds we received from the EU access funds. Normally, it can be turned to whether it is too expensive or not, but I think the meaning of the paying agency in agriculture is great, and that it will also have to know as such how to include these national production support in this part, because if there is a drop in certain productions, then we will surely have to carry out some stimulation and production with national aid, and not just what we expect from the European Union. The question of these support as to how they will move over the next three years, are all issues that are normally being dealt with in the negotiations and that they will be resolved and it would be good to resolve in favour of our production, our producers, because it is one of the important components in the full production and maintenance of agricultural production, i.e. agricultural production as part of the common European agricultural production. It's the same question of trade mechanisms. How and how the provisions of the acquis of the European Union will apply. We will certainly be witnesses when we enter the European Union, that one major part of the import of agricultural products will appear on our market. How and in what way will we have and what protective measures to prevent these disorders, or to eliminate some of our production? Will it also be possible to use how and how, as Europe uses certain export subsidies, so that this production that I think could be competitive with Europe could be exported? These are all, normally, issues related to wartime production as well as to certain quotas that will be tied and about exports I do not know about sugar, meat, milk, wine and other such products. We know that just in Europe we have certain surpluses at this moment and wine and I don't know the olive oil etc., and our agricultural policy went in terms of both raising and bigger, here I am listening today, says we have 5 million olive trees, and we think until we enter Europe so much that we have. Therefore, it is good that we increase production, but we also need to know well how to do with these surpluses and how to set up when these goods enter and we do because we see already now that they appear I do not know Macedonian wines, etc., which are much cheaper than ours that it is very difficult to deal with such competition. The question is what will happen and how after that. It's the same issue of organic farming. We recently passed this law. The fact is that we are at the bottom of ecological production, about 15,000 hectares, I think Slovenia itself has twice as much as we do, not talking about one Spanish that has over a million acres. Therefore, in this part too, we will need to have certain things and we must have a certain policy as well as in what way. And especially this rural development, I think there will be funds, we know how much and what, but the issue is a strategy that hasn't been made yet, and the way to use them will be very important. Therefore, these are all components that are very important in this part of the negotiations. I believe that in this year many things have already been in the good and negotiated. However, all of this needs to be transmitted and one communication with the population established. I primarily think with farmers, or farmers when I talk about this sector because we know that even they don't know from the associations of these peasants went to Brussels to ask something, this, this, this, I don't know, etc. I think in that part, we need, as it is called, to communicate much more, and that is why we know all these things that we want to pass on if we want to end these negotiations and when there's a referendum to make that referendum work. However, it is much more important that after entering, we succeed and continue successful production by, as we call it, our farms. Therefore, the question of information, the question of the transfer of this knowledge, should be much better and much better. And finally, I think that this implementation of certain these rules should be truly and qualitative so that we don't have to rewrite them afterwards, and this is all that's said today, and what the president said is unreality or reality that by the end of the Hungarian presidency, this accession will be over. I don't think we should be unrealistic, but I think we should be optimistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64173	Thank you very much, dear colleague. An esteemed colleague, Iron Flego, also applied for the debate. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64174	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, unfortunately, currently there is no President of the National Committee here, of course we all have a kind of political consensus on the need to enter the EU, of course these negotiations are complex, slow sometimes and difficult, but we all believe that the EU is bringing us standards that bring improvement for all of us both legally and daily and ultimately economically. And because of all this together, we should not slow down the negotiations or perhaps restore them to the starting position. I'd like to warn you of two elements from more recent events in public. And Mr. Secretary of State I understand you as a bond between one, as on the one hand a representative of the Government who is here, and on the other hand as a representative of the Government who will convey some of our suggestions to the Government or perhaps our opinions. About 4 weeks ago, it was found out that the government made a decision at the end of last year to store radioactive waste at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. For 4 weeks, tensions and assurances took place that, according to international standards, the disposal of radioactive waste should not be in the inhabited area. That the disposal site of radioactive waste should not be in thorny areas. So, Zagreb seems to me a rather populated place. It is generally known that Zagreb is a thorny area and in the case of tectonic disorders, there are no structures that could withstand it. And thirdly, the disposal of radioactive waste must be subject to very strict supervision so that in most countries, special military units or special police units are controlled. Ruđer Boskovic has a fence of a night watchman at 4,5km. And now what special measures they are, I don't know. If this government decision had happened to be implemented, I fear it would have stopped us greatly, and perhaps it would have created additional difficulties in our negotiations, and fortunately, the government has given up on it. Which is under public pressure, which is under expert pressure. ... Can I go on? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I would ask that you pass on our wishes and perhaps our demands to the Government not to make decisions that are contrary to EU decisions. And the second one seems to me to be an even worse case, and it's almost as if it were an even more tragic case, which is the recent insistence of the Ministry of Science to put in the procedure a package of laws relating to science, higher education and university. We have provisionally concluded Chapter 25 on 12.06., Chapter 26. temporarily completed 11.12.2006. In this team, I have participated in these negotiations, in these negotiations we have presented our situation, our administrative structure, our legal and constitutional provisions and so on. What is now important in the public debate changes both the governance structure and the science and the university, significantly changes the structure of public scientific research institutes and actually affects one good part of the fully defined area of constitutional law i.e. The autonomy of the university that we have guaranteed by the Constitution. If by any chance, I personally don't understand the motives that this package of laws was made, I have a whole series of critical remarks but now independent of it. By any chance, if we were to pass these laws before I joined the European Union, we would have to reopen the temporarily closed area because there have been significant changes in these areas, and the question of whether it is meaningful. And it is in that desire that negotiations should not be stopped on the one hand and not be renewed once the final points are renewed, that I refer to you as a representative of the Government and the proposal and also a kind of demand that this does not seem to be, that everything that seems to be in the future, not because of the European Union but because of our good, agrees with your service and the negotiating team so as not to have any misunderstandings and additional difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64175	Thank you very much, Professor. We've exhausted all individual reports. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State wants something final. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and Mr. Representatives. Just a brief review since today's debate is still under discussion report by the National Committee and a smaller report by the Government two days ago. I've noted several of your valuable observations regarding the broader context of the negotiations, part of what's already closed, I repeat temporarily closed. I would only mention that in agreement with the European Commission, so-called The monitoring process of the Commission's commitments and services and through their reports very well monitors what Croatia is doing and with the temporarily closed chapters, and at the end of the process all chapters will be reopened in order to see two things, one is the possible evolution of the new acquis of the new acquis of the European Union which came to the table and all that Croatia has done in the context of already undertaken commitments. As for the Government, we support the Report of the National Committee and will take care of aspects related to competition, especially the issue of state support to Croatian shipyards. On a number of issues related to agriculture and rural development, it is a chapter that has yet to be closed that will be on the agenda at the beginning of next year we hope for the next year during the Hungarian Presidency, as well as on all other issues, of course about this key one which was most discussed today, and this is the total reform of the judiciary that was today and the subject of Commissioner Füle's talks and all Croatian officials, I also had a chance to meet him between our two discussions during the day. Thank you very much. We welcome once again the acceptance of this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm concluding a debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64178	We move to the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2010. The applicant of the National Committee, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2010 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This report on the work of the National Committee was adopted by a majority of 98 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64179	Furthermore, according to the agenda, the 8th point was, however, due to the justified prevention of the applicant's report, the person is sick. We are going to the 9th item of the agenda, which is - Report on the work of the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the INA of the Oil Industry d.d. and all contracts and additions of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic partner MOL Hungarian oil. and gas. Plc. The Commission for the Determination of Facts concerning the privatisation of the INA of the Oil Industry, as well as all contracts and additions of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic partner of the MOL, submitted its Report on the basis of Article 12 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on investigating committees, we received the proposal by mail. If the proposing representative wishes to further explain, the chairman of the committee, the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64180	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The INA Privatisation and All Contracts and Contracts Supplements between the Government and the IOL Strategic Partner should be determined why MOL was given more management rights than its INA property, why gas business was taken over and purchased the gas storage facility Around, whether there were any prospects for MOL, and whether the interests of the Republic of Croatia were protected in the whole process of negotiations with MOL. The Commission worked from 4 May to 15 October 2010 and in its work was guided by the Constitution, the Laws on the Investigation Commission and the privatisation of the INA and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Research Commission. A large number of documents were collected by the government, INA, the Defence Fund, HANFA and the Croatian Parliament. The government has removed the confidentiality codes from all documents other than the contract and the addendum of the gas business contract which it did only later on 12 October, except for the article relating to the gas price calculation formula. The INA privatisation law in Article 4 defined the course of privatisation. And that 1st transfer without compensation 7% of the shares in the Defence Fund, selling 7% of the shares to employees and former employees, selling 25%+1 shares to a strategic partner, selling at least 15% of the shares in the public offering process, selling or replacing the remaining shares to a strategic investor or on the capital market, and the rest are shares for compensation to former owners. So far, the first four stages of privatisation have been realised, on each stage, the government has been obliged to obtain the consent of the Croatian Parliament, which has been done so far. The process of selling 25%+1 to the strategic partner began in 2002 with the publication of an international tender for interest in the purchase of a 25%+1 stake in the 10 bids. The government established the basic criteria for estimating the bids on which 5 bidders were selected and the short choice was entered by MOL, OMV and Rosneft. A tip was established for the privatisation of INA made by Ivica Racan, Goran Granić, Slavko Linić, Radimir Cačić, Ljubo Jurčić, Bozo Kovacevic and Željko Pecek. In the process of negotiations conducted by Economy Minister Ljubo Jurcic, the MOL was selected, which paid 25%+1 of the stake 505 million US dollars. The sale of 25%+1 of shares was reported by the Croatian Parliament, which accepted the report with 81 votes, and the contracts were made public. The Share Agreement set out the relationship between the Management Board and the INA Supervisory Board to regulate the position of employees through the social non-payment clause of dividends and retained issues. By transferring 7% of the shares to the Defence Fund, selling 7% of the shares to current and former employees, and 17% to the public offering, and after that, MOL made 47.16% of the shares of the INA voluntary takeover offer. The first amendment to the share agreement was made in April 2007 and the government amended the provision for MOL to necessarily lead all activities through INA-E operations. This enables MOL to buy Tifon and on the market on which INA operates to become a competitor in oil retailing. The government did not report privatisation proceedings after 2003. In February 2008. The government established a commission to amend and supplement the shares contract made up of Damir Polancec, Ivan Šuker, Igor Lučić, Vedran Duvnjak and Drazen Bosnjak. In a report to the Croatian government, Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec notes that Croatia has less than 50% of the INA shares that have obtained the conditions for amending the share agreement, and reports on the separation and takeover of the gas business. However, Article 13(2) of the 2003 Treaty defines the duration of the contract as long as one of the partners holds 25% + one share. At the time of the start of the process of amending the MOL share agreement, 47 and 49% of the shares of the INA are owned. The same contract defines the relationship in the management and the INA Supervisory Board and only occurs when the MOL acquires more than 50% of the shares. By amending the MOL stock agreement, it provided a majority of management and supervisory board, although there are no more than 50% of the INA shares. The Commission specifically analysed the provisions of the so-called share agreement. withheld questions. These are decisions which the Management Board cannot make without the consent of the Supervisory Board, and the Supervisory Board must take them by consensus, and must vote for them at least 1 member of the INA Supervisory Board representing the minority owner. I'm just going to brief some of those decisions here. When MOL owned 255 + one share, it was necessary to agree on the following issues. Insurance on property, claim or issue guarantees, sale, lease, transfer or other availability of assets over 80 million kuna in one year, issue of securities above 80 million kuna, lending or advances of more than 80 million kuna or 200 million in one year, lending or acquisition of advances or loans above 200 million kuna, acquisition of real estate above 80 million kuna, and on the annual budget, business plan and capital expenditure above 10% of the annual budget. Today, when Croatia has 44% of the shares, it should agree on the following issues, a new debt above 60%, debt and capital ratios in society, sale, lease, exchange, transfer or other availability of assets above 5% of the long-term assets and 10% of the assets available in the current financial year. A lower value than this, therefore below 5% and 10%, respectively, when in the opinion of the administration it is relevant for business. This should indicate that this one is questionable because MOL has most of the management. Analysing the arrival of documentation, the members of the commission had shared opinions on the privatisation of the INA of the share agreement and its changes. Part of the committee believes that the sale of 25% + one part of the INA was carried out by the basis of the Privatisation Act, that the procedure was public on several occasions reported by the Assembly, that the final report on the sale of 25% + one share of the Parliament had been accepted, and the transaction contracts were immediately published. The amendments to the share agreement in their opinion were not necessary and the MOL did not acquire more than 50% of the shares but received a majority operational and strategic right of management and that the Croatian Parliament was not reported on these privatisation stages. The second part of the commission considers it already to be a 2003 share agreement. MOL has been left to several management rights, particularly on the basis of retained issues, and that changes are the result of such a contract. For the purpose of calling witnesses, the members of the committee identified the functions of persons to be witnessed by the Prime Minister, the President of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of the INA persons who conducted the negotiations operationally. On this basis, Slavko Linić, Ljubo Jurčić, Tomislav Dragicevic, Ivan Šuker, Damir Polancec, Zoltan Aldott and Ivo Sanader were invited. All I'm going to do is bring out the main testimonies from the testimony. The first was testified by Slavko Linic, Deputy Prime Minister and the chairman of the Supervisory Board at the time of the sale of 25% + one share. He estimated that in the beginning of 2000 INA’s operations were bad, that it was inequitable and predicated in non-payment of liabilities to the state budget and suppliers. The government's priority and supervisory committee was to stop the loss and settlement of the price of oil products on the Croatian market, by establishing a formula for the calculation of fuel prices. He started the process of restructuring, detachment of secondary activities, transport of oil and gas and training of oil production and processing and the INA team is qualified for privatisation. The decision to sell 25% + one share is based on the need for high investment in production, i.e. the modernisation of refineries and oil and gas research and the expansion of the market to Southeast Europe, which was not possible with the existing technology. At the same time, the state invested in the restructuring of shipbuilding and agriculture from the state budget and decided that it needed a strategic partner for further development for INA. This is why the INA has been working on a medium-term development plan, which was an essential condition for selecting a strategic partner. The witness confirmed that there was no market assessment of the value of the INA because all estimates said it would be lower than the bookable core capital of 9 billion kuna. He pointed out that the whole process was conducted very transparently, as insisted by the then Prime Minister who was also head of the Privatisation Council and reported on several occasions in the privatisation process by the Croatian Parliament. The opinion is that the contract with MOL was good because at the price of 505 million US dollars, they agreed on a social clause for workers, that the INA's profit remains in society, which was particularly important because INA achieved 2 billion kuna in 2002. Ljubo Jurcic, then Minister of Economy, was operating in talks on the sale of 25% plus one share. The witness confirmed that all political decisions were made by the government and were prepared by the advice and as economy minister, he was operating in talks with bidders. In this respect, the criteria for estimating offers which were different and difficult to compare have been established. Therefore, it was necessary to negotiate with each of the tenderers in order to enable all interested parties to offer the same content of the contract. He removed the claim that MOL had been favoured in a way that offered him more than other bidders through retained issues, and their content was established in accordance with business practice because the strategic partner must have an impact on the possible debt, the sale of assets, the giving of guarantees and the like. Since the Croatian side had a majority in the management and supervisory board, it believes it could have a significant impact on the INA's business. The witness expressed his opinion that in 2003 INA's business was not a reason for privatisation but a need to ensure the development and rise of the value of the company through the introduction of a strategic partner in the ownership of INA. The witness confirmed that all bidders had the same contract text and could not determine the amount paid to consultants, but confirmed that they were selected by tender and the amount can be determined in the accounts. Tomislav Dragicevic, acting president of the INA Board. The witness confirmed that, in terms of retained issues, MOL did not use contract law because they had jointly decided on all issues. He also stated that INA had business problems in 2008, especially with payment of its liabilities because it was in charge of large investment operations. He confirmed that INA owed more than 2 billion kuna to the state, but that it was not the decision of the administration but had been tolerated, so he believes such an agreement was reached by the administration. With the arrival of Minister Shuker, according to his testimony, at the head of the Supervisory Board, this problem has been solved. Ivan Shuker, acting president of the INA Supervisory Board. The witness stated that the 2003 share agreement, through the definition of retained issues to MOL, was given major management rights, and this was also the basis for amending the share agreement. He stated that only in 2005 was a plan for modernising the refinery, and only then could it be approached by investments in the Sisak Refinery and Rijeka Refinery. For not paying obligations for highway and road charges in the fuel price, he said that such a procedure had not been tolerated, and when he learned for a long time he took measures to collect a solution and to calculate tight interest. On the amendment of the Dionysus Treaty and the Gas Business Treaty, the witness said that although he was a member of the commission in his work he did not participate because of other obligations. He stated that the state budget was being drawn up, but on the basis of a report by the Minister of Economy at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, he voted in favour of their acceptance. Damir Polancec was also chairman of the Supervisory Board, and he also conducted operational negotiations. For the purposes of amending the Dionysus Treaty, it explained the elements set out in the 2003 contract by the provision of Article 10 of the Treaty. The INA privatisation law and the fact that MOL invested more than 3 billion euros in INA. He stated that in 2008 INA was in serious business problems, indifference and high losses. The situation in INA was considered a prerogative. He also stated that the commission had met two or three times, and that he had reported on all phases of negotiations with MOL representatives on several occasions the Prime Minister, the HDZ Presidency and the Government, and, on the basis of the government's suggestion, gave the Treaty on Gas Management to Minister Šuker, Minister Matulović-Dropulic and the Government's Office for Law. Only when there were no objections to the provisions of the treaty were they included in the agenda of the government's meetings and decided on them. Zoltan Aldott, current president of the INA Administration. The witness confirmed that in 2008, INA had serious problems in business that reflected in non-payment and, among other things, state spending. The problem was the payout, so MOL intervened with financial loans. In his view, this situation stemmed from an economic crisis and also from high investment financed by loans. At that time, MOL was included in the financing because the completion of the investment could no longer wait, and INA could not get new loans. He confirmed that MOL does not object to the withdrawal of the designation of secrecy of the gas business contract, except for the provision relating to the calculation of the gas price, which was also reported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 20 July 2010. Ivo Sanader, at the time of the Prime Minister. The witness confirmed that the government often discussed INA's business and privatisation. He is aware that the privatisation of the INA was not reported by the Croatian Parliament, but he did not state the reasons why it did not appear. He was aware of INA's bad business in 2008, but in his opinion it is due to the economic crisis, the price of oil and other conditions. He denied there was an agreement on INA's non-payment of commitments to the state. For the purposes of amending the Dionic Treaty, it shall state in the decisions of the 2003 contract, in particular because of the termination of the so-called ‘Dionic Treaty’. The lock-up period during which MOL could not dispose of the INA shares without the government's consent. He confirmed that amendments to the Dionysus Treaty and the Gas Business Treaty were under discussion at the HDZ Presidency, the Government and with coalition partners. He described the way of working and making decisions at government meetings and expressed his opinion that all members of the government were familiar with the matter they had decided on. He confirmed that Damir Polancec, as the government negotiator, had been given guidelines, that Minister Šuker and Minister Matulović-Dropulic were involved in the process of drawing up the gas business contract, and that at his proposal, the deputy prime minister of the government that replaced him, Jadranka Kosor, was to take part in meetings on negotiations in the event of disagreements. He confirmed that the initiative to amend the Dionysus Treaty and the Gas Business Treaty was proposed by the Ministry of Economy. The reason for the takeover of the gas business and the purchase of the warehouse Okolje explained the need for energy security and independence and assessed that the gas business contract is good for the Republic of Croatia. Most of the votes, the investigation committee refused to call on the testimony of Jadranka Kosor, Prime Minister and Olgica Spevec, director of the Competition Protection Agency. At the request of the attorney general, phonograms of the INA privatisation process were submitted to the State's attorney. When deciding on the conclusions, the Commission's findings were discussed in two groups of conclusions. The conclusions proposed by Zlatko Koračević, Josip Leko, Gordan Maras and Dragica Zgrebec did not receive a sufficient number of votes, with the report as an isolated opinion. In this separate opinion, 11 proposals or conclusions were made: 1. The sale of 25%+1 shares is based on the INA privatisation law. All procedures have been conducted publicly. The executed transaction was reported by the Croatian Parliament, which accepted the information, and Ina-related contracts were publicly published. 2. The Presidents of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of the INA established that MOL had not applied veto rights to decisions relating to retained issues. 3. The Government of the Republic of Croatia in the short period 2004/2007. implements further privatisation phases of the INA established by the Privatisation Act and enable MOL to make 47.16% of shares available by voluntary offer of takeover. 4th amending Article 921 of the obligation of a strategic investor from the Treaty on the Relations of Shareholders of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has enabled MOL to buy Tifon, thereby allowing MOL in Croatia to become a competitor of the INA and retail oil derivatives. 5. The Government did not comply with Article 11. The INA privatisation law was reported by the Croatian Parliament after 2003, in violation of the INA Privatisation Act. 6. Amendments to the Treaty on the Relations of Shareholders are not subject to the 2003 agreement and changes in the composition of the Management and Supervisory Board, i.e. the contents of the retained issues were to the detriment of the Republic of Croatia because MOL is not the majority owner of the INA. The 7th management and supervision of INA from 2004 to 2009 was not effective, resulting in poor business results, high debt, including over 2 billion kunas of unpaid liabilities to the state budget. 8. The separation of gas operations from INA is harmful for the Republic of Croatia because it takes the negative effects of the purchase and sale price, and INA remains one of the gas suppliers exploited in domestic gas fields. The purchase of a warehouse around Plinacro, along with a state guarantee, has charged 100 million US dollars, thus improving the liquidity of INA, instead of investing those funds in a new gas storage facility, as Croatia lacks storage capacity and thus endangers gas security. 9. The Government is obliged to initiate the process of amending the first amendment and supplementing the Treaty on the Relations of Shareholders in the section relating to management rights and retained issues, in particular provisions governing the availability of INA assets. On 10th, it is proposed that the collected documentation, testimony of the witness delivery to the State's attorney's office, and that the State's Attorney's Office be informed within 90 days of the Croatian Assembly of the measures taken. Most of the votes of the Committee, the Committee proposes the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. They're also a little bit broader, and I'm just going to read these ten conclusions for a while. The 2003 Agreement on the Interrelationships of Shareholders was concluded contrary to the INA Privatisation Act where it was granted to MOL through the granting of major management rights. Secondly, obtaining a member of the Finance Authority, and later investment is not offered to other bidders, which favoured MOL. Thirdly, contrary to good business practices and established business practice, the decision to sell 25% plus one INA share was made without an adequate assessment of the company's market value. Fourthly, elections and the conclusion of contracts with consultants in the first privatisation process have not been conducted transparently and the interests of the Republic of Croatia have not been protected. Fifthly, Mr Linic and Jurcic's statements on the sale of INA shares due to the difficult situation in public finances and the Croatian economy are in conflict with their statement of an extremely good situation and economic growth at the end of the government's mandate. The sixth, the transfer of shares to the Defence Fund, sales to current and former employees, the sale process with the initial offer of shares was conducted in a transparent manner and in accordance with the Privatisation Act of the INA. Seven, after 2003. The government did not sell shares to MOL, but it acquired them on the capital market. Eight, changes to the share agreement are conditional on the 2003 contract and, through changes to the detained issues, the Republic of Croatia has not been brought into an unequal position. The ninth, the gas business contract is conditional on the restrictions set by the 2003 contract. And the tenth, negotiations on amending the share agreement and the gas business contract after the 2nd session of the Commission continued to lead the Deputy Prime Minister in co-operation with legal adviser Markovic and Pliso, and a decision was taken at the cabinet meeting on the basis of the government vice-president's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64181	Thank you very much. We heard the President of the Committee. And we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam President of the Committee, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposed conclusions of the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of INA, INA's oil industry d.d. and all contracts and additions of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic partner of the MOL, for the reasons we consider that, after having been made aware of the documentation and hearings of the witnesses, the proposed conclusions respond to the questions identified, whose request for an answer has been given in the jurisdiction of this Research Commission and give an accurate and true picture of the course of privatisation of the INA. Namely, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports these views of the Commission and above all because what is found is both from the attached documentation, the reading of the contract, and so from the testimony of witnesses when their statements are compared and drawn conclusions from each other. Therefore, the purchase contract of shares relating to the sale of 25% plus one share of INA's INA share capital from 2003, on 17 July 2003, resulted in the conclusion that it was against the INA Privatisation Act of the oil industry d.d. "The People's Journal" 32/2002. as well as the basic criteria for the evaluation of the tenders received in the process of selling 25% plus one of the INA shares. In fact, the Privatisation Act of the INA and this decision of the Government on basic evaluation criteria are allowed only to sell 25% plus one part of the INA with the corresponding rights as defined by the Company Act and how many rights are derived from such a ownership package. However, it was interesting to analyse these contracts that in contracts concluded on the same day between the same contractors on the same fact and legal basis, in fact, from one contract the seller and the buyer, in the second contract turned into a strategic investor, so it turned out that the strategic investor had actually received such a paper status without actually investing anything that was common, if someone was a strategic partner, that it was also investing and that it was visible and binding on it. So it was a clean sale, yes, but I would say that the strategic partner has become one way, that he was given this right and without a swear paid for it, so in the agreement on mutual relations, this now strategic partner who can really be lucky that he became a strategic partner in a way that he was given nothing, that his management rights would be appropriate to the strategic partner, but that he paid nothing for it. In this case, it is generally agreed that for such a package it is managed to increase the price, the estimated price by 20%, which, of course, is not paid or charged. What's this about? According to the Company Act, around 27 provisions give some right to members of society who have 25% of capital plus one share. Why? That they can also influence those decisions that are prescribed to be made with 75% of the capital. In this agreement, as it is concluded in mutual relations, 19 more issues remain, so issues on which the Supervisory Board neither administration nor the Supervisory Board, consisting of 7 to 2 in favour of the Republic of Croatia, which is logical in view of the then percentage of ownership held by the Republic of Croatia, cannot therefore be made any more important decision without the consent of that now strategic partner who has only 25% plus one share. What was shown by the participants of this 2003 sale to the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Government at the time, that, in fact, throughout the entire duration of this contract, the strategic partner did not use this veto right, of course it was entirely irrelevant to this matter, namely the possibility that this contract gave him great opportunities, a great impact on any further decisions during INA's business, because of course those who made decisions when they agreed on those decisions had been kept in mind that the holder of 25% plus one could always veto a different decision. What we also see by reading the records and this report of the commission is actually that, and even the testimony differs, so that the Commission never obtained an insight into the tender documentation, so the text of the invitation to tender, in order to clearly determine what was actually being sold in 2003. Namely, according to one witness's statement, there was only 25% of the capital sold plus one share, but the testimony of the other witness was that it was negotiated and negotiated, traded, so here we were, there were all kind of handsome vehement expressions, that it was traded, kept secret from one of the others, and that ultimately all of this resulted in that price that we now heard that it was sold. So we still don't know if the management rights are additionally paid and where the money is from these management rights, or whether it's INA and 2003. 25% plus one INA stock sold for this price, and management rights were gratis. This has not been fully established, and it is therefore concluded that, in fact, in 2003, there was an advantage to MOL, mainly because it is also not visible and it is not fully established at which point the bidders knew what was being offered to them and what everything they could get for that particular price. We also think that this first privatisation was not carried out in a transparent manner, and the question is how useful this first privatisation was at all, that is to say, it was certainly harmful for Croatia, that the more we heard from the witnesses' statements that at the time of the sale INA was therefore a stable company, restructured, on the market of a well-being, and none, as we heard from the president, any assessment of the market value of the INA was made, although we had knowledge, or we have knowledge that some assessments were made, but on multiple questions were not responsible and we never came to the data whether it was an assessment, and how it was. So from what I would say is the main element and the main indicator for the decision to sell and why something will be sold, any entity is, of course, an assessment of the value of the company, but it was never seen from the data left. It is therefore found that this part of the capital, the underlying capital of the INA was sold according to book value. We all who used to work in the economy, and have met with which estimates we know very well what book value is and what is market value. Of course, we don't always prejudge that it has to be bigger, it can be smaller or bigger, but it would certainly be a good indicator and then we would know what we're talking about. Also another non-transparent situation from that privatisation in 2003 is the conclusion of a contract with consultants and the suggestion of consultants. In spite of the government's conclusion and the establishment of 10 main criteria for the sale of INA, which other than the situations discussed, therefore the retention of profits, insurance of workers, etc., reiterates a strict provision on the sale of 25% plus 1 share, and here the Government points to recommendations from consultants that have been engaged. The government's commission is also calling for recommendations from consultants, but we could never get written proposals from anyone from those consultants for which the amount of money was paid for which we also don't know exactly what they are because we've never, ever received them from, and we haven't seen them. So, from all that we can believe that all later actions were limited by the conclusion of this first contract which, according to our assessment, was not good at the time for the Republic of Croatia. I do not doubt that privatisation may not have had to go, but of course in a way that maximum protection of interests then the Republic of Croatia can be said that this privatisation was conducted without respect for deeper relations when negotiating with a strategic partner, and there is also not enough labing, analysis, and neither did I say the opinions of consulting companies that would, or consultants who were engaged. Therefore, the further privatisation process after the 2003 coalition government took place, both in the continuity of a country, was based on the 2002 Privatisation Act. The transfer of shares according to the law was carried out on the basis of a decision to transfer 7% of shares to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War without compensation with the consent of the Croatian Parliament. The actions carried out on the transfer of shares show that the defenders have benefited and directly linked to the transfer of shares to the Croatian Defence Fund and the realisation of the sale of MOL shares when it announced a public call. As regards the further procedure for the implementation of the public offering, also in accordance with the provisions of the Privatisation Act, we can conclude that public sales have been carried out in a transparent manner, in which expert analyses, clear and transparent treatment has been conducted in terms of the determination of all elements relating to the expertise of financial advisers. The Commission led in a transparent manner this procedure and ultimately resulted in a successful INA share in the domestic and foreign markets. They mainly bought these shares of Croatian citizens who made contributions within a short period of time from the transaction. As for the sale of shares to current and former employees, it was also implemented in accordance with the Privatisation Act. What should be pointed out is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not sold any shares to MOL, and the process by which MOL bought shares has taken place in accordance with the regulations governing the capital market and also in everything in accordance with the regulations, i.e. the Privatisation Act of the INA, which in that sense did not impose any prohibition or fence, and each of the shareholders of the shares could freely dispose of them. As regards the first amendments and additions to the Treaty on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia and MOL, it is also necessary to stress here, as I said, that all further procedures and any further relations between the Republic of Croatia and MOL are, as I say, subject to the first contract given to MOL by inappropriate management rights which did not stem from the capital property. As MOL gained in the meantime, so more than 25% plus 1 share, as the RH with ownership dropped below 50%, and in accordance with the Privatisation Act, it was then in some way disabling that control over the INA's business that it had when it was legally owned by over 50%, or 50% and over 50%, respectively, since that contract talked about management relations when one partner had 25% plus 1 share and about the relations that occur when one partner had over 50% ownership. Of course, that the partner who had such a great veto right, and given some other circumstances about the gas business that I will not be able to say anything about now, but later in an individual debate, so the gas business that was already being discussed in 2001 when the privatisation of INA started to be debated and when certain consultants suggested that gas business should be considered as part of the privatisation of the INA and when and when the customers were looking for a guarantee in which time the gas would reach the market price. Therefore, taking into account all these circumstances, an amendment to the contract has been made in a way that protects the interests of the Republic of Croatia in a way that is neither less or more vulnerable than those of the Republic of Croatia when it owned more than 50%, but unfortunately did not enjoy the full part of the ownership rights because it was unlawfully and needlessly limited by too many rights given to the strategic partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64183	Thank you, colleague Lovrin. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, I will look back at one final part of the presentation of my colleague Lovrin on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, which is that there is nothing at risk of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia in the issues of the change between the share agreement in relation to the first provisions concerning the relations between Mol and the Government. It is amazing that someone from this pay phone determines when it is clear from the documents that this modified force amongst the stock agreement shows that MOL can sell 10% of the company every year without any influence from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, in practice, 10 years of INA's consciousness to a minimum in a way that the company ceases to exist, and that was not mentioned at all in the first provisions of the Inter-Partic contract and that is to say that in this way protecting the interest of the Republic of Croatia seems unserious. Unfortunately, and this debate that HDZ has now presented here is only saying one thing, whatever happened in that entire privatisation in whatever way it was conducted, which documents were presented the truth will be the one that HDZ wants here in this House to vote, most of its hands. No matter what is real or what is established on the Committee. If we had determined on the Committee that the sun was not coming up at 8 a.m., HDZ would have determined that conclusion here at this session. Unfortunately, it is so, the facts, the arguments, what is said on the Committee are not worth it, but it is worth what belongs to HDZ and coalition partners to vote in this Assembly. And whatever's established, I'll try to sublime here. We have established the Commission to determine whether the management rights have changed to the damage of the Republic of Croatia since the relationship in the MOL and which has the Government of the Republic of Croatia is insignificant there is only 2% difference in value that the Republic of Croatia has, is about 45% and 47% has MOL and whether this is the proportion of what it says in the inter-partisan contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Mol signed by the HDZ Government. The fact is that the HDZ government has signed that MOL can manage the company autonomously in the way it wants, and only 2% more shares there, it's signed by the HDZ government by giving the MOL a crucial vote in the management of society, and that's how we don't say it here from the SDP, but is recognised by the Hungarian Stock Exchange which shows a consolidated INA report within the MOL Group, it could never do that that MOL doesn't have 100% management rights. It is a fact of a colleague and colleagues who are determined by someone neutral, relevant, Hungarian Stock Exchange in Budapest where MOL is listed. And now you can claim as much as you wish you hadn't given rights when it's obvious as if it was a day, you can't say that at 8:00 a.m. it's dark when the sun comes up. And that's what you're going to try to explain to Croatian citizens here. On the other hand, which is why the gas business has been taken over, which is why we decided to take on the huge losses incurred by the gas business, the import price of gas and the sale on the Croatian market, on the other hand to buy a gas warehouse around the INA in some way instead of building a new storage facility and thus protecting the Croatian interest, and finally we gave INA that now that the Hungarian owner has received absolute management rights to use and to exploit Croatian gas fields for a longer period of time when it is known that 2/3 of gas is needed, Croatian needs are produced in Croatia, and at a price lower than it is imported. Some estimates are that the price of the cubic gas is below 1 kuna. The gas is now being sold at a higher price, someone earns profits, and we, not us, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave it to him, and that is the question of whether our country's interest was being protected, and the energy and these resources that I now mention are absolutely the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, and yet you will explain that it was in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and that the gas business is conditioned with the work of the Government from 2003, only one who can believe it when you tell him that the morning is not the sun but the nightfalls. But unfortunately, these are very few in Croatia, so as little as Mrs Lovrin has tried, it doesn't sound very convincing. I'd also like to mention witness testimony here and everything we've heard on the Committee that's in a lot of contradictions. Witnesses who testified about the privatisation process in 2003 agreed less, followed the procedure, the Law was all done transparently, and even those who mentioned it and participated in the government after 2003 said the same thing, so it was done the way the Law prescribed. But when the second part of the privatisation started to be discussed, there were some contradictory statements, so they came forward to yesterday's government counterparts, one Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Polancec, and one of the finance ministers who should have been closest to that privatisation process and made statements that were contradictory. One said that everyone knew what it was all about, that it was agreed not to mention now the circumstances at the HDZ presidency's meetings included all the ministers, the whole government, more than once discussed the amendments to the Agreement between MOL and the Government, while on the other hand the current Minister Schuker said that it was not true that he only saw the document when he came to the cabinet meeting and then raised his hand. In some ways he discredited the government's work because he admitted on such an important issue if what he was saying is true, it is in contradiction with Polancec, if that is true, he admitted that they are totally without analysis, unresponsibly and irresponsiblely making decisions in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the opinion of many is the same as mine personally who participated in the Committee that Mr. Polancec was telling the truth, not Mr. Shucker, and it is difficult then to accept Mrs. Kosor's analysis that they were both telling the truth but only in one different way. And it wouldn't be any dispute, if Mr. Shucker, as Mr. Polancec said and now Mrs. Lovrin, had it been in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. These provisions that we later changed in agreement with MOL and I am talking about what provisions were in the interest of the Republic of Croatia or we have protected the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Only then is the question why Mr. Shucker's hands and feet then struggled to say that he didn't know what he had decided and that he wasn't involved in it. It is amazing that someone who participates in the Government of the Republic of Croatia knows that these decisions are in the interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of our country to try so hard to explain that he did not participate. There is a small question of the credibility of the whole process, and of the people who participated in it. Unfortunately, our opinion is what most Croatian citizens have, and that is that this interest of the Republic of Croatia was not protected because, as I said, we took over the gas business which, when the Croatian budget is finished, will cost a lot and on the other hand, we allowed MOL to manage the company with only 2% more ownership, absolutely with 100% management rights. Finally, MOL treats the company as if it were his, and as if the Croatian partner had absolutely no rights in it. When we talk about what has been concluded and what the members of the committee who participated in front of me, I would say opposition, i.e. SDP, to the HNS in the commission's work. We have suggested conclusions based on what we think is a fact that can be found in this document who wants to read it and who wants to pay a little more attention to witness statements and the question can be concluded. So what is irrefutable is that the sale of the first part means 25% plus one part of the INA sold in accordance with the INA Privatisation Act that the proceedings were conducted publicly. Everything Mrs Lovrin talked about about about the price rights for the conclusion of these contracts were presented here at the Croatian Parliament, all who should have been informed about it were informed. On the other hand, the price is mentioned. 505 million dollars that has been achieved, whether it's high or small, I absolutely think that since it's achieved in the contest that it reflects what it could get for that amount of stock. But I'm going to compose the current stock price with that one. The price of 505 million dollars for 25% plus one share was about a thousand and 350 kuna at that time. When INA was sold when MOL made a public offer, he offered 2 thousand 800 kuna. When we compose Crobex or the value ratio of shares for the Zagreb Stock Exchange from 2003 and 2008. Crobex is 2.3 times bigger than he was back then. And the price that the coalition government then achieved is about 20% higher than MOL made in 2008. Now, that says enough about whether the price was low or high, because MOL 20% higher price then paid for 25% plus one share, so that it can't get profit out of the company for the next 5 years, so it can't just participate in investments and invest money that was agreed between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and MOL and because it can't fire people but it still needs to be employed. So he invested 20% more money in 2003 for the stock, for the investment, for the non-deprivement of profits than he paid in 2008 when HDZ gave him absolute control over the company. Well, now anyone who wants to listen to those facts can figure out if the price was less than that in 2003 than in 2008. It was absolutely smaller in 2008 and absolutely MOL got too much management rights for what it owns. Now that we're talking about the government as not participating, they couldn't affect whether MOL will take over the shares or not, or whether it will take over the control package or not. In addition, of course she had to sign a new inter-partisan contract which in itself says she could have influenced, one more thing has to be said that there was no sale of the Croatian Defence Fund 7% headed by Prime Minister Kosor, who directed the privatisation of INA in the MOL direction would not have been all this. So that 7% of the shares sold by the Croatian Defence Fund headed by Mrs. Jadranka Kosor directed the privatisation direction towards MOL and this management rights gave him some sort of cover from those 47% shares. If the Croatian Defence Fund had not sold those shares, MOL would now have 40%, Croatia 44 + 7% over 51% and Croatia would have remained in the position it was in. Unfortunately, for some reason, Mrs Kosor and the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund decided to sell those 7% and in some way hand over management rights and most of the company in MOL's hands. Now we haven't been able to figure out why this happened, because members of the HDZ commission didn't allow Mrs Kosor to be invited to the commission to ask her questions. It is likely that during this debate, she will try to explain what she could do to make it much easier for us. It is seen from all that HDZ directed the privatisation of the INA, it is seen from the documentation and it was recognised by former Prime Minister Sanader that the law was not respected, that the parliament was not reported on the further course of privatisation after 2003. So we have a document that didn't happen because there's no record of the privatisation of INA in the Parliament administration. Former Prime Minister Sanader admitted it on the committee. That's what we all realized. But here's the HDZ here talking for some reason that everything was in accordance with the law. Ha speaks because if it were necessary, they would say that the sun is setting at 8:00 in the morning, not the sun coming up. I'm not boring, I want to show the Croatian citizens very plastically that you will vote here whatever you like, not what's true. You understand that's what this is about. And unfortunately, what is evident is not important, it is important what fits HDZ and coalition partners. We have offered our conclusions, they are based on what the commission has been doing and I can tell from this pay phone that when the SDP comes into the position that it will initiate the negotiation process on the modification of the inter-worker's contract between the MOL and the Government of the Republic of Croatia where these harmful things that you gentlemen have installed will try to change and in this way we will try to protect Croatian interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64185	We have two corrections. First of all, colleague Salapic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64186	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would correct Mr. Maras' incorrect claim that we were not interested in facts and arguments in the HDZ commission when it comes to INA. I was sincerely told after six months of cooperation with the gentleman expected a much stronger performance of him today, but I'll just say a little bit. HDZ has accepted your SDP proposal on this commission, we expanded it to 2003 because we consider it a key one, and Mr Maras why, because that year is the basis for everything that will happen next year in 2009. That year, 25%+1 of the shares were given too many 14 reserved rights against the Company Act. And now all that you've said, all the arguments are politics. One very important fact, in a closed committee session when we discussed gas business, when there were no cameras and media, the session lasted half an hour, and when there were hundreds of journalists, it lasted three and a half hours. So much for the public's interest in what most people think. And what we're talking about here or not talking about here is a show of SDP, and all that's wrong is going to be said by the State's Attorney after our report we gave here in the Parliament and the Attorney General. That's not what we're afraid of, and you should be afraid of what you did in 2003. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64187	Thank you very much. And colleague Lovrin, rectification of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Maras said the prime minister directed the INA privatisation course towards MOL. That's completely incorrect. Namely, shares of the Croatian Defence Fund were transferred with the consent of the Croatian Parliament, and according to the Privatisation Act adopted by the SDP government and the SDP parliamentary majority in 2002. Of course, those shares were not transferred to the Fund for its own policy but were transferred to earn and collect as much as possible for the benefit of the defenders, for the benefit of the defence children who are being scholarshipd from that money. Of course, the fund, the fund's board of directors, decided when it was most favourable on the financial market, on the capital market to sell its shares, to sell them, from which it benefited precisely for the benefit of the defender and family of the defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64189	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS-HSU Representatives, distinguished colleague Zlatko Koračević. Here you go, fellow Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64190	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this debate, I want to make this opening statement, and about this debate very clearly and loudly, what we all know, and we've been in a situation many times when we all know, but we're talking again. The result of this debate will be the result of the will of the majority. That was on the committee. When we entered with the works, when we set up the commission, we knew it would be, we know it would be today, we know it would be at the vote. Therefore, the whole story does not depend on us in the Croatian Parliament, but I still do not want to lose hope that the institutions that will give their final court do not function in this country. Namely, why the investigative committees are set up, parliamentary. They are based at those times when the institutions of the state do not do their job either in some way or because of something they are prevented from doing their job which is very likely and in this case is an example. Very likely. What I will also begin to underline, a feeling as a member of the investigative committee. A sense of helplessness, because many of the key documents we've been looking for haven't been delivered to us, we haven't received them, but that's why we've got a whole bunch of other documents that are important, but they're measurable, important for this court's adoption, for the analysis of the reconstruction of this whole debauchery. I mean, privatization of INA in step two. And something that was the main one, I mean one thing that got in the public eye, the artistic impression of our members of the commission. Was it an accident that after former Prime Minister Sanader's testimony two or three days, his media article was being discussed, and it was not discussed the facts that the person had just said on the investigation committee, I will mention them later. That's a different story. If we had a Privatisation Commission, Pliva would probably be a different situation now. Very likely. But it wasn't. So I can go back to INA. First of all, just a few facts. The privatisation in 2003 is the fact that the basis of the international tender selected MOL whose bid was 80 million dollars higher than the debt offered and one of the bidders who gave up, was third in the offered price in the first round, but gave up the second round, Russian Rosneft, because the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not guarantee him the acquisition of shares, remaining shares, shares above 25+1. And that's why he gave up. Thirdly, at its session in 18.7.2003, the Croatian Parliament held an extraordinary session, one single item on the agenda was the INA Privatisation Report, conducted by the privatisation process of INA. The phonogram from that session shows that all clubs have discussed the report, but there is one that has not discussed the report. Neither club nor, not even representatives from that club, no one. Because the representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community left that day, not that they didn't come to the session, they came to the session but when the debate started, they left. Why? And now I'm surprised by this ex-post mind at a moment in time after seven years that all observed irregularities now after seven years, that there was no willingness and courage, I won't say the knowledge that this is being discussed at that session when it was being debated. And the Croatian Parliament is the only place that could at that time cancel all activities in the privatisation process of the INA. All irregularities could be resolved right at that session, however, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, you left the session. You didn't take part in the debate at all. This is about transparency and accountability towards national goods discussed at an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. What did we learn at the Committee of Investigation session? I'll just mention some things, which is that Minister Schucker voted on the contract proposal as a member of the Committee for the Making of a New Sharer's Contract in a way that he didn't know what he was voting on. We learned that in the text, the intentions defined by the change between the stock agreement were informed and Shuker, the entire HDZ presidency was informed in one photographic way by the former Deputy Prime Minister Polancec explained this to us on the Investigative Commission. So, someone's lying. We learned that the entire process included the then Deputy Prime Minister, today's Prime Minister. And that's what we found out. Therefore, we learned that the whole process of regulating the relationship between the Croatian state and the Hungarian partner in INA that everyone knew about the procedure. What's the change between the stock deal? It came the way, I think the argument is because the Hungarians came to, the MOL came to 48%. How did MOL get to 48%? In a way that through the financial market, the stock market is focused on the defence fund, that the voter's mood has been bought because the IPO, the initial offer made right before the 2007 parliamentary elections, where citizens are absolutely safe and everyone who did this is making money – thank you to the state. But those stocks are also directed towards the stock market, both towards MOL and as employees' shares. And we came to the point that MOL came into a position that 48% of the contract signed by the Government of Croatia with MOL, that MOL has a greater right, that MOL with 48% has more rights than we do in privatisation in 2003 when the relationship was quite different. How to explain that the Republic of Croatia with its 45% ownership compared to the MOL 48% does not have the same right, because now it is minority, but what MOL had when it had 25 plus 1. How do you explain that? Very hard. The logic of reason, the logic of mathematics, the logic of good master's attention is extremely difficult to explain. But also one fact, in fact two to me very significant, doesn't have to mean they're crucial, but they're very significant. By 29.10.1908, the chairman of the Supervisory Board was Minister Shuker, then Minister Schuker. All those strategic development plans that were defined by the entry of MOL with 25 plus 1 are not realised. 2004, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth. In 2008, MOL went bankrupt, and INA's almost bankrupt. The chairman of the Supervisory Board was Minister Shuker. What is the function of the Supervisory Board? An act or concrete action, I mean what, management control, what? So regardless of the reserved rights guaranteed to MOL by the 2003 stock agreement, that through the post of chairman of the Supervisory Board, we could influence INA's operations? Given recent, almost bankruptcy in 2008. INA's post as chairman of the Supervisory Board is really questionable. The fact is that in the course of the negotiations and the decisions needed to amend the agreement between the shareholders that at one point the Government of the Republic of Croatia had removed or more gently withdrawn from the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Minister Shuker and appointed then Deputy Prime Minister Polancec. And the fact that the contract was signed and the whole process was completed that both Polancec and the returned Shuker, who is still the chairman of the Supervisory Board today, had been relocated. That's a fact. It's the facts. Here are the dates totally agreeing, so the question is, why? Was there a reason? Why did Shuker get away at the moment when things were happening that were related to the changes between the shareholders' contracts. Third. As a financial advisor in the second phase of privatisation, Mary Linch was introduced as one of them, but Mary Linch was in charge. As a adviser to the government in negotiations with MOL on the change between the stock exchange agreement, Markovic, engaged by the government, was a lawyer. Is it by any chance that the entry into Podravka was first with Mary Lincha's credit, is it by chance that at one point as director of the firm in Malta where the shares of Podravka were deposited and financed by Mary Lincha's loan appear exactly that lawyer Marković, who in privatisation with MOL, protects the interests of the government, in privatising or taking over Podravka protects the interests of individual shareholders, which is, I hope, to be resolved in a court procedure. So I see that time is running out, and it's over. My colleagues and colleagues, regardless of the impression the Commission has made, the fact that during the work of this Research Commission we have come up with very clear information and confirmed new information, confirmed the information of those who know each other and those who know each other. When I was appointed as a member of the Investigative Commission, I knew that we would not, that we would end up in the way that it would end, but I simply want to believe that the institutions of the State, from the State Attorney's Office above all, the Competition Agency, the HANFA, and a whole series of institutions that could react at any moment and did not react, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would get the information that belongs to them, and that the real truth would come out, why INA was extradited, literally extradited, or how to justify a meeting in the centre of HDZ between former Prime Minister Sanader, some members of the current government, the former government, and the key man of MOL. Why in the middle of the HDZ? After the affair of Spice and Podravka broke out. How do you explain that? And related to the gas business, it is unfortunate that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has removed the designation of secrecy, the last day of work of the Investigation Commission, on 12.9., the Government of the Republic of Croatia removed the secret sign from the gas business contract, and the fact and it is evident that today the Government has not found a way out of something that the previous Government has made extraordinary... for the Republic of Croatia, a row of 3 billion, with an uncertain ending and ending of the whole deal, because we lost gas independence besides oil independence. [[You don't understand.]] We lost her, colleagues and colleagues, we don't have her anymore. We gave it away. I am still a member of the Investigative Commission and on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired I hope to reason, hope responsibility and that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will get an answer as to why and why INA and the crown of all who received the money for the management premium to manage someone with company, and there is no majority stake in this company, and MOL has no majority stake and the company is handed over to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64191	Thank you very much. Correction of the quote, Mr. Beus Richembergh, Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64192	Well, I'd like to actually correct one, not to say incorrect, but incomplete, so that's not enough, and that's what my colleague Koračević said that thanks to the testimonies before the investigation committee we found out that Mr. Schuker voted for something he didn't even read. Not only that, but we found out indirectly that Mr. Schucker gave the INA leader a hint that he wasn't paying the excise charge, so there was a debt greater than a billion kuna. In a normal state, any minister of that kind would have resigned a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64193	And you haven't fixed anything, pal. Whether it's a wink or not with one or two eyes, it's a commission to work without us being held in the commission, and then in the evening when the doctor and I go to Podravina, we don't know how to pray to God, whether we're looking after Hungarian or Hungarian. Let's move on with the clubs. Dear colleague Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64194	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, a few colleagues and fellow MPs. Although this topic in the public has caused a great deal of attention, in the media even bigger, here are the witnesses of some calm I would say this afternoon in the Croatian Parliament when we are considering the report on the work of the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of INA, and all contracts and additions of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic partner MOL Hungarian Oil, etc. I'd say the basis of this debate that's been conducted so far, and it seems so conflicting though that crows don't dig their eyes. The independence of the oil and gas republic of Croatia has been lost, according to a colleague, Koračević here has taken the money for these things, for the management rights, and it is illogical, so it is entirely unsatisfactory for someone who does not have a majority package of shares and that is, I guess I think that the reality in the world is that he has management rights. I'm not an economist but I also know how to count in my household who's the boss and who's running any household, anything else, clearly whoever has the majority of the money or any other share. But here's where we can do anything. In this country you can do anything and then it was tragic to watch almost I would say television transmission, an examination of a crown witness called Ivo Sanader, who, therefore, with knowledge I would say to the surprise dominates, I would say dominates both the answers and the facts of the questions, the content of the questions of the members of the Investigative Commission. It was sad to see someone in the Investigative Commission, gentlemen, or not or knowing how to ask the right questions, and the answers weren't who they were. I've read a book, since I was a high school kid, where when President Kennedy was killed, it was called "Anatomies of an assassination." That book describes the assassination of President John Fitzgerald Kennedy. That book has a thousand and 200 pages, and I was able to read it without knowing anything in the end. I didn't get it. Despite the illustrations, the pictures that were there, the photographs that existed there. It seems to me that even after this report that's been made here, there's little to know. I would simply say that INA or the INA leaders who have led this country since 2000, and even those in 2003, and these 2008s, if one had been done, I would say this vividly, suicide from an ambush. So, I speak not literally, but I speak in conveyed meaning. We boasted here that 40% of the oil and gas we have, "we have" under quotes, we from our own sources. Of course there are, above all, wells in the Djeletovci, in Sreme. So there are also gas wells from which Croatia is supplied by 40%. So it was all owned by INA, and today with clear management rights, gentlemen from MOL, that is, this Hungarian firm. It kind of reminds me of that 1868 Croatian-Hungarian settlement, but history is history and we won't touch it, it was. That's why every time I see the name of a strategic partner, it reminds me of that. How strategic when strategically it can be anyone who gives conditions that match both INAs, clearly and to the Croatian state who owned and had management rights over INA. Mr. Koracevic said the INA was extradited, so this oil section and this gas section were extradited. Here's a debate today on this report, I'd say the commission's work was media-accompanied on the cover, on breaking news. The hills were shaking, and after everything the people said, there would be a mouse or actually nothing to say "poor." It won't be anything. It is also mentioned here as "Podravka", Spice is mentioned, and Markovic is mentioned as a certain, etc., some other people are mentioned, and I would say, and, although it is not nice, and some related connection between certain leaders in the companies that I just named so far, it seems that there is much more to hide than money, and in the background of all this, it was a profit and a criminal gain of those who have done damage in this Croatia and acted as pests for this country. There's no upheaval and no explanation of what happened in 2003. It was all there and then and even more in 2008. It's hard, it's hard to share and say the share, the gentlemen of 2003 is so big, and this other part of this unfortunate business is so big. I'm not getting into what your shares are, both SDP and HDZ. But believe me, I don't quote a single number here, but the citizens know well, the citizens know who put all the mustaches and dipped well not the fingers, but the hand is up and over the elbows. And here we're wasting our time, and it's time for an independent jump and an independent DORH to investigate how good it is and to arrest the guilty of this INA suicide from an ambush. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64195	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate because we've exhausted the club applications. The first came from a respected colleague, Goran Maric. Here's my colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Usually, when a person reads at least one text or is at one meeting or has a conversation or learns more, hears something nice, gets smarter, gets a little wiser, has more information, and gets better and gets better. And now, finish the commission's work, so many meetings, so many hours, so many minutes, and I didn't know anything, I didn't learn anything that I didn't know. I regret every second I've spent in the commission's work. When the privatisation of INA is mentioned, I don't think of any beautiful thought that is related to privatisation. And not just the INAs, but a lot of other privatisations. Although one protagonist says from those times that he jumped on the list of hundreds of the richest Croats, he says that the conversion and privatisation of the mother is the savior of Croatia, I can never agree with it because the process of conversion and privatisation has deindustrated Croatia, driven many into retirement forced, and thousands drove to the Employment Service. I can't consider either the savior or the privatisation and the sale of Pliva or INA or the banks, or HT or other companies. The process had the most impact on the height of the Republic of Croatia's debt. The process led to the fact that a few were shamelessly enriched at the expense of Croatia and Croats, taking bread from their mouths. And let no one even try to convince me of the correctness of those decisions and that they were carried out in the national interest or the INA. Let's start in order. The Privatisation Act has been passed, and the government has publicly declared itself to sell INA only if there are at least 3 offers. It sold 25%+1 shares and there were only two offers, we knew that before the Commission worked. Management rights were not for sale, and only shares were for sale by the Privatisation Act. Interpreting that it's logical that someone got the management rights if they own 25%+1 shares are illogical to me. Because at the same time we have a case where the Republic of Croatia owns 49.95% in a hotel company and has no influence whatsoever on management rights. There are no members, no board, no board of directors, and the owner is twice as many as 25. Governance rights are as much as they have ownership structures and do not belong to anyone's management rights, nor are they too given as some say here, not too much, should not be governing rights at all. If someone buys the shares, buys the shares, becomes the owner of the shares, and earns a profit if there is, and the assembly decides who will be the supervisory board and who will be in the administration. It was sold to INA without anyone assessing INA's value, based here and there on some consulting opinions, while ignoring INA's market value, the dynamic value of the assessment was ignored. But they were concerned that consulting companies were engaged and richly rewarded for nothing, and a strategic partner was called a customer because it sounded nice and proud, and it wasn't actually a strategic partner. And imagine, from the very time the bids were collected, it hasn't been 24 hours but the most favourable bidder has been chosen. And it was agreed that the supervisory board would function, that the financial director would be MOL's, and that was all given after choosing the final bidder and I understand the political attitude to defend the privatisation of INA but I will never understand the pride of what has been done. I also support the fight against corruption, the fight against crime, but isn't it strange that no one has ever been responsible for just one sector in Croatia, for the banking sector, for the sector and INE so much has happened there and everything, non-real management, so many losses achieved, no one has answered, there is an example of poor governance, an example of abuse of position. Turns out there's only crime in state-owned companies, and that's not the case. For example, in America 37% of all bankruptcies and the liquidation of private companies is the result of fraud of robbery and crime, it is not less safe in Croatia either. But it turns out that the private sector is immune to crime. Therefore, there is so much unclear in the sale of INA and Pliva as well as all other related, similarly designed privatisations, but when mentioned somewhere in public then it must be prohibited or... So it was thrown out of one show recently that two banks destroyed NAMU and took it into bankruptcy, when such a contribution was made to the show then the contribution was cast out and cannot be heard or seen. I will, of course... the conclusions that the Committee voted on but I remembered probably when Shakespeare wrote Hamlet maybe he thought of the conversion and privatisation in Croatia, when he wrote, "In front of the human eyes, he's going to come up with evil deeds regardless of what the whole country is hiding." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64197	Thank you. We have four replicas. First, my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64198	Thank you very much, Mr. Maric. You said in the debate that shares are being bought without buying rights. Now, if that were true, someone could theoretically buy 75% of the company and therefore not assume that they have the right to run the company, so it's normal that when you buy a control package to get some rights, otherwise it wouldn't make any sense to buy a company control package and you have to have the right to manage those shares. And as for the second part, that in 25% and that the best bidder was selected in 24 hours, so the result of the transparency of the contest, everyone knew the rules, it was clear to everyone what kind of management rights the one who bought would get, and eventually it was necessary to choose who submitted the offer with a higher price. One company filed with 505 million, another with 400, and I really don't need to think for five minutes, not 24 hours. Because 505 is more than 400.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64199	Reply to the replica of counterpart Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64200	Thank you very much. I'm not sure you know the Company Act well, at least from what you just said. Because shares don't really buy management rights, they come true in the congregation of society, and there's a stockholder at the company's congregation with his shares, and there's a law on trade rights that makes decisions in the congregation and how much it affects decisions. So if someone bought like you say 75% of the shares, then they can't have management rights because with 75%, they make almost all decisions in the assembly other than changing the statutes, and that's why they need another share more than 75%. As for your 505 million and what a good offer that was. How good is it? So when we sold the Split Bank for 50 million marks, it was said that it was a great offer, it was not a month ago that the new owner sold for a billion marks. Well, the only thing we can know is if this is a good sale let the MOL now announce the sale of its shares, and market conditions and management positions, and we'll see how much you'll get. I'm saying you'd get at least $2 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64201	Thank you. Next to the replica, a colleague, Matušić, appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Maric made it clear that MOL should not have obtained any management rights when buying 255 + one share indicating that MOL probably paid for the management rights but to whom he paid it I don't know. You explained very well, because management rights were not the subject of sales. We learned from the committee's report that the commission couldn't get the text of the competition, not even the text of the competition. The question is, why? As possible, INA was asked, so apparently one of those who spoke said it existed on the Financial Times pages. So, you didn't even get the text of the contest. Furthermore, there was no contract between INA and MOL, which existed, the third contract that existed and which exists between INA and MOL. Maybe from that contract we can find out who's the real owner of 28 off the INA company abroad that's probably pouring huge money into those 28 companies based on concessions that are also sold. I disagree that Hungarians would get at least 2 billion euros for their stake in INA. I think that would be at least 10 times that. Because if the value of the concession were to be sold abroad, the value of the concession in Egypt, the value of the concessions in Croatia sold together with the INA if they were sold I'm sure the value of the INA would exceed 30 billion euros. Total value of these oil and gas fields. So, everything that was sold along with the INA. Furthermore, the defenders sold themselves, we didn't sell them, but the Defence Fund sold those 7%. That's what you ask the defenders. They estimate that at that point the sale is good. Therefore, the very fact that it remained unclear here why no contract could be obtained between INA and MOL not from the government but from the INA. The government doesn't have a contract between INA and MOL. It is necessary to obtain the text of the invitation to tender and to clarify why INA has not been sold at market value. Was there an assessment of the market value? According to some findings, there seems to have been an estimate of market value in 2003 that far exceeded those estimated 2 billion with which it was sold.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64203	Your time is up. Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64204	Col. Matušić was another assessment of Anderson&Anderson, but there was no way to see how much higher it was than what the price was sold. But it's not just that we didn't get the text of the contest, we didn't get copies of the contract for consulting companies to see what their job was and at what cost they did it. It's undeniable as you said management rights weren't offered, they're contracted with a selected buyer. The OMV had no such offer and if it had the price would have been higher. And all I can say is that by selling INA, many Croatian opportunities have been docked against the Croatian future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64205	Thank you. Comrade Tomljanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, a respected colleague, Maric, would replicate in that part of his debate, which mentioned the estimated value of INA's capital or initial capital before the signing of the contract itself, so before the tendering process and the conclusion of the privatisation contract. In fact, the documents of the commission that I have read clearly indicate that no rights have been created either by UZUS or that this work is an assessment of the value of the underlying capital. That is precisely what literally stands for, and that even the basic criteria in business were not respected. And when an evaluation of the company is carried out, so the company is either sold or privatized. So in this context, I am very interested in what methods this assessment was made, if not according to the rules of the profession itself, and how it could have taken place at all in the process if these basic parameters, the input parameters did not correspond to what was then to be done in terms of the proper assessment of the underlying capital of the INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64207	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64208	Thank you very much. Col. Tomljenović's main starting point for the assessment was accounting value. So there is no company in Croatia whose accounting value corresponds to market value. So we know how the conversion process worked, that the accounting value at the start is less than a few times than the market value. That the book value is 10 times lower than the value of the property that was entered into the company's core capital. And it is undeniable that a completely unequivocal analysis of the value of INA was made prior to sale. And neither the market value nor the dynamic value assessment was made. Well, I personally believe, and you wouldn't sell a used car if you didn't carry out the evaluation, let alone the strategically most valuable company in Croatia that's left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64209	Thank you. It is up to the esteemed colleague Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy. On behalf of the promoter, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64210	Thank you, Vice President. I did not intend to report during the debate but here some questions were raised in replicas, as well as by a member of the commission. In fact, we asked for documentation on privatisation from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government led the privatisation process and it had to deliver all the documentation. On the repeated request for the submission of a particular dossier which was not submitted by the Government under the first list of documents, it gave us the answer that it does not possess such documentation. From contests to I don't know any more there were listed a few documents that she didn't have such documentation. It's a little strange that the government didn't find the documentation that was archived at the Ministry of Economy that ran those affairs. But I have to say one personal opinion now, which means accounting and which means market value. The share capital company that shares the shares has therefore established 9 billion kuna, per 900 kuna one share. So that's the value to go to the stock market with. In 2000, INA did not quote on the stock exchange. Therefore, there was no market value to be confirmed on the market. And it could be, the value was the one someone wanted to pay at that moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64211	Thank you. Comrade Salapic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64212	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I am tonight, six months after our work together, and I would like to make a contribution to this debate in the report of our committee, and about the privatisation of the INA. First of all, I'd like to thank the president for our cooperation. For six months, I was the secretary of this committee. And what I'd like to say is, I'm going to say a little bit of my own personal opinion on the work in all this. There have been many, six months of political work being a lot, a lot of writing in the media, and I believe that we have made a major political and democratic step in the Republic of Croatia because on our commission, when it comes to INA and the sale of INA, both former ministers and former prime ministers of this country and the leaders who took part in the privatisation process of one of the biggest Croatian companies. I would begin my personal opinion with the conclusion that the very intention of setting up this commission was primarily politics. The proposal for the establishment of the commission came at a time when the Republic of Croatia came to the initiative of the State Attorney's Office, and according to our strategy against corruption and organised crime, certain legal cases, certain investigative procedures, investigative actions were launched because the State Attorney's Office considers that the interest of the Republic of Croatia was injured. I believe that at this point in this assembly, first of all from the part of the SDP, one political blow to the Croatian Democratic Community, the Government of the Croatian Democratic Community, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and all of us here in the Croatian Parliament. That's why I have facts and arguments, as Mr. Maras said, that without facts and arguments, we entered this commission and that we stood there and performed six months of nonsense to be eventually declared by a thief by a thief, all thieves. I don't think that in this country no one can treat anyone, and especially not us who have entered the commission with honor, according to our party who has accepted your proposal, who has accepted the establishment of an investigative commission and who even expanded our mission to 2003. You see, we tripped on the first step, we tripped on 2003 because you thought that the privatisation process that you started and the contracts you signed were all in line with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. 25%+1 of the shares, all in accordance with the applicable rules of legal and political behaviour, and all that the government of the Croatian Democratic Community has done afterwards is all crime and that is something that needs to be condemned publicly and that is something that the HDZ should leave the government for. Well, you see, that was one big mistake. We are facts and arguments, Mrs Lovrin said on behalf of the club, proved and showed the public that in 2003, contrary to the Law on Trade Companies, you gave MOL more reserved rights than Mr Maric said you needed nothing, I said that you gave too much than was prescribed by the positive legal regulations of our country. I think you have done damage not only to the INA but to the Republic of Croatia. We're not afraid of the truth. What you wrote at the end of the conclusion that it is the responsibility of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to give a report to the Croatian Parliament within 90 days, so the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia received all the materials of our commission at the request of the Chief State Attorney. That's what we're all members of the committee knew, that's what we agreed to. And if you thought it was a sequence and it was a crime, you'd report it to the state's attorney's office, and we wouldn't be here as an investigative committee discussing something that I think is politics. I have a specific example. When we asked the media to come out of the hall, when we talked about the gas business, when we were supposed to talk about something that was secret, later we took down the secret code, the government took down not us that the Government of the Republic of Croatia was afraid of anything but MOL did not allow that part of the contract to be removed from the code of secrecy and we heard that part. The session lasted 30 minutes all together, and it was quickly discussed. You had your arguments, we had our own, but all together, the whole crime story, about something that severely damaged the Republic of Croatia took 30 minutes. And when they were cameras and media, it took hours, hours and hours. When we talked about witnesses, when we agreed that Ivo Sanader was testifying, Mr. Polancec testified, Mr. Shucker to testify, you agreed. That's what we agreed unanimously. And after the testimony has ended, when some witnesses have not said or said more than they should have told you either to us or told us enough or not, both Croatian public and competent institutions will decide. You asked the Prime Minister to testify then, not because you were interested in what the Prime Minister had to say about it because you knew that she had taken over her job and her role as Prime Minister with honor and that she did not protect crime, that she had shown herself publicly and said what she thought about organised crime and corruption in Croatia until the end. We're not afraid of anything, and we've been prepared as HDZ deputies to question both the former party president and the former prime minister without delay, regardless of what some of us have told us that we didn't behave exactly there. We acted in accordance with what we and the members of the commission, as well as the representatives of the Croatian Parliament should ask and know. The way you acted after you were supposed to sit for the witness of Madam Prime Minister, it is nothing more than an intention to cause early elections, the purpose of causing chaos in the Republic of Croatia and the purpose of causing the connection of Podravka cases, Polanceca, I do not know what case they have not opened all of you to prove that your story is that our government is a criminal organization that goes against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all those who chose us in this House of Commons. You see, that's where you made the mistake. Everything you wanted to achieve by politics on the INA board failed. You failed because our public should not be blind to healthy eyes. We didn't do anything wrong, we agreed to what you asked. If we were afraid we'd stop it, if we thought we were protecting crime, protecting someone who did something dishonest or breaking our laws, we wouldn't have agreed to it. You declared us thieves before we sat there. You've treated us like we're not protecting the interests of our citizens, we're protecting a small organization and we feel that everything we do is not fair and it's not good. We're not afraid of anything. If we have done our job honestly and honestly, if the citizens have chosen us to this side of the assembly, we are not afraid of the truth. That's why we five members of the commission gave our separate opinion and we don't allow anyone to be found guilty in advance, that you condemn anyone for any political decisions the government has made, and we believe that we had facts and arguments to say that, in 2003, you made a mistake, the offer of MOL was 100 million dollars higher than the offer of another partner. Why did the third bidder give up, we thought you might have enjoyed, your government that year, MOL, maybe MOL had some privileged information that we didn't know at the time. It's our fact at least you don't think it's true. Why should we accept what you said was wrong and what you say is not good and what you think we are an organized group, a group, a group, a government, that went to trick our citizens. You're wrong. We showed determination, courage, a democratic step, that we had agreed and aware of what was waiting for us in INA, we were not afraid of anything. We're not afraid of the truth either. We're just afraid of what lies are, of slanders, and of what is unfairly applied to our government, our prime minister, to all of us here. We did our job. But we found that you were wrong at first, that you set the wrong foundation for the biggest Croatian company you sold, which is INA. Whether or not we should have sold it will be said by economic experts and legal, but also by the Croatian public. And that our government has damaged the Republic of Croatia, that our ministers, our prime minister, are a criminal group. We won't let anyone do that to you, no matter what you tell me now in the replica or the corrections of an incorrect quote. I'm telling my citizens and all of us. Our government will faithfully and knowingly introduce the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, end crime and the mafia in this country, extract our country from the economic crisis, and that is our interest. And if you had the courage to vote for the state budget, you would have given us enough time to introduce Croatia into the European Union, and then you wait or don't wait for your chance, and let us do our job honestly and honestly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64213	We've reported five replicas. First, Vice President Antunovic. Here's the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64214	Comrade Salapic, you have surprised me with your argument. In fact, there is a Law on the Investigative Commission and it is known what the task of the Research Commission is. And I, as a representative in this House who was not a member of this investigation committee, patiently waited for all of you on your left and right, members of this investigation committee to do your job and determine the facts. Of course, I could have followed closely what my colleagues were doing, and I know that they were trying to do exactly what they were doing in the investigation committee, which is to determine the facts. But you have now clearly demonstrated, even clearly, that you have recognized in this whole story the only political opportunity to accuse an opponent, a political opponent. But believe me, there was no intention on this side, and I can see it was on your side. But not only from your debate, but even more from the debate that preceded this one of yours, which I listened to very calmly and calmly to the conscience which is the greatest achievement, which was completely unfounded by the dubious sentences about the only transparent large privatisation, the partial privatisation that has been carried out in this country in the last 20 years, which is precisely the first round of privatisation of INA. It took you almost 10 years to put it on your agenda and your political account, and you could have done it as soon as it was done. Of course you couldn't because everything was public, because everything was transparent, because the best price possible was achieved and more than that. And now you've obviously put it into play precisely because of political interests and attempts to cast darkness on any of your bad moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64215	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64216	Thank you, Vice President. Well, if everything had been so transparent, publicly during your government as you say, distinguished counterpart Antunovic would not have lost the election in 2003. You lost your election because of this transparency, public and honesty. There are other cases here. We have Pliva, we have markets, we have the city of Zagreb. So you've been in Zagreb for 20 years? So what did you do in Zagreb? Zagreb was robbed until the end. You say we were afraid. So why didn't you suggest that in early 2003 he join the Commission of Investigation? You don't care about that because you made a mistake here. If you wanted to be honest by the end, you should have put it in 2003. We agreed. I've said my opinion. I spoke honestly and honestly. Politics and nothing else, and the truth will determine someone else. If there's a broken law we've passed laws here in this House who's obliged to take certain steps we don't fear, and the truth may sometimes hurt more than what we can tell each other today. I knew exactly what I said and I didn't surprise anyone. I'm just saying that we're interested in the truth, the truth and only the truth, and even in this case, the INA, and if it were for you, you wouldn't lose the election, you wouldn't be sitting in opposition for 17 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64217	Replica, dear fellow Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64218	Col. Salapic, you said that you proved during your work in the Investigation Commission that you also demonstrated intransparentity in that first part of the privatisation of INA concluded in 2003. Now my one question that is not political. It's on a fact-based basis. I know you can't give me that answer because you weren't in the Parliament at the time. You may have been a member of the party, but you weren't in Parliament in 2003. But my question is why and why the members of the Croatian Democratic Community did not participate in the debate in 18.7.2003, when the then Government submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implemented privatisation process of the INA, however untransparent, transparent, like this, but it is implemented. If he was transparent, we only have evidence if we want to read them. Because the fact that we've heard all sorts of maths and evaluations and methods of assessment, input parameters, that's that ex-post mind that's trying to cloud one essential thing, and that's what happened later, so you and I have had the opportunity to hear and math type 25% plus one is 26. So, in substance, we understand each other very well, we understand each other very well. But my key question now to you why did the Croatian Democratic Community not take advantage of the opportunity to do our job in Parliament, which is a basic and fundamental task and prime minister. So why didn't you do your job and show that intransparency in 2003? Why? For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64219	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64220	My colleague Koračević, you yourself said I was not a representative of the Croatian Parliament at the time, but it is not important for me. You answer me one question. Are you supposed to wait 2010 to say that crime was committed in Croatia in 2005? You were supposed to wait for Ivo Sanader to leave and say that INA was wrongly sold that a crime was committed in INA. It is necessary to wait for certain changes to occur in Croatia so that you try to harm the government of the Croatian Democratic Community, you too had a brother for a good 7-year-old brother to change things, so you didn't. Your joint government had a chance to revolutionize Croatia when HDZ lost the election after Tudjman died, so what did you do? You barely lasted three years in power, you lost the election, and if it were, I would repeat one to my thesis, Mr. Koracevic, if it were true that it were fairer then we would sit for 20 years in opposition, and you were 20 years in power. So that's enough comment for all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64221	Gentlemen, let's go back to the subject because obviously yes. They say it's been six months since the commission worked, but I can see how now the members of the commission are very active here, obviously it should have been extended. Mr. Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64222	First, let me say that we have not been in Zagreb for 20 years, but 10 years in power, and we would be 15 if Tudjman wanted to confirm the mayor when we got '95. election, but it's not. On the other hand, what you're saying right now is that the SDP wants to show the prime minister and the minister to a criminal organization, so you'd probably just as well now as you're saying two years ago if I was talking about Sanader, and you see Sanader now. You don't see him here, but you see him in the context that the story moves. But then you'd be just as eager as you are now defending Prime Minister Kosor to defend Sanader, and not just you, but Mrs. Lovrin and all those who participated in the investigation committee's work, as well as in your club. It means so much about how convincing you are, or what is in your words of the honest one, and what you really think or what you're saying is what you need. And on the other hand, you said the voters would eventually verify who was right. Well, voters have verified, in these two months HDZ has lost 10% of the rating, and you haven't lost, you haven't lost it because you've been convincing about all these affairs. That's probably why they rewarded you. So don't mix the pears and apples with Mr. Salapic, but admit what the facts are, and the facts are on the table. And once again to teach you, no management rights have been sold, but after the purchase of certain stakes in the company, the partners agreed on who would have any management rights, and all those involved in the competition knew what kind of management rights they were expecting. If you thought they got too much, you had seven years to correct it, not to reward them in 2008 and give them the whole company in their hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64223	Thank you, Mr. Maras. Answer, comrade Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64224	Mr. Maras, first of all, you should make your own arrangements. I thank you for teaching, but you don't have to. One little detail. The assessment of what you're saying will be made by our voters. The elections are an opportunity to get an assessment of the passage or not pass, and by the local elections for the city districts and local committees I see that you have lost key cities. Since such a situation is as you say, HDZ would not win elections in Dubrovnik either, in Sibenik and Zadar. And you forgot one key thing. On the INA committee, you're the one who wanted to be chairman of the commission, and you're the one who initiated this whole story. When I was talking about politics, I was talking about you. I thanked Mrs. Zgrebec for the correct and one professional leadership of the commission, and the politics, the invitation of Prime Minister Kosor to come to the Parliament, I told you, not the other members of the commission, because you are the one who wanted to sit very much in the position of the President of the Investigation Commission, and you are the one who wanted to very much to prove that our government is a criminal organization. And if that were the case, that's how your party thought you'd be president, and you didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64225	Thank you. Arsen Bauk, replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64226	So, colleague Salapic, you tried to convince us what we wanted when we proposed this, and I'll explain it very simply. So we wanted two things. First, to show that the job was bad. I'm talking politically bad, I'm not talking about this criminal, judicial, etc. It will be determined, it is not the work of the Parliament. And that showed the testimony of Minister Shuker, because if he was good, he would have commended it, he wouldn't have been fenced, if it were a good job. So we showed it. And then we wanted to show that everyone knew about this bad business, and that was confirmed in his testimony by the former Prime Minister Sanader who said everyone knew, said what the whole nation had said the whole time he became prime minister, that was that Mrs. Kosor was his first deputy, most loyal associate, and that he had sent her to reconcile Shuker and Polancec who knew nothing. And thirdly, this is the goal of the commission to determine the truth, and this is one political game that has one total paradox in the next. One party that was a member of the ruling coalition in 2003 will vote against that privatisation in 2003 was bad, and in 2007 when the opposition was against such privatisation, the commission voted that the privatisation was good. It's just that it's about the HSS that I am now, to know what I'm talking about, so it's your best indication that it's one political game. And I agree with all those who say you'd defend Mr. Sanader in the same way a year ago. But I must say that your way of questioning Prime Minister Sanader and your parliamentary action after that commission is very noticeable and well, and that you have every predisposition to be one of the young leaders of the opposition in the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64227	Replication response, colleague Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64228	I didn't order this EPP last, that's not necessary. That will be said by our voters, and by those who elected me to the Croatian Parliament. It is very important to tell you that you yourself may sometimes be executed in what you say, so here is the testimony of the INA Vice-President Linic said that the economic situation in Croatia was good, strong, stable. The second witness, Mr. Jurcic, said the INA was sold because of the difficult economic situation and poor financial opportunities in Croatia. So there's something wrong with that, too. So it doesn't turn out that what you're saying and what I'm saying today in front of HDZ deputies isn't true. I was telling the truth. And your comment on Prime Minister Sanader, and our interview with Prime Minister Sanader, has given you a chance to hear, read and see. Therefore, if we were afraid we wouldn't even invite him, and about who you would support if I asked you, I'm sure you wouldn't support your President Milanovic because he takes you from day to day where you're very used to being, in fat... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64229	Let's get back to the commission, not the evaluations, the ratings, the election. That's all when it's called "citizens" by program, etc. A colleague of Markovanovic's called. Here's to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64230	Well, we won't talk about it, but the polls are always theirs, and the victory is ours, but that's what we're used to. Namely, here is my colleague Salapic, who gave an extraordinary good analysis of why the commission was founded, so pure politics, which was happening, and I think the whole commission was only created because we began to return more and more frequently in the years between 2000 and 2003 when the famous coalition was in power where we discovered that there were extremely many nebulous and criminal decisions. It's not just the DAIMLER, it's the purchase of tilt trains, everything, so I don't count. A lot of things. So, a lot, a lot of it was in there. Now, when we started sticking on our noses another big budget minus that they were patching up with the INA and selling the management rights, selling without the management rights fees, then let's go commission, and we'll talk about gas and this one, that one. If they wanted to discuss gas professionally, they would have called Professor Dr. Miljenko Šunjic, if they wanted to talk about INA, they would have invited Vesna Balenović, who would have told them the truth, if they had destroyed INA, they would have destroyed it because they destroyed INA TRANSPORTS and shared the transport of INA with similar partners. That similar partners have been favored all along, that's true. And managing rights are easy to prove. If there were 7 members of the administration, 2 Hungarians, 5 of us, and all decisions made with 6 people, what's different than selling management rights? And now we're wondering, and did we get what we got? No, I don't. They might know who got what.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64231	My colleague Salapic's answer. Dear colleague Markovanovic, we agreed in our opinion, and I am glad that the other MPs also think that it was ordinary politics because it was not so, that we did not act wisely and wisely from the HDZ club decided that we would agree to this commission because we were not afraid of the truth and in the end when the story of causing the riots, early elections, the INA stick-up with other cases led by the State's Attorney's office, you pulled the manual, but we stayed until the end. And I'm sorry we couldn't agree on common conclusions because you knew yourself that on the first wheel you'd fall on that exam. And today, we here with our heads up can talk about what we've been doing, and you may at what time is ahead of us, when some other questions are asked, and Mr. Markovanovic said DAIMLER and so on, I hope that justice will come to an end and that everything that is open and everything that needs to be finished will be proven and that, not prejudicing legal decisions and questions of the judiciary, but someone in this country needs to know who the cat is and who the mouse is. I hope that in the elections next year when our country becomes a full member of the EU, that you will realize that all these four years you have been in one big delusion that all the damage you wanted to do to our Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor, our ministers and our MPs, is an empty story in the wind, and we are expecting serious business. I beg you, here in the end, not to bother us with something you absolutely didn't need anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64233	Thank you, comrade Salapic, your time is up. Dear colleague Lesar, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, so far, the debate on this topic has been attended by members of the Investigative Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64236	I'm waiting for the troubled spirits to calm down on my left. I feel as if the commission has continued its work in an extended composition and did not have enough time to prove their every intention. But by reading and listening to this debate, I'm finding several important facts. So, in the whole process nothing was stolen, everything was fair, good for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of Croatia. The refineries in Croatia have been modernised, a large number of new oil and gas wells have been discovered, positive, environmental protection in refineries is at a maximum and thus we have achieved full energy independence in gas and oil supply. How was the debate so far? I am starting from the fact that the Investigative Commission had the power to determine, instead of stealing and thieving, whether all the jobs in this process and in this business were protected interests and assets of the Republic of Croatia, and it could be threatened by incompetence and ignorance, not necessarily by crime. And that it is in the signature of documents which the commission will analyse between the other and the main contract as well as the first gas business add-on. So for this reason, and I am referring to these provisions of the decision, how is it that in the report and in the debate, and apparently such issues were not in place on the Commission's investigation and there was no answer, why did the Government of the Republic of Croatia sign the first add-on to the main gas contract in which it allows, expresses the willingness to sell half of the Croatian stake owned by the HAYAN bloc? The HAYAN block is neither in Zapraj nor in Zapresic but in Syria. In that block, HAYAN are active wells, i.e. fields JIHAR, AL MAHAR, JAZAL, MUSTAVIR, MAZUL, PALMAIR. According to official published data, HAYANA's profit is $200 million. 200 million dollars! Who made, ordered and made and where is the presentation of a study of justification for Croatia to sell half of its stake in HAJAN? And when did that happen and where did it happen? Is the sale of half of HAYAN in accordance with the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and the planned capacity building where the gas is energy? Why did MOL insist that this clause enter the first supplement of the main gas business contract? If it's $200 million to get it, it means it's a lucrative business. What about the gas field of the North Adriatic sold to AGIP or part, not all of it. So our experts estimate that the northern Adriatic has a supply of 8 billion meters of gas. Then the English were ordered to agree with our experts and eventually the Italians. When AGIP bought the North Adriatic Treaty at that time gave a projection of 11.5 billion spatial metres of gas, from then on, only Anamaria produced and placed 11.5 billion of gas on the market, only Anamaria. There are also those who have warned today that the northern Adriatic is worth more than 20 billion feet [20 billion m] of gas, but we gave it up with an assumption of 11.5. Where does the North Adriatic gas go? The warehouse around us bought and spent money instead of building our capacities, and when around it was filled the share of Croatian gas from the northern Adriatic goes to the Hungarian warehouses, the Croatian part from the field of the northern Adriatic goes to the Hungarian warehouses because we do not have them and we pay for the natural storage of our gas in the Hungarian warehouses. The third block of issues, the INA had and has concessions in the Adriatic, Dinaridi and Panon areas, over 20 years old and in those 20 years of oil, the INA oil no longer exists, it has been destroyed, closed, and has become a small service within the INA slide, no investment, no development under that concession has been made and has not taken the concession process now MOL which once received INA. Are you aware of what it means to leave these concession rights and concessions in all three areas so Jadran, Dinaridi and Panon leave the possibility that tomorrow the exploiter of these sites, everything found will be neither INA nor Croatia but will end up in the Hungarian warehouses. I read the other day that the price of domestic gas should be 70 limes and different lobbyists keep repeating the price of gas 90 limes per metre of space. In the background, it is an attempt to accept this price as marketable in Croatia, that this gas buys out MOL because we cannot sell to others who will later sell that same gas at 2,20 to 2,40 as it is at this time. And instead of reacting with a safeguard price, the producer of kuna 70 we release, we all keep silent and impose and tomorrow it will become true that the price of gas is 70 lip per metre. And I end up with the following, all countries that have a problem with energy and money to invest, don't build more expensive pipelines especially in rarely populated areas, islands and mountainous mountain areas, but have gas or use a new technology of compressed natural gas delivered to consumers in containers, small, medium or large and thus avoid large investment costs and now I ask the question, why we intend or demonstrate the willingness to sell our share of HN when the shipbuilding would build and transport, or by building gas transport facilities from Syria, could supply and solve the problem of gas supplying a huge number of islands, few populated areas, mountainous mountainous areas for which Croatia currently has no money to build pipelines, but there is no need for them after C&G technology already present. If we've made a mistake so far, this is the last time we're saving, we're getting out of a contract signed in December last year, it's also true, no one will be able to argue that the addition to this business was signed by Jadranka Kosor and not Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64237	Thank you, colleague Lesar. Next to discuss it, a distinguished colleague, Dragica Zgrebec, applied. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the opening of my debate, I'm going to say what the Commission's function is, because even in this debate, and in the media, it's been a lot of speculation about how the Investigative Commission was doing, which was not asked. The Commission shall, when established, have a strictly limited work cycle and may work, ask questions and seek documentation only in the field of those issues which have been placed in their jurisdiction. The investigative commission, because this is Parliament's working body is a political body, it is part of parliamentarians, in our law there is a majority ruling, the minority in the Committee has opposition, with the opposition being elected from the opposition's ranks by the President of the Commission. So this is in the sense of the Law on the Investigation Commissions. It is not a judicial body to determine someone's guilt, and the people he calls to testify does not mean that he suspects them but asks them for certain clarifications, clarifications that cannot be obtained from the documentation he collects. The conclusions it gives are of a political nature, not a determination of penalties or the determination of criminal offences, etc. Croatia has opted for a market economy and private ownership, and one such privatisation has also been examined by the Investigative Commission. We decided to say for the market economy and private property, we went to privatisation, INA is the first company to be privatized under a special law. The law has established the extent to which it can be privatised and the stages to which it is privatised. The first phase of privatisation was the sale of 255 + one share. She's been really law-abiding. The law has laid down exactly how the phase is implemented. On every stage of privatisation, the Croatian Parliament had to give its consent. That's what's done. But after every privatisation, the government had to report on the privatisation. Unfortunately, the report was discussed and accepted only about the sales phase 25% plus one share. And that's a fact. And in that sense, the law was broken in the next stages of privatisation. I'm not going to assess at all whether legally there was privatisation at any stage. That's not even the task of the investigation committee. The investigation committee can only say what has not been passed under the law. How did the contracts come together? Deals between shareholders are a matter of shareholders. We can assess whether it was politically useful or harmful to give such or such management rights to a strategic partner or one of the major shareholders at a certain stage. Personally, I don't think selling 25 plus one share was predetermined who would be tomorrow's owner of the INA, because MOL had no guarantees under contract or by law that it would ever become a majority owner. Because the government did not make a commitment by that contract, even if the first stock was to do so by a strategic partner. However, the government has significantly influenced the time when it will implement the next privatisation phases. And we here say in our separate opinion and in the conclusions of the clubs that just three years of privatisation has taken place in a way that has transferred the shares to the Defence Fund, which is not at all controversial. Neither is it disputed that the government sold shares to employees and former employees under more favourable conditions, nor is it disputed that it went to public offerings of shares because it was established by law. However, at that time, the government had actually made it possible for MOL to buy the next 31% of shares on the market and to become the owner of 56% of its stock. At this point, 56 was 25 and 31. At this point, he's 47.16%. For a very short time, perhaps at this point he has already bought on the stock market because stocks are constantly on offer. Maybe there's over 50% of us at this point don't know how much it owns. However, the government should not have gone into the initial offer of shares in 2007. I can speculate that she was doing it for the election. Did she do it or not? That's what I'm talking about. But everyone has a right to their own opinion. Why did the government put 17% of shares on the market just in 2007 under favourable conditions for citizens. We can say she favored her citizens but thus created an opportunity for MOL to reach a majority stock package. But something happened in silence. The 2003 agreement regulates that MOL will not carry out any activity relating to the INA’s activities in the INA’s field of business. However, the contract clause changed already in 2007. It was allowed MOL to buy Tifon and he became a competitor of INA not only to Croatia but also to this southeast part of Europe, and it really happened that MOL had dropped retail and that MOL is having problems with the retail network at the moment. Well, thanks to the fact that MOL came forward as a competitor. We argue that no contract to any clause of the 2003 contract required a change of contract or certain parts of the contract because MOL had reached ownership of 47.16%. If it were true we could quote parts of the contract, they were written and copied from the contract in this report. It is said that the contract lasts so long until one of the sides, so either Croatia or MOL has 25% plus one share. At the moment of the treaty change, there's both of them and there's more to it than that. And the changes in shares in the management and supervisory board are only changed at the time when MOL crosses 50% of ownership. So when he gets 50% plus one share. That didn't happen either. But what happened in the meantime. In 2008, INA has huge business problems and liquidity problems. She entered investments that financed loans with an unfavourable interest rate, came into a situation that investments were not completed, and loans could no longer be obtained. We hear in the testimony that she couldn't pay her wages. MOL reacts, secures a three billion-euro loan and, of course, puts pressure on the government at the time to make changes in the contract and he sees that INA was not managed in a good economic way. And I personally think that's why, that's why the MOL which is now in a position to manage the INA that wants to get rid of and the job it loses, which is gas business. And then what happens? The government concluded now that we can talk about it because the contract was published, the government concluded such a contract to say the price of gas will be market gas for everyone in Croatia except refineries owned by INA. they will have privileged conditions. Where was the Competition Protection Agency there and to say that it was a distortion of competition? We didn't hear anything about it, and we couldn't hear about it from witnesses because we couldn't call Mrs. Spevec. And maybe the last thing about gas business. It's going to the contract or the first annex of the contract and you know what's regulated by it? The INA tax debt is regulated, only then is it determined in the contract annex that INA is in debt 2 billion kunas of excise duty and is determined until when a billion kuna will be paid, and when the remaining debt will be regulated by the rural payment. And finally, let me just say, if everything is so clean, in all the stages of privatisation, then why not accept the conclusion that all the documentation, not only what the state's attorney asked for, but the testimony, all the documentation we collected, so all the contracts, all the INA documents, are delivered to the State's Attorney's office, so let it assess what's legal, which is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64239	Thank you. Hey, buddy Linic's up. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64240	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that the document that is before us, which is about the report of the commission, is material that represents a significant quality. In that document we have very clearly listed and which are relevant documents at all stages, which happened, relevant data from all documents extracted, I would say without suggestion or anything, testimony, short testimony print. So it's a document with no political influence on either side, which means a document that's really worth it. Of course, no one expects the committees in Croatia to try to get the truth out of the documents but we have two different attitudes. Whoever wants to deal with this problem seriously will look at these documents, read and try to create their own truth. So let me try to make it very clear because most of the commission has suggested conclusions. What I can conclude is that by 2003 the privatisation process carried out under the law, the public tender was, public work, disciplined, neat and responsible work of the Privatisation Committee, published complete and results of the competitions, contract day and finally announced by the Croatian Parliament. For most it is illegal and harmful for Croatia. At the same time in these documents is clearly indicated, there is no right to gain more than 25+1, only the Croatian Parliament can decide on that. So no one got more than they should. But it's not relevant for most. No one could get over 25+1, no contract clause binding. However, I must say that I am shocked by the untrue colleague of a lawyer who interprets the Law on Commercial Society inappropriately, untruely. To speak of what it says or does not say in that law, but rather the right to determine by means of a contract what the rights of one or another shareholder are, I would say cheating on the public. It's a public deception. Let's move on. For most of the negotiation of new shareholders' relations beyond an existing contract in which the contract is clearly indicated that as long as someone does not cross 50% there is no right to change the relationship... This is considered useful for Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, my colleague Lovrin explains that it's under the Company Act. It's not true. That's not what the law obliges you to do. The contract says you don't need to change it, you don't need to. No law nor the Commercial Society Act imposes any change in the contract between shareholders. None, but someone changed. But for most of the changes in that contract that go to harm is a useful act. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has also decided to sell the Fund to defenders and employees. All right, the government was still over 50%. Then the government makes a decision to sell 17%. The government has decided to make MOL most of the market. Most people think it's all right again, it's all transparent. And then we come, the Parliament has never been informed of the processes or the sale of the fund to either the defenders or the employees or the public offering. We also have a secret gas contract, we have a contract that tells us that tax debt can be paid through two shareholders' contracts, which is contrary to the State budget law. But you see, all these items of new relationships between the two investors for most are legal. All right, most of you have the right to read facts however you want, but you just need to know these facts are both transparently written and in this report. Imagine, for most, having most of the 7 members of the Supervisory Board compared to 2, most of the 7 members of the administration compared to 2, it is considered not well agreed on for reserved rights. And these reserved rights that have been said and most are trying to present as a crime all documents of the board of directors, the Supervisory Board has never been the subject of a debate, that MOL has never vetoed any of those rights. And it can also be seen that most in the Croatian part have never been exposed to any pressure on reserved rights, which means there was no dispute for INA management in reserved rights. But that's why most of them conclude that the Croatian owner was limited, so this is the reason for the failure of business, non-investment, which is why we have achieved enormous losses in INA business. Exactly what MOL is to blame for. Now, I'm even saying that most have the right to condemn MOL that it's his fault that we had the biggest losses at the time when the oil price jumped and all the oil companies made enormous profits. And I can also understand that MOL is to blame that by 2003 we had complete production in Croatia, very small imports and INA derivatives were sold at private pumps. But today INA is the largest importer of derivatives, not oil, not oil. Yeah, the answer is all that's there's the blame MOL. Now, if it's really MOL's fault, why did the government allow for further privatisation? Why don't most people just ask themselves that? If the majority finds MOL responsible for the damage to business and bad business management, such a company should not have become the owner of the shares. And the government, holding 50 percent in their hands, could simply disable the MOL in anything. And then there was no change in the contract and there could be managed and responsible being by the INA. Yes, it is to be read from these documents but not from the conclusions of the ruling ones. And of course, that I end up going to what's most important. In this House, we've been struggling to take over the gas business. In this House, we had a debate whether it's good or not for Croatia. With the unregulated gas market, the price of gas was clearly warned not to get involved in that part. INA products gas and will deliver it as the state decides on prices because we do not have an economic price, we do not allow price formation. And we have some right because it's Croatian gas. But no, we were selling the truth here, saying it was our interest, going to change the contract, on behalf of it providing over $500 million for the Environment, and at this point we're thinking about how to settle debts to whom? INAs. Why? The losses were, the problems were about forming prices. MOL finally got the freedom to form prices, burdened Croatia for higher gas prices. But the gas isn't just energy. Gas is also a raw material in our Petrokemia, regardless of whether it is organic or inorganic, and we also influence the important results of Petrokemia, which is one of the major exporters. Yeah, it's all done with the gas business. And what is the greatest, today it is evident to everyone that it is a pity, a pity for Croatia. So why is it a shame? Well, today's debate is between the government and the MOL on the government's debts to the INA. Because this contract hasn't been consummated, this contract has left bad consequences and we'll see everything we're going to discuss. Well, there's a story coming up today that we're going to give JANAF shares to pay off those debts. So what's called transporting oil, gas, electricity, which we know is not to be privatized, and that's not because MOL is rude, but because the contract is badly concluded and this is not allowed. So, a lot of facts. Everyone can read them who has a better understanding of thesis. The idea of the majority's conclusions is unclear, because it's simply obvious that the facts have not been read correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64241	Thank you. We have a correction from colleague Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's an incorrect allegation of Mr. Representative Linic, and not only incorrect but also rude not to say rude, because he calls me as a lawyer to be wrong and not to be able to interpret the law. So, what I said and I know the law well, and I know well the right to vote in capital and management rights. So, what I said and it's you here. 27 provisions of the Commercial Society Act have a three-quarter majority or 75% share in core capital and so many votes in the assembly. That's what MOL could get when he bought 25% plus one share. Then he could have had voting rights for 25% plus one vote in the assembly. What's... I also got what I was talking about are management rights and veto rights in the Supervisory Board and in the management of the decision-making process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is quite irrelevant that someone did not use their right, of course I already told you because the other partner knew that he had a veto and agreed ahead with him, and also that he got some miracle and I don't know when he had the right to have a member of the Finance and Development Board and then he talks about who bothered him about this development. It's equally incorrect, and you can read from the phonogram that I said it was a legal obligation to change the contract. I simply did not say that, but I said that the Privatisation Act says when Croatia falls under 50% that there is no longer the possibility of that control that the INA without the consent of the Government cannot make decisions on... That's what the Privatization Act says, so read it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] INAs in the Privatization Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64243	Thank you. Correction of the quote by fellow Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64244	Thank you very much. Well, here's an esteemed colleague, he would correct the incorrect allegations that he literally said that colleague Lovrin misrepresents the provisions of the Law on Commercial Society and that it deceives the public. That's an incorrectly respected colleague. The colleague Lovrin correctly interpreted the provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies, especially those relating to the structure of capital and ownership shares in relation to the management rights, which was just a little earlier in view and explained. So the whole story is that, so there's a story about gold shares that don't match and it's not clear and it needs to be done, of course, by studying all these contracts, the structure of the underlying capital, the ownership of the management rights shares and the basis of the transferred management rights structured, so the bodies in the decision-making company. There's a problem. That's actually what this is about. This is not a false interpretation of the provisions of the Commercial Society Act. On the contrary, quite correctly and as prescribed by the Law on Commercial Society.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64245	Thank you. Replica coworker Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64246	Comrade Linic, you've been talking about these retained questions. It was meant to be shown through the Committee as management rights. But these are stockholders' mutual agreements, and they have nothing to do with what they say is the provisions of the Company Act, which has one who owns 75% plus one share or can block if he has 25% plus one share. However, it is interesting how these reserved rights are regulated or those relations between shareholders when they must give consent, when MOL has 25 plus one share. It will give consent to some business transactions of 80 million and 200 million kuna per year, respectively. Why did such a relationship of consent, mutual agreement between shareholders when the contract was changed, when Croatia had 44% shares when the contract changed, and it comes in a more unfavourable position with 44% than MOL was with 25% plus one share. There is a question of the art of negotiation, political benefits or damage, we can decide on that, because I think it is, and so the shareholders could agree. And I personally think that it was agreed just under pressure from the negative business results in 2008, because the contract changed in 2009. As far as gas business is concerned, we should say that this contract could be consumed, we have changed the gas market law in a way that pleases the INA, which is now the MOL that manages the INA. Why did we go to do that? We even went so far as to change the law on the gas market.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64247	Answer, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64248	Yeah, and I repeat, a fellow lawyer really cheats on the public. It speaks of the provisions of the Law on Trade Companies that apply to the congregation. The work of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board is a matter of agreement between shareholders, and it is not the subject of the law, because they are negotiating powers, and it is a matter of reserved rights. And that's what we very clearly say nothing changes in the congregation. But there is something else, that relations are clearly defined 7:2, 7-2, and for reserved rights, for not putting property at risk, that there is no danger of buying transactions, that there is no risk of negative negotiations with the government, with trade unions, that this is what shareholders should be responsible for, but you see the same thing, this same reserved right was contracted by the Croatian Government after 2003, but at the expense of Croatia, far worse. Far worse. And now I'm asking, why? Why didn't they fight to make the contents of the reserved rights the same? Therefore, imagine illegal rights are reserved when it comes to MOL, and it is legal for the Croatian government, but most do not care what these reserved rights are to the damage of Croatia when they are subsequently agreed. As far as gas is concerned, in my debate, I and I have pointed out that we are responsible here because we went to change the laws and allow the government to give MOL, i.e. the INA the possibility of having higher prices with Croatian gas, that it threatens the Croatian industry, that it threatens Croatian energy, and that it solves the incompetent and responsible people who are responsible for the losses and damages made in the period 2006-2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64249	Replica, colleague Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64250	Thank you very much. ... Comrade Linic, let's change our mind about some of the things you've brought here. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] You said the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on the sale of shares of the Defence Fund. I'd like to hear from you, which is why I'm giving you a chance, is it true that this is the decision of the board of directors of the defense fund to sell shares? Is it true that it's an investment decision, not a political decision? Is it true that the defense fund owed 12% of the interest to pay dividends to its shareholders, members? Is it true that with the sale of that portfolio it was the best investment decision of theirs, because they paid the dividend and kept the fund? Is it true that this achieved the highest price that could have been achieved, not so much of the INA stock price before and after? It's about that part. The second part, when you talk, can we call MOL guilty of this or that. So you're saying the MOL is responsible for the INA losses. Is it true that the INA administration is guilty of INA losses? Is it true that she obtained oil at a significantly higher price than the market price and created high supplies? Is it true that the price of INA shares is 25% plus one, 3.5 billion and that the potential profit of INA is as you said, and I agree with you 4 billion kunas net annually, which means that actually the price was one potential yearly, less than one potential annual net profit, which was not only achieved thanks to poor governance, or not thanks to bad governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64251	Replication response, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64252	My colleague Maric, the decision of the Board of Directors of the Defence Fund against Sales is not questionable, the government's suggestion is MOL is a good partner, sell to him. It was the government's decision and the government's suggestion. Let's remember that. After that, sales to employees is also fine, and will be employed with this is not questionable, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia went public with 17%. That's what she lost her 50%. The government has decided to acquire majority ownership of MOL. No one else. If it hadn't been for the sale of those 17%, and there was no significant impact on public revenues. She didn't have much effect on the budget either, but she had a lot to do with the election. But it was for the election. Therefore, whoever allowed the majority ownership of MOL and the change of all these contracts that he had completely changed the contract for his own benefit is still the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the administration of 7 members of the Croatian administration compared to the 2 most responsible for everything that happened in the INA, headed by Dragicevic. But you will allow two men, one finance minister, one prime minister of the government were chairmans of the Supervisory Board, seven members of the Supervisory Board are responsible for everything that's been going on. While I was a member of the Supervisory Board, only because of the lost $5 million, I filed a criminal complaint against members of the administration, filed, discussed two international experts brought in, and all documents were handed over to Bajic, as chairman of the Supervisory Board, for 5 million lost dollars in oil procurement. On the purchase of oil. Documented with expert interpretations and opinions. Why didn't Shuker do it? Why didn't Polancec do it? They were chairmans of the Supervisory Board. To create 2 to 3 billion losses when everyone in the world has become rich at an increase in oil prices, except for the administration, members of the Supervisory Board are also guilty. That's what we're trying to say. That's why we've been put in a situation like this that we've been trading on claims and trading on gas business, because we didn't know how to pay MOL back the money he gave. And the basic thing, you know one thing, if I could just have one more second? Thank you, Vice President. And that's when we talk about value. The biggest problem with INA is that it needs one-off money that's been talked about billions of dollars to rebuild the refinery, one-off money to rebuild the wells, one-off money to explore the Adriatic without speaking in Syria. So when we talk about the value of the company, it's not the only result. Because the medium-term plan that was the element of the contract was saying that it was all to be made. The deadlines were made, the payout would not be possible anywhere because it was simply 5 years of bloody investment and the return of funds. Therefore, do not compare profits because what was most important was investment in INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64253	Next, an esteemed colleague, Luke Denon, applied for a replica of the debate. Here's a colleague of Denon's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64254	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, indeed, when, as a layman, we read this report on the work of the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of INA, then reading of course 2 types of conclusions after the material we have read could be made in layman's terms 3 some conclusion. The first conclusion is when you read not the material, not the documents that are presented here and the contracts from the beginning to the end, but when you read the conclusion of one side then it can be concluded that everything that happened and is happening in the INA is, for example, the first privatisation contract that was made in 2003. If this is so interpreted that because the restrictions in this INA Privatisation Act were such that 2 governments were not able to do so in the first Privatisation Treaty, 2 Governments were unable to do so, that they were unable to see how the INA Privatisation Act was cleverly drawn up that they were powerless and that they had to do everything so that it turned out the way it turned out. If that's how you guys figure it out on this side then I'll be like a layman and as the one who's an opposition say that then you've chosen or we've chosen two incompetent governments together. Governments that were not able to do something that was so bad in this Law on Privatisation of INA change most of what you now have in the Croatian Parliament. The law is to change if it's wrong. But it is obvious that from the testimony provided in this report some of the witnesses said, we will not say that they were relevant, but those who were and who were asked, however quietly found that this law, the first Law on Privatisation of INA, and the first contract that it was transparent, that it was in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, that it could be reacted to and manifested in that conference in 2003, but it was obvious that it was then not necessary or considered necessary to react. It's the first kind of layman fact that can be extracted from reading such extensive material. Another conclusion that is imposed in itself despite the attempt to have 2 different opinions is that something is happening in the INA, and that is not the way it should be done and that it should be investigated in any case. I will only read part of the 10th conclusion of this party, not to say the opinion given, means the conclusion attached to this material that it says, I will literally read: "In the decision-making process on the basic guidelines and the addition of the first shareholder agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the MOL and the Gas Business Treaty, negotiations were held between the former Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Damir Polancec, where the commission was not operationally engaged in the negotiation process and the elements of the negotiations, the final version of the contract was presented to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, showing all the elements that protected the interest of the Republic of Croatia as the owner of 44.8% of the shares". And now this is most interesting: "The documents and testimony of the witnesses are unequivocal that the Commission – Damir Polancec, Šuker, Lučić, Duvnjak and Drazen Bošnjaković – was appointed as a committee in February 2008 for negotiations with MOL and for the preparation of amendments and addition of the first shareholder contract and the Treaty on the Gas Business of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that the commission met twice and that other members of the Ministry of Economy participated in the work of the commission other than appointed members, and none of the other members of the Government". I repeat, none of the other members of the government. And in conclusion: "The documents and testimony of the witnesses also shows that the decision on amendments and additions to the shareholder contract was made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a referendum by the then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy Damir Polancec, and on the proposal of then Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. It also turns out that the full documentation and texts of the contract with all the annexes have not passed, I repeat, have not passed the regular procedure for decision-making at the meetings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that no analysis on the acquisition of debts and their implications for the state budget as well as the consequences of the change in the management structure in the INA has been presented with the proposal." That's the conclusion of the commission that, of course, your commission, your members of the commission signed and wrote it. Can you read and explain what that means? This means that a decision has been made, and that the government, as it says here, "The government of the Republic of Croatia was not in that decision and it was Polancec and Sanader," so you write, "it's their fault because they made a decision that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had no idea what it was making," so you wrote, "the raised hand". That's what it says. I may be reading the wrong document, but that's what it says. It's all saying that this attempt in the tenth conclusion that you're still showing that there's something wrong, but if it's already wrong then it's the ones who are gone, and that's, above all, Damir Polancec and Ivo Sanader. You wrote that too. And now the third conclusion that is imposed on this material is, here is a colleague who was very eloquent when he said that, of course, I respect and appreciate it, and the HDZ strategy is fighting corruption. And that's unquestionable, that's our strategy, and we all support the fight against corruption. But if we've already written all of this in this document, then why isn't that one single conclusion of this other side of the Commission that asked that not only these documents, but all available documents in the INA be directed to the State's Attorney's office. It is minor, it is in line with the Croatian Democratic Community's strategy to fight corruption, so it is really not clear to me that such a minor conclusion that all documents are being forwarded to the State's Attorney's office has not found any place in this part at least, so that at least it is common if all this was not common. And finally tell me, I'm trying to say it as a layman. If we were the owners of INA and we were owners of INA, 44, 50%, 58% irrelevantly the owner of the warehouse around the INA was, too, the owner, so I own 44 percent as much as you say, that warehouse around the INA, and I now think that I should raise my hand to sell it to Plinar so Plinacro would give me 100 million things, Plinacro is also a state-owned company, there is no logic, instead of building it with much less money the same storage facility so that we can secure gas in Croatia and for its citizens, and production in Croatia, so we solved one warehouse in such a way that we bought it from ourselves or half of ourselves for a large number. That's how it's done that, don't think it's not. And in any case, now, instead of the two warehouses that we could have and the security of gas supply, we have one and we depend on who we are on about MOL because that's how it is in the management rights as you said here, the Polancec didn't say anything to the government, so they raised their hand on their persuasion that it's all right. It's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64255	Thank you. He's a colleague of mine. And it is up to debate the basis of the application of counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinović. I'm sorry, I didn't see that. My colleague, Lovrin, please choose to correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct the quote. The Anti-Corruption Strategy is one very serious document, it is not a HDZ document or presidency, it is a document brought by this Assembly and the HDZ Government that is exactly in the executive section systematically implements it under parliamentary supervision. And as for what we didn't want or not, the only conclusion from that separate opinion that could be adopted without a problem is that the documentation is delivered to the State's Attorney's office but it's one populist conclusion because the Commission's work is so public, the State's attorney knows everything about it, therefore, at any moment when, from everything that's public and daily visible, the State's Attorney can request documentation has been partly requested and it has been delivered to him and any further documentation will be delivered to him, that we don't bury it needlessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64257	Thank you. Comrade Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64258	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When parliamentary democracy is set up in parliament and the investigative commission on determining certain facts is launched then the creators and authors of these facts suffer more than any repressive body and apparatus in the country. All the facts and data that are then determined by this investigative commission of these and such parliaments have almost nothing to do with repressive bodies and apparatus. But what kind of situation are we in here? In such a situation, the parliamentary majority, because of the public and the obvious negative points in the event of the rejection of the proposal by the opposition and the parliamentary minority for the establishment of such an investigative committee, agreed to the establishment and operation of the investigation committee but with the figs in their pocket, but not to establish the facts but to conceal the facts. After all, but thanks to God, the public had to get to know the direct testimony, and then, having heard it all, there is so much knowledge and ability to conclude also on the basis of direct insight or direct viewing and listening to certain testimony. And that's why the conclusions proposed by the majority in this investigation committee are so, I wouldn't want to offend you right now, but they really insult common sense. In short, everything that was done until 2003 was not good, and from 2003 to today everything is legal. Well, gentlemen, if you're convinced that's the way you're afraid of having complete material delivered to Gaius Street, where it's the seat of the UskoK. After all, you're doing yourself a lot of damage, Mrs. Lovrin, if you're having a little bit of a tile here and this yellow one if you're so brave and then you show yourself to it, and don't hide behind this. You can pick up some more red ones. No one is defending us if we're going to make every single person here, if he's come into possession, these are now public documents to deliver those documents to UskoK 'cause there's obviously material in there. However, it is not our job to establish a truly criminal responsibility, no responsibility in terms of criminal law, no imaginary, no dissuasion, it is not really our job. But our job was here, or the Commission of Investigation, to determine the facts, not to cover up the facts. So maybe this is the time now that when we come into a position, and I think it can be done immediately if there is little courage to go to amendments to the law on investigating committees, these things must change and such investigative committees, or their work, cannot depend on the work or on the majority itself, because then we see what it comes down to. Namely here are colleagues and colleagues Linić, co-worker Zgrebec, Luka Denon, Gordan Maras spoke in detail about certain things by giving an accent exactly what our public directly through the media, especially electronics had to see. So, but it is especially noteworthy why you changed exactly in the contract these reserved rights to the damages of Croatia. If you claim that everything was disastrous until 2003 that all the coalition government has put us into this, that it has led Croatia to the brink of breaking in on this and on many other issues, please who gives you the right if it is true that you are pushing Croatia into the pit? Is that an alibi for that? But obviously, the reasons are different. And please, gentlemen, if you say that everything was so wonderful and wonderful and no indiscretions in the testimony of the period until 2003, none of the testimony that was in disrepair with each other. And then comes this second stage where each other where all the HDZ members who were or were formerly bringing and jumping into their mouths. So when it was all so wonderful, why is he running away from responsibility and such a great job? Why does the guy who signed it say he had no idea what he signed? The one who didn't sign the order has no idea what order he gave or is being built on not being that way. The conclusion on the signing of the gas business contract and the amendment of the contract was signed by the Prime Minister himself. So why are you ashamed of this job if it's all so beautiful and beautiful and if it's all in the interest of Croatia? But since everything's already been said here and I don't want to repeat myself and interpret myself in a worse way than my colleagues have said, but I'm going to say something that is a great danger to us. INA has all the catastre springs of water. She's in the hands of the MOL now. Croatia is the fourth country by resources and water findings. You here now as a majority prepare one silent privatisation of the reshaping of that society. All the documents on it have INA. So precisely in such a situation that you're doing well, and you're guilty of it, they said that you gave them and gave them management rights, majority management rights, that that's exactly the kind of situation that you know very, very careful about right now when it comes to these other non-renewable resources that are still left in Croatia. Other laws and now I won't talk about it, but who are preparing exactly what we are most concerned about, that Croatian resources are privatised in one way or another. It would be irreparable damage to Croatia and the issue of the survival of Croatian and Croatian citizens and Croats in Croatia. So think carefully, but in any case you will be prevented in such an intention and attempt.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64259	We do not need to be prevented by Mrs. Ingrid. We know very well what they are national and how they are protected by both very well and our public knows who has defended, protected, in what way and when. All right, and what about the bite and the bite and so on? and so on. Correction by colleague Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64260	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank God the time has not come for the SDP to allow me when I can speak and when I can speak and how I can speak. So, I'll correct the assumption that we're afraid of the State's Attorney's office. That's incorrect. It is precisely HDZ's majority and HDZ's government that established both laws and institutions that the State's Attorney's Office is doing as well as it is doing today. And we hope that we are and we are certain that we have brought the judiciary to that level that never again in the drawer of a state's attorney will an out-of-date criminal application. And secondly, if the conclusions were a proposed insult to common sense, I say that this mutual insult of common sense is in an isolated opinion exactly the opposite of everything that was in 2003 is transparent and legal and everything that happened afterwards is illegal and criminal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64261	Thank you. What's hurt? Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64262	The provision of Article 209 was violated because the lady was not correcting but distorting my exact quote. And it's not true exactly what you said, Mrs. Lovrin, that you made it possible for Uskok to work when you were, above all, like most of us here against the establishment of the USKOK. You forgot that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64263	Please discuss it later, nothing's been hurt here. Sit down. We have a replica. Mr. Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've got to say something. So, I think this commission has made one democratic, legal and political step. We unanimously agreed on who would testify. We did not declare anyone guilty in advance, nor did we live on witnesses, nor were we afraid of the truth, nor were we afraid of the judiciary, the USKOK, the State's Attorney. Mrs. Zgrebec called all of us members of the commission when the attorney general sent a written request to us to deliver all the materials and we did it. And before the debate here in Parliament, both before the last session and before the TV cameras. So, without fear, common sense and truth to determine what happened to INA. What will be the public assessment? Is there going to be a job for the judiciary? Is there anyone here wrong about the law? That's not our job. We did not find Ivo Sanader, nor Polancec, nor Mr Linic, Jurcic guilty. We have explored the facts, the political facts that the Croatian Parliament has authorized us to do. We have not played persecutors or investigators of any vigilantes, we have only as representatives of the Croatian Parliament in charge of all of us and your representatives have done our job. I said it was a pleasure to work with your President Mrs. Zgrebec, I believe that for six months we have established a very large and difficult job and I believe that everything we have done without fear and without a fig in our pocket is for pride how to do the investigative commission in the Croatian Parliament. We have not hidden anything, we have not lied, and what follows will be decided by those who should do and who are paid for their work in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64265	Thank you. Answer to the replica of colleague Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64266	I absolutely believe you, colleague Salapic, that it has been a pleasure working with colleague Dragica Zgrebec who has done her job well. But I'm not sure she had the same pleasure working with you. That's one thing. As for the fear you're always talking about, we're not afraid, so no one's talking about fear, you're telling me in advance we're not afraid, so you're repeating Mrs. Kosor's words, but that's quite understandable, too. This isn't personal because you didn't take part in it, but for years, since 2004, people have been intimidated, fear sows, and now you reap exactly what you sow. You're afraid of yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64267	We're moving on to a final address. We've exhausted individual discussions or reports. On behalf of SDP, colleague Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64268	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club considers that the findings in the report, the documents and I would say the facts presented, and since we disagree with the conclusions of the majority, the SDP club is proposing its conclusions, so I will brief them once more. This is not only the SDP proposal but also the HNS-HSU, as well as the IDS club. 1st, the sale of 25%+1 shares is based on the INA Privatisation Act. All procedures were conducted publicly, and a Croatian Parliament was informed of the transaction and accepted the information. Contracts related to the sale of INA have been made public. Point 2. The President-in-Office of the Management Board, the INA Supervisory Board and the documents collected from the Management and Supervisory Board found that MOL did not exercise veto law on decisions relating to retained issues defined by the agreement on the mutual relations of shareholders. Point 3. In the short term, the Government of the Republic of Croatia carried out further stages of privatisation of the INA established by the Privatisation Act of the INA and thus enabled MOL to make 47.16% of the shares available by voluntary offer of takeover. By amending Article 921 of the obligation of a strategic investor to the Treaty on the Relations of Shareholders of 12 April 2007. The government of the Republic of Croatia allowed MOL to buy Tifon and thus allowed MOL in Croatia to become a competitor of INAs in the retail sales of oil derivatives. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not comply with Article 11. The INA privatisation law was reported by the Croatian Parliament on the privatisation of INA after 2003, in violation of the INA Privatisation Act. Amendments to the Treaty on the Relations of Shareholders are not subject to the 2003 agreement, and the change in the composition of the Management Board, i.e. the content of the retained issues, was at the expense of the Republic of Croatia because MOL is not the majority owner of the INA. Point 7. Management and supervision in INA from 2007 to 2009 was not even effective, resulting in poor business results, high debt, including over 2 billion kuna of unpaid road charges in fuel prices and unrealised development plans. The INA gas business is harmful to the Republic of Croatia because it takes the negative effects of the purchase and sale price, and INA remains one of the gas suppliers exploited in domestic gas fields. The purchase of gas warehouses around Plinacro, along with state guarantees, owed 100 million US dollars, thus improving the liquidity of INA, instead of investing those funds in a new gas storage facility because Croatia lacks storage capacity and thus jeopardising gas security. 9, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to initiate the procedure for amending the first amendment and supplementing the Treaty on the Relations of Shareholders relating to the INA-Industry of Oil in the section relating to management rights and retained issues, and in particular provisions governing the availability of INA assets. Point 10. The collected documents and testimony of witnesses shall be submitted to the DORH for further action and shall be charged to the DORH to report within 90 days to the Croatian Assembly on the measures concerning the issue under investigation by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64269	Thank you. HNS-HSU representative club Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64270	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. During this debate, a syntagm of politics was being pushed through. We are political parties and it is our right to speak politically, but the fact is that today we talked about arguments. The fact is, we were talking about arguments today. And fellow Roshin, was it long or not long, but given the problem we're talking about, I think each of us in our own personal responsibility should be concerned about what we have and what we've got. And I'm just going to tell you the gas, I'm not going to mention this at all. Therefore, colleague Roshin, this is not poetry, this is a very difficult and serious situation... I'm sorry, but I was... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your attitude, colleague. Therefore, the facts are very clear. I'll do it one more time just some. The Croatian Democratic Community had the opportunity to talk about privatising INA after 2003 but left the assembly. It's a fact, it's a fact. In this House, we could discuss behind 2003 the privatisation of INA every year that the Government of the Republic of Croatia respected the Law on Privatisation of INA, which states that once a year the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave the Parliament a report on the situation in the negotiations or privatisation procedures of the INA. The government of the Republic of Croatia did not respect the Croatian Parliament's decision from 2003 to today, and this speaks of the government's relationship to the Croatian Parliament. Laws, I'm sorry. And finally here are three questions, two questions one finding. First, why did the Government of the Republic of Croatia agree to hand over MOL to INA management rights when MOL is not a majority owner but is only the first largest. Because if MOL were the majority owner, then we shouldn't be discussing it at all. What would the deal be about, then? And by contract, we've transferred something to someone he's not entitled to. How to explain the reasons why the Government of the Republic of Croatia owned the INA, which at 45% level protected the changes in the share agreement far worse than the interests of MOL with 25 plus one, far worse. And in the end, we are not a court of law in the Bureau of Investigation. We have taken a step forward in illuminating the sale of INA and we at the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pensions Party are convinced that further work will continue on to illuminate the privatisation of INA by other state institutions. Among other things, it will establish a public suspicion that a management premium for the right to manage with a minority ownership package has been paid for something. Whether this is also the takeover of Podravka which is the subject of investigative actions, we expect the institutions of the state to give that information to citizens of the Republic of Croatia regardless of the degree of our politics, regardless of the degree of planting but certainly this Research Commission has established the facts that enlighten the entire system and give room for the institutions of the state to continue their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64271	On behalf of the HDZ club Goran Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We've heard different opinions here. The opposition thinks its position and they say it's illogical. It's not! The commission is a political body and the opposition has proposed political conclusions ahead of its parties, and the position has also proposed political conclusions because it is a political body. Of course, these conclusions differ and that they are even conflicting and that is logical and that we couldn’t agree on anything. And that makes sense. But there is one thing that we can agree on at least one conclusion together, although we have heard and challenged that conclusion, which is that the real work of the Committee has passed in a dignified environment, decent behaviour and that the President of the Committee of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec has done it on both sides and at a very professional level and extremely stable and I congratulate Mrs. Zgrebec on that. And I think as much as it has been our pleasure to work with you, that it is with us even though Mrs. Antičević... Different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd just like to briefly mention two things. Here are two contracts – the Shares Contract and the Shareholders' Relations Agreement. This Agreement on the Interrelationship of Shareholders has not been made available by another bidder. This text of the contract was offered to the already selected buyer MOL-U. The question arises, would OMW have known about such content to offer a higher price? Let's leave it in the air. Personally, I think you would. The fact that there were few errors and formal ones, but also content. The fact that he called himself a customer a strategic investor, which in no way is. The fact is, we didn't have all the contracts available. The government would probably have delivered them if she had them. Apparently, there aren't all the documents in the archives, no consulting companies' contracts, no competitions to publish the text of the contest. The social contract is also mentioned here, and it is said in point 225 that by approving and adopting the General Assembly of the Society's social contract and entering a social contract into the court register of the Commercial Court, some will follow. Social contracts don't exist or can exist when the words of the stock companies are like that third phantom contract, which is also nowhere to be found. I don't even know what this is about. So there's plenty left to hang in the air. When it comes to crime, counterpart Linic said he filed criminal charges. The impression is that they're criminals, and some other saints, and I don't think so. And those saints who destroyed the companies, made great losses, filed criminal charges against them. Turns out by the State's Attorney's Department's attitude towards them that they're not capable of committing any violations. Perhaps a violation of just the size of crossing roads in a place where there is no marked pedestrian crossing. But if that were the case then our companies would be better, more efficient, with more positive results, not very bad results. So fight crime but not selective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64273	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on all these proposals when the conditions are met. We'll continue tomorrow at the usual time at 9.30 p.m. I would like to remind you that at 12:00, there will be a vote, and the first item below will be the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Singapore Treaty or the tenth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-25-0.u64274	We move to the report on the work of the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the INA of the Oil Industry d.d. and all contracts and additions of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic partner of MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Plc, because these are all the keys that I am going to do now. Proposer Research Commission for the determination of facts regarding the privatisation of the INA of the oil industry, all contracts and additions of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic partner of the MOL. The debate is closed and I am giving the vote Conclusion: A report on the work of the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of INA of the Oil Industry d.d. is accepted. and all contracts and additions between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic partner of MOL Hungarian oil and gas plc. along with the proposed conclusions. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 71 votes for, nothing abstentions and 32 against. The SDP, HNS, HSU, IDS clubs proposed to the Croatian Assembly 11 conclusions. So, I am voting on the proposal to conclude three club representatives. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? These conclusions were not accepted, 31 votes for, 1 abstention and 69 against. Good morning, Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. We continue with the session and agenda point - Final proposal of the law on the confirmation of the Singapore Treaty on the right of trade mark, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 638 Proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to add an explanation of the proposal? Yeah. Mr Ruđer Friganovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
