ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54627	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. As the President of the Parliament was introduced by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system have established and submitted a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Introducing this is the fourth intervention in the first Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in the "Christmas Constitution", the Constitution that was adopted long ago on 22 December 1990 and with this fourth intervention including the previous three interventions in the Croatian Constitution, the intervention that was in '97. In 2000 and 2001, two interventions together with the "Christmas Constitution" consist of one architectural and constitutional building that surrounds the constitutional and legal terms of the main and basic Croatian strategic national objectives of all policies, all parties, all governments. So, the whole is now being realized by these last constitutional changes, rounding up and putting the "I" on the dress-up of all strategic goals of Croatian state policy. In 1990, the "Christmas Constitution" designed Croatia's path to a sovereign and independent state. If it hadn't been for the 1990 "Christmas Constitution" of the Republic of Croatia, there wouldn't have been that plebiscite referendum since 17 May 1991. the year when the Croatian people and citizens of Croatia plebiscitely declared themselves their own state. There would be no constitutional decision on Croatia's sovereignty and independence since 25 June '91. In the year, on the establishment of a sovereign and independent Republic of Croatia, there would be no "Christmas Constitution" or Decision on the termination of state-law bindings since 8 October 1991. A year. An intervention in the Christmas Constitution in '97. One key and important intervention has been made in the year, which prohibits the initiation of a procedure that could lead to or could lead to Croatia's association with another country until the renewal of a Yugoslav state community or the Balkan community. It was not a ban on association in a new Yugoslavia, as is sometimes spoken completely wrongly these days, but rather a ban on the initiation of a process for Croatia's association with another country to create some new, refurbishing of a new Yugoslav state community. The change in the Constitution in 2000 and 2001 had a key note and a key seal to transform Croatia into a semi-presidential system from a semi-presidential system to a parliamentary government, where the government's responsibility will be towards Parliament, and not towards the President of the Republic in that double track. It was a key focus of constitutional change in 2000 and 2001. Clearly along with those two unfortunate episodes where the amendment of the Constitution made one precedent where the current State Judiciary Council and the current President of the Croatian Supreme Court were abolished. And now we finally have these constitutional changes ahead of us, which are the result of a single synchronicism in the vast faith of the agreed consensus, and where through constitutional changes in most parts of the constitution, the alliance for Europe, the alliance of all parties, both left and right implementation and middle implementation is realised, where the strategic political goal of Croatia's entry into the European Union is being brought to life, so the European dream should also be translated into this constitutional change in the public. It is thus rounding up, as in the previous Christmas constitution and as in those previous interventions in the Constitution, they are surrounded at the constitutional level by strategic governmental objectives, sovereignty, independence, parliamentary democracy, constitutional values, the design of multilateral parliamentary democracy based on the rule of law and social justice ideals and the goal that is constantly pursued, and now through the focus of these constitutional changes, Croatia is to create assumptions and on the basis of the Constitution that it could conclude negotiations with the European Union, it can sign accession negotiations and that it could become a full member of the European Union. Thus, these constitutional changes primarily require such interventions in the Constitution that will allow for the adoption of certain 14 laws after them, which will mean the legal implementation of constitutional changes and the Croatian Legislative Corps. The same applies, these constitutional changes are also important for Croatia's role in, as members of the NATO Alliance, related to the role of the Croatian Armed Forces in NATO, as members of the NATO Alliance. And for this reason, these constitutional changes, as the crown, should be one of their own, put forward by this very fundamental, fundamental elements which will mean, on the one hand, the necessity of constitutional changes, which will result in legislative changes for Croatia's entry into the European Union, for the effective application of NATO membership, but have these constitutional changes and tasks and other natures that need to improve the quality of life of Croatian citizens and which should therefore make a certain step in certain areas of social life that will continue to be talked about. As outlined in the proposal for a decision to join on the amendment of the Constitution, the draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, adopted by the Croatian Parliament at its meeting on 10 June 2010, laid down the draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the text as proposed by it, as tabled by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system with the amendments adopted. The amendments specify the provision of article 7 of the draft section relating to the vote of Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia, and the vote of Croatian citizens who find themselves outside the borders of Croatia at the time of the elections. The provision of Article 12 relating to the obligation and the freeness of education has also been amended, and a new provision has been added to Article 134. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia prescribes technical culture as part of the competence of local self-government units. The amendments also specified the provision of Article 24 relating to the choice of constitutional judges, in such a way as to prescribe a time limit on the extension of the constitutional judge's term of office in the event that the new judge has not been elected or has not entered into office, and the provision of Article 18(2) which is proposed not to be voted on by the President of the Supreme Court in the annual report on the work of the judicial authority. The government has decided on this proposal to amend the Constitution, and I will, i.e. the Committee will take up the amendment of the government in a pause and demonstrate the amendment to the Government. The difference in the proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia compared to the draft referred to in Article 19. Suggestion. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system as an authorised promoter has adopted the initiative of the Association of Croatian Judges concerning the obligation to take part in the trial of judicial advisers. In particular, the Law on Courts and the Law on Criminal Procedure also enables court advisers to conduct proceedings under the supervision of judges, establish facts and publish decisions enabling the resolution of a large number of cases in courts and to reduce the number of pending cases. All amendments to the Constitution are contained in the draft amendments to the Constitution, can be systematised in 2 groups. One, amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia establishing a constitutional legal basis both for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and for the effective functioning of Croatia, and for the constitutional issues arising from the individual chapters of the negotiations with the EU, the independence of the CNB and the State Audit Office, the active and passive voting rights of EU citizens staying in the Republic of Croatia, the strengthening of independence, impartiality and professionality of the judicial authority, the effective implementation of the EU Council Framework Decision on the European Arrest Warrant. Then, constitutional issues that are not directly related to individual negotiating chapters relate to the modes of accession and functioning of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, the establishment of a constitutional basis for EU accession, a referendum on EU membership, the transfer of constitutional powers, participation in EU institutions, the direct impact and application of EU law, the relationship between legislative, executive and judicial authorities after obtaining EU membership and the position of EU citizens in the Republic of Croatia and the provision of their rights. Thirdly, the amendments and additions to the Constitution resulting from the initiatives of civil society associations and certain institutions as well as those proposed for compliance with the parliamentary practice of other countries. Afterwards, the addition of the original grounds by citing all national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, redefining the roles and actions of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the introduction of an institute of non-depreciation of war profits and those from the process of conversion and privatisation, the obligation and freeness of general education, the introduction of the right to access to information, redefine the institution of the Ombudsman, the adoption of the state budget, the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court, the exercise of the electoral right of Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic and their representation in the Croatian Assembly. The interpretation of the individual provisions of the Amendment to the Constitution is as follows: all national minorities shall be entered in Article 1 of the original basics. Article 2 of the proposed amendment provides that the law also includes EU law and gives the courts a constitutional basis to apply it directly. Sources of EU law include not only founding contracts but also secondary EU law. the legal rules that EU institutions lay down on the basis of founding contracts. These legal rules of the Regulation, of the Directive, decisions and other generally directly applicable to national courts, or parties to judicial proceedings, may be referred to them as a source of subjective rights. In addition, these amendments allow the application of the European Court of Justice practice which is also a source of law in the EU frameworks. This amendment also reflects the fact that courts judge on the basis of a significantly higher number of legal sources than those currently mentioned, but these changes do not establish a hierarchy of legal sources. It is particularly important that the proposal for constitutional changes relating to Article 3 of the proposal, namely the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in its current Article 7 states that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia protect its sovereignty and independence, defend its territorial integrity and that they can cross its borders or act beyond its borders only on the basis of a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Following the conclusion of the North-Atlantic Treaty, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are required to participate in collective defence. The attack on any other NATO member state will be considered an attack on the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will be mandatory to protect sovereignty and independence of the attacked state. The proposed constitutional definition of the Armed Forces, the role of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia includes 4 basic missions and the task of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. These are: protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, defence of the Republic of Croatia and its allies, participation in crisis response operations abroad, participation in measures to build security and trust, and assistance to civil institutions in the country. The provisions of Article 7 shall comply with the constitutional powers of the President of the Republic of Croatia as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces so as to prescribe a way of making decisions in the event that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia cross the state border for military missions and military action as part of obligations arising from NATO membership, for independent military action and for the permission of the Armed Forces of the Allies to cross the border for military missions and military action in the Republic of Croatia. In these cases, the decision shall be taken by the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the proposed, amendments to the amendments are also proposed to amend the majority necessary for the decision-making process with the practice of other countries as well as to commitments made by the Republic of Croatia to international organisations, and to comply with the constitutional powers of the President of the Republic as Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. It is thus proposed that the decision on the transition and action of the Armed Forces across the border, which the Croatian Assembly adopts in accordance with the powers, require most of all MPs, and, if the President of the Republic of Croatia has denied the necessary consent of the Croatian Assembly of Decisions of the proposed article, it shall take two-thirds of the votes of all MPs. In particular, situations are defined when the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia or the Armed Forces of the Allies cross the borders of the Republic of Croatia for military exercises, and training within international organisations and for humanitarian aid, in these cases the decision shall be taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments add a new item that prescribes that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia can be used to assist in fire protection, rescue and surveillance and protection of the rights of the Republic of Croatia at sea. In accordance with Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Proposal for an amendment to the Constitution, the Republic of Croatia should ensure the effective application of the so-called so-called "EU" until the date of accession to the European Union. European arrest warrant. The European arrest warrant shall be an instrument of mutual legal assistance to the Sui Genis governed by the Council of Europe Framework Decision of 13 June 2002 which has been adopted and applied by all Member States of the European Union under conditions and in a manner prescribed in the Council Framework Decision. As a means of judicial cooperation within the European Union, the European arrest warrant is based on mutual recognition of decisions by the judicial authorities of one Member State within the legal system of another Member State. Its realisation shall give the requested person to the competent judicial authority of another Member State which the person seeks either for the purpose of prosecution or for the purpose of the execution of the prison sentence. The relevant constitutional provision in Article 9 which does not allow the extradition of Croatian citizens to other countries constitutes a legal obstacle to the effective execution of the European arrest warrant from the date of accession to the European Union, i.e. to the full harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the Council of Europe's Framework Decision on the European Arrest Warrant. For those reasons, it is proposed to adapt that Article 9(2). The Constitution retaining the principle of banning enforcement as a provision of citizenship but also providing a constitutional and legal basis for the application of the European Arrest Order or for the adoption of an appropriate law which will be regulated in detail in accordance with the legal order of the European Union. The proposed amendment also allows the extradition of Croatian citizens by means of an international contract with a third country, which is currently provided for by the residents in Article 33. The Constitution for any proposals for the conclusion of such contracts in the future. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution shall be complemented by a new paragraph 4 which stipulates that there is no limitation for the crime of war profit, nor a criminal offence from the process of conversion and privatisation committed at the time of the Homeland War and of peaceful reintegration, war conditions and direct threats, independence and territorial integrity of the state, prescribed by the Law or by those which do not become obsolete under international law and determines that the property benefit achieved by those acts will be subtracted. This addition to the Constitutional text introduced the Institute of "non-depreciation of those offences" because those acts are considered to be in the public so in the professional circles of extremely difficult works for which it is necessary and justifiable to deny the application of those offences in particular, bearing in mind the time and circumstances of the initiation and the consequences caused. In addition to Article 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution, which has the right to access information owned by public authorities, becomes a constitutional right and thus lays down the basis for its consistent legislative implementation. The constitutional basis for legal restrictions on access to information which must comply with the principle of proportionality of restrictions shall also be laid down so that it is proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each individual case in accordance with the provision of Article 16(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Although civil society organisations have set out the criteria for confidentiality when proposing this provision as the only criterion for the right to access information, legal examination of restrictions should respect international documents, and in particular the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents, as set out in Article 3, each State Party may restrict the right of access to official documents. The restrictions must be explicitly stated by law and be necessary in a democratic society and proportionate to the purpose of protection. National security, defence and international relations, public security, prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences, disciplinary proceedings, inspections, control and supervision by public authorities, privacy and other legitimate private interests, commercial and other economic interests of the economic and currency exchange rate of the state, equality of parties in judicial proceedings and the efficiency of the judiciary, environmental protection and dispersion within the public authorities of a case. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Parties should set a time limit after the restrictions referred to in paragraph 1 have ceased to apply. This initiative has been implemented, these are initiatives of civil society associations and the amendment has been made to the SDP Representatives Club proposal. Article 7 of the Amending Article 45 regulates the voting rights of Croatian citizens in the elections for the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia, the elections for the European Parliament and the decision-making process in the national referendum. It is proposed that Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia exercise their electoral right at polling stations in the headquarters of diplomatic and consular representations in the foreign country where they reside and that they have the right to elect three representatives in the elections for the Croatian Parliament. In this way, the current electoral model was abandoned by which Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia chose a number of MPs who were dependent on the number of votes cast in the elections in the Republic of Croatia. The provision retains an existing solution on the exercise of Croatian citizens' voting rights with residence in the Republic of Croatia, which is located outside its borders at the time of the elections, with those citizens also voting in the headquarters of diplomatic and consular representations. In addition to Article 8. Proposal to amend the Constitution of the legal property of the European Union under Chapter 17. Economic and monetary policy requires full institutional, functional, personal and financial independence of the central banks of the Member States. This shall be specified in particular in Articles 130 and 131 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Articles 7 and 14. The Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. Therefore, in the form of a closure measure, the European Union has requested the Republic of Croatia to coordinate its legal framework in order to ensure the full independence of the Croatian National Bank in accordance with the requirements of the acquis and to allow the integration of the Croatian National Bank into the European System of Central Banks. Mr. President, I need a few more minutes. I'd like you to approve, that the Parliament approves that I can extend the time to finish this exhibit in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54628	I think since it's the Constitution that we can allow an additional few minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54629	Thank you. In its joint position of December 2008, the European Union stressed the need for the Republic of Croatia to adapt accordingly to the existing constitutional provision on the status and position of the Croatian National Bank prior to accession as part of the planned constitutional changes. This primarily refers to the need to highlight the independence of the Central Bank with simultaneous discharges, to indicate the responsibilities of the Croatian National Bank to the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the requirements of legal gain. For that reason, it is also proposed to amend Article 53. The Constitution. Article 9 is proposed and a new Article 53a of the Constitution is introduced which regulates the issue of the independent position of the State Audit Office as the most audit institution of the Republic of Croatia. The independent position of the State Audit Office is now governed only by the State Audit Act. As an additional guarantee of the independent position of the State Audit Office in accordance with the recommendations of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions, and in particular with the recommendations of the Lima and Prague Declaration, the European Union requested, in the form of a criterion for closing Chapter 32, to ensure and maintain the independence of the State Audit Office in this supplement of the Constitution. In accordance with Articles 10 and 11 of the proposed articles, the terms and conditions of Articles 57 and 64 shall be harmonised. The Constitution with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Faculty Protocols to the Convention. In addition to Article 12. The amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia belong to a group of European countries with the shortest compulsory education in Europe for 8 years. In this respect, it should be noted that persons leaving the compulsory education system from 14 years of age cannot be employed in practice, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Minimum Age for Employment and Provisions of Article 21. The labour law prohibiting the work of persons under the age of 15. In addition, the recommendations of the European Competence Framework assume a longer acquisition of basic competences than eight years of primary education, while for individual professional professions under the application of the European Union Directives, the obligation to ensure the basic acquisition of general education and basic competences for 10 years is foreseen. In order to prepare as many young people as possible for the challenges that bring about a period of constant technological change and innovation, it is necessary to extend the duration of compulsory education until the 16th year of life. One of the main obstacles to this objective is the existing Article of the Constitution, which limits compulsory education to elementary school and proposes to amend this article in this respect. And finally, in Article 14. The proposal to amend the Constitution is amended in paragraph 4 of Article 86. The constitution in a way that the referendum decision requires most of the voters who have joined the referendum. In addition, paragraph 6 proposes the possibility of legal regulation of the conditions for holding an advisory referendum. Article 15 The proposal for an amendment is proposed to supplement Article 90. The Constitution in a way that the state budget as an extremely important act is adopted by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The proposed amendment to Article 92 of Article 16 lays down a constitutional framework for further legal examination of the powers of the Advocate General. In particular, the powers of the Advocate General in the case of individual cases of protection of the rights of citizens are limited by law to the authorities of the state and local administrations and bodies with public authority, and only by administrative authorities and other legal entities can be dealt with only through administrative authorities. The proposed amendments would remove doubts as to the possibility of the attorney-general's powers being established by law. It is also proposed that the public defender and all representatives of the Croatian Parliament for the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms have immunity as well as representatives of the Croatian Parliament. This proposal by the Committee on the Constitution which found that the President of the Supreme Court submitted a report once a year on the work of the judicial authority and that the report was not voted on by the Government. The Committee on the Constitution will show itself at its meeting after the debate has been concluded on the amendment to the government. In addition to Articles 19, 20 and 21, it is necessary to further strengthen and develop the constitutional principle of independence of the judicial authority and to lay down high criteria and responsibilities for the holders of those authorities. The objective criteria of designation are key to achieving a transparent, efficient and professional judiciary, so the amended provisions provide indicative guidance on how a person can perform this extremely important constitutional duty. Amendments to this Regulation complement the constitutional provisions in force in the sense that the approval of the State Judicial Council is also necessary for the determination of an investigative prison for judges. The proposed amendment in Article 122 shall delete the paragraph which provides for exceptions to the rule that the judicial duty is permanent, by establishing that the first degree of judicial duty shall be appointed by the Judges on a time of 5 years and after the re-nomination shall carry out their duties on a permanent basis. The removal of the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article is related to the establishment of a State School for Judicial Officers to ensure the prior selection of candidates and education of future judges, and to ensure a transparent and objective choice of judges. For these reasons, it is no longer necessary for judges to be appointed at the first stage of court duty in time of 5 years. In particular, Articles 22 and 23 regulates the new way the composition and election of the State Judicial Council as an independent and independent body of the judicial authority, as well as the State Attorney's Council. The choice of the Constitutional Court judges has already been made. So, after six months, he can still act as the Constitutional Court judge to whom the term of office has expired. Right to local and regional self-government of citizens, citizens of the European Union. This amendment allows, yes, citizens of EU member states to have active and passive voting rights on the day of Croatia's accession to the European Union in elections for representative bodies of units of local, regional (regional) self-government not for executive bodies. So, just for the councils and councils. In particular, Article 141 of the constitutional basis for the accession of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of the referendum is laid down. I should especially point out why the Committee on the Constitution has adopted and established such a decision. The current constitutional standard for a positive outcome of the referendum requires a very strict majority, most of the vote by all voters in the country. Such an expression creates a situation in which each going out on a referendum, each abstinence represents a vote against. Given the large number of Croatian citizens enrolled in the electoral lists that do not live in the Republic of Croatia, and taking into account the high percentage of electoral abstinence of such voters, there is a danger that a referendum that would be organised on the basis of the existing constitutional norm would not provide a realistic picture of the will of the electoral body, and that number of voters who did not respond to the referendum would have a major impact on its outcome. The accession referendum must ensure the legitimacy of such a decision as the basis for membership in the European Union, and therefore it is necessary to ensure that the voter's actual will is expressed in the referendum. This objective is to ensure that the lower limit of the minimum voter turnout guarantees the legitimacy of the referendum. It is therefore proposed to set the lower threshold as the majority of voters who have joined the referendum. The new Chapter VIIa of the European Union prescribes everything that is fundamentally agreed with, essentially, the Croatian Parliament. It is therefore prescribed, and the legal basis for membership in the European Union, the objectives and values of the European Community, the amendments and additions to the contractual framework, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law, the relationship of the legislative, executive and judicial authority, the direct effect of the law of the European Union applied by courts and other public bodies. Finally, the proposal is the adoption of a constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution within six months of the date of the amendment of the Constitution which will develop the application of provisions of the Constitution which cannot be applied directly. And finally, by this provision of Article 30. The proposal to amend the Constitution lays down the entry into force of the amendment to the Constitution which enters into force on the date of its declaration, with the provisions of Article 4 relating to the European Arrest Order on the basis of the legal property of the European Union, Article 25 and the additional articles of Chapter 25 of the European Union shall enter into force on the date of acquisition, on the date of accession of Croatia to the European Union, and the other provisions shall enter into force on the day of the declaration of the Constitution, while the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution will decide which laws are to be adopted and in order to bring certain constitutional provisions to life. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, this is a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which was unanimously established by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system at its session yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54630	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. The first is Mr. Agent Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54631	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, I'd like to intervene on two incorrect allegations. The first is that it is a democratic proposal of the Constitution. Namely, the basis of any modern democratic constitution is the equality of citizens, i.e. there must be no difference between citizens on the basis of any ethnicity, any other differences between citizens including residence. This amendment leaves the concept of equality of all citizens and introduces three categories of citizens. One with one vote, the other representatives of national minorities who will have two votes and the third category of citizens are those who are resident outside the Republic of Croatia who will be entitled to a possible one-sixty vote. Another incorrect allegation is that strategic interests are protected, as such constitutional changes lead to a imbalance between the diaspora position and the national minorities and this practical change is the Constitution of the Croatian diaspora which has greatly advocated the creation of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54632	Correction, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54633	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. You said the proposal to change the Constitution was actually the product of the agreement. That's only partly true, namely two details that say it's not exactly true. The first is that the Committee on the Constitution, including you, was kind of behind the back yesterday, because yesterday was a committee session, the government decided that five new amendments would be inserted across the board, which mainly contain the constitutional spine, and we still don't have a position of the Constitutional Committee at all. So only today after we start discussing this whole matter will we know what the Committee on the Constitution, which is the key point for the agreement of the majority, the minority in Parliament, is even thinking about this constitutional spine. And the other thing is, the idea that the Constitutional Law on the Implementation of the Constitution is not passed until six months, and this justifies the need to adopt amendments to the whole series of laws is contradictory. Isn't it precisely logical that the Constitutional Law on the Implementation of the Constitution allows for all these laws to be amended and the agreement was that the constitutional law goes parallel with the Constitution, not only after 6 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54634	Thank you. Does the Prime Minister want to further explain the changes to the Constitution? - Amen. Here you go, Madam President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54635	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Representatives and Representatives. Here I am just here to further explain the amendments made by the Government yesterday, at yesterday's session, along with a proposal to amend the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. Certainly, Mr. Beuss, that the government has not thrown anything over the board, the government as you know you have your constitutional right to make decisions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament, and in this case the final decision is on Croatian MPs and MPs. Therefore, I would like to explain five proposals for the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which, of course, we have the right and which are certainly in line with life in Croatia today. What I want, just very briefly once again pointed out... The Government of the Republic of Croatia, in this important and I would say even a solemn moment for all of us, for the Croatian Government, for the Croatian Parliament, but also for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, is that we are close to the conclusion of a big deal, that I think we and the fact that the negotiations as you see them and as you know are going in a very good and desirable direction, that we will probably open at the end of this month and all three chapters, a large part of the rest of the Spanish presidency, but that we have removed all the obstacles that were left on the way to opening the three chapters, I think they give us all additional strength to complete this job with the will and certainly in the time that we planned. [[You don't understand.]] So the government has proposed an amendment, that is to say, at its session of a unanimous amendment, which we propose to supplement the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so that the new Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the victory of Croatian defenders in the fair, legitimate and liberating Homeland War has shown their determination and willingness to establish and preserve the Republic of Croatia as an independent, independent, sovereign and democratic state. I believe that this amendment is in fact merely a finding of a generally accepted fact, which is that thanks to the victory of Croatian defenders in the Homeland War, the Republic of Croatia is truly independent, independent, absolutely certainly democratic and European, and thanks to this very victory of Croatian defenders, we are today negotiating Croatia's entry into the European Union, that thanks to that fact today we are proud of the NATO alliance. Furthermore, the government proposes that the amendment to the Constitution complement the article 57, which provides for the protection of Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disabled, widows, parents and children of dead Croatian defenders. And I believe that there is no dispute in Croatian society, no doubt about it, and there are no different opinions. Furthermore, we propose a new Article 16a in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to regulate, namely, the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia's advisory, professional and other affairs, and that the establishment and part-time office be governed by the President of the Republic of Croatia by his decision. In addition, the Office of the President of the Republic and the Professional Service of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be determined to cooperate in the performance of joint-interest operations and to provide resources for the work of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia under the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. I think that this amendment also resolved all the doubts, all the recommendations that existed in the last days in the Croatian public, especially in political life. I must say that I co-ordinated this amendment personally with the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Josipovic. Therefore, the fourth amendment is therefore a proposal for a change, i.e. it concerns a proposal to amend the Constitution. The government believes that that provision, which in the amendment provided for the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament without voting on the report, does not need to be complemented by provisions on the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in this way. We think it would cause unnecessary debates on the full independence of the judicial authority in Croatia. So since the constitutional order is based on the division of power, or the trio of power, we think this is unnecessary and we suggest that this is, therefore, the provision provided for in the amendment to the Constitution that the Supreme Court submits a report to the Croatian Parliament, that it is unnecessary and we propose that it be deleted. Finally, the 5th amendment concerns the final provisions on the entry into force of the Constitution, so as to determine that the amendment to the Constitution takes effect on the date of its declaration, with the exception of Article 4(4) in the part relating to the execution of the decision on surrender, in accordance with the legal property of the European Union. We believe that the amendment is necessary in order to separate the moment of entry into force, the works of a provision that opens up the possibility of extradition of its own citizens by means of concluded international contracts from the part of the provision relating to the European arrest warrant. In fact, this proposal opens up the possibility of handing over Croatian citizens on the basis of contracted international agreements because we think that in the modern world in which we live organised crime and corruption truly do not know the borders, and criminals abuse the existing situation and, unfortunately, I repeat, avoid criminal processing. We therefore propose that, therefore, that this part of the provision enters into force on the day of the amendment of the Constitution and that, on the basis of this amendment, the Constitution may also be extradited to its own citizens on the basis of the same international contracts. I must announce here that immediately after the amendment of the Constitution, when the Constitution enters into force, the Ministry of Justice will launch all the mechanisms already in preparation for the conclusion of such agreements and in some concrete cases which we are talking about in Croatia today, which we are witnessing and that, based on the amended Constitution and the agreed agreements, or a concrete agreement with the Republic of Serbia will be resolved in a very short time and some current cases. And certainly the proposal in this second part is that the part relating to the European arrest warrant enters into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. Mr. President, I suggest, despite the fact that the SDP colleagues did not want to listen to what the government is proposing, that the Croatian Parliament accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54636	Thank you very much. Let's get some corrections. The first is Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54637	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Madam Prime Minister said one lie, which is that the independence of the judicial authority in Croatia, I say it is quite different and that the Supreme Court... This also shows the latest, latest developments in Croatia after "the captain with a small vitre" and is the best way to talk about the independence of the Croatian judiciary. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, you're looking for a deal, and at the same time you refuse to compromise. Today, the Croatian Constitution needs to protect workers and bring down this referendum for 10% of signatures... The most dangerous in Croatia, and in Croatia you are not the only ones working. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you get paid by those workers, that's what you said the other day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54638	Correction, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54639	Dear Madam Prime Minister, you said that, and it also says in the amendment you proposed, that Croatian defenders won the Homeland War. I'd remind you that's not true. Croatian citizens, Croatian people, Croatian political people... Some of them served their homeland in military and police units, and others, according to their capabilities, were in civil protection and worked fairly in their jobs to achieve an economic basis for victory. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Among them are all Croatian pensioners whom the state had to admit to taking their money. Let's not diminish the contribution of all people. And those who were powerless in the Homeland War. We do not share the Croatian people with your political spine in the Constitution. That's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54640	Correction, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54641	Dear President, we have listened very closely to what the Prime Minister said, and therefore I am very precisely correcting her allegations that by entering the Constitution of the provision that once a year the President of the Supreme Court reports to the Parliament on his work was, I quote: "the full independence of the judicial authority is at stake." This is an incorrect allegation, because the Croatian Constitution in Article 4 in which it speaks of the division of government does not mention the full independence of any government but says that the principle of government division is the principle which includes forms of mutual cooperation and mutual verification of the holder of the government. That's why this House five days ago, which is why, unanimously, it has made a decision that the Government is now seeking to adjudicate with its amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54642	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening a debate. Are you representatives? No, there isn't. Then the first in line on behalf of the SDP club is Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go. ... I'm asking Mrs. President to be my guest, and I'm asking you to be patient. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. ... Well, it's nice, at least take a picture together. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54643	Here, thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Representative Milanovic, for letting me just have a brief reference. I have a need, I think it will help you in your final decision on what Mr. MP Vinkovic said about the fact that I made a lie when I spoke about the independence of the courts in the Republic of Croatia. You will have to prove this to Mr Vinkovic, I believe that Croatian courts are independent and that thanks to this fact we have received signals that we will successfully open Chapter 23 because we have achieved a series of important successes in this area. I successfully refer to everything that is important and good in changes for Croatian citizens and for citizens. Certainly a reform strong in the Croatian judiciary, a reduction in half of the outstanding cases, and I remind you that last year we witnessed 138% more convictions for corrupt crimes than it was in 2008. So these are some arguments I'd like you to accept. As regards the thinking and opposition of Mr. Beus Richembergh, regarding the Government's proposal to be on the original grounds, and then, of course, by changing one article, particular attention to the Croatian defenders, I'm just telling you that Croatian defenders, Mr. Representatives of the Republic of Croatia, would have to know, but not all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have defended the country and not all citizens of the Republic of Croatia had the courage and the wisdom and determination to stand in the defense of their homeland and go to a lot of tennis really on the first lines, to lose many lives and to do so, we would like to warn in some way that Mr. Parliament is a historical fact, and that the Homeland War for you is clearly not, you have the right to do so, and for the fact that the Homeland War was defensive, fair and liberatively declared in all of the Croatian Parliament by adopting the Declaration of the Homeland War, and we are only making these findings in the Croatian Constitution today. But it should be kept in mind that many have avoided defending Croatia, that many have hid themselves, that many have fled abroad, and that is also the fact that we need to talk about today. As for this finding by Mr Milanovic, concerning the Supreme Court, I remind the respected colleague of the decision of the General Meeting of the Supreme Court, where it is unanimously proposed that this provision in the amendment proposal of the Constitution be deleted, that this was not adopted in the circles of the judicial authority, and that it is also important, because we are amending the Constitution and that many of the provisions would be adapted to the fact that we are entering the European Union, there are no such provisions in most European Union countries. So, in order for the Supreme Court to answer in some way, or to file reports to Parliament, I ask you to accept these facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54644	Thank you very much. We have two corrections, first Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54645	Well, I'll do it right now, I won't fix it, I'll do it on the so-called.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54646	It's a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54647	I'll answer to Mrs. Kosor right away. In Croatia, there is indeed... Leave this sound to work, be so cultural. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] The Constitutional Court judges are elected by this Parliament, or by the majority in this House, so HDZ... Self-government, and I don't know what. ... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54648	This isn't a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54649	This is the correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs Kosor said that the Croatian judiciary... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54650	There's a claim here that some people have never mentioned. As hard as I try to discuss constitutional changes, anyone can get a word and say something, let's not abuse at least so much this institute correcting an incorrect quote please nicely. Correction of an incorrect quote also exists. Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54651	Dear President, Article 209 has been injured. I think the time has come for us in this House to finally have to make order. What is the correcting of an incorrect quote is the correcting of an incorrect allegation. It is not possible for MPs to rise and say that he refers to something under the syntagm of an incorrect allegation that is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, he must be taken away from the word and assigned a reminder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54652	It's all true what you said to the vice president, I tried to get used to it here, but I can't stop anyone when he's talking, I don't know how to stop, but now we have further injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so let's say there are Mrs. Ivanka Roksandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54653	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think it's really time, because Mr. Vinkovic hurt our Rules of Procedure in 209 did not correct any incorrect allegations, but expressed his opinion, even commented and debated. Therefore, there is an article 210, so it would really be our turn to teach the Rules of Procedure after a number of years and stick to this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54654	Thank you very much. We have another injury, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54655	Mr. President, you're the first to break the Rules of Procedure. The first thing I need is... That I've violated that it's not the Rules of Procedure, not this circus. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54656	As you all know who you are and those who look at us and listen I tried to get used to you, however, I failed and you disobeyed me. I tried to warn you that you left the framework of the Rules of Procedure, however, you continued to speak. I try to comply with good habits for us to behave here, but if you don't see any effect when they share a reminder in this regard, I ask that we all follow the rules of the Rules of Procedure. There's still a correction to the incorrect assumption here, no. You? Mr. Zoran Milanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54657	Thank you. I am correcting the arbitrary and incorrect assumption that the decision on the Supreme Court and the obligation of the President of the Supreme Court to report to the Croatian Parliament once a year is not well received, arbitraryly and incorrectly. It is well received and I call once again, I will talk to the speaker about that in this Chamber when we change the Constitution and when we show political will or poor judgment we do not call on the Supreme Court meetings, we do not call on the Supreme Court because these are not the bodies in which the Croatian Constitution is changed, and these are not bodies with all due respect and independence which this Parliament is acting on except when it comes to a verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54658	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic, whom I once again apologize to for interrupting him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54659	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for your apology, although it is not necessary because all that is needed for this speaker was fully in line with the formal procedure or little of the procedure, all that contributes to making all the views clear and to making this important decision without any questionnaires, commas, three points, no dilemmas, all is welcome so that, if necessary, the Prime Minister may, after these amendments yesterday, get involved several more times in the debate. It will be good to explain exactly what we have agreed so far, what we have discussed, what is the context of these agreements, so also in the letter of the Constitution, but also in the context of the letter of the Constitution, because tomorrow these courts that you mention by the basis of your and our intensities will interpret this right, more or more successfully. And that's why I repeat again, this is where the Constitution changes. On the basis of various initiatives, civil society, defence associations, government amendments completely legitimate, but decision is made here and no one can condition it, nor can the Supreme Court of Croatia. He can talk about it before, but he shouldn't. Neither the Strasbourg court nor the Luxembourg court nor the Hague tribunal. The Croatian Constitution is being brought here. A colleague, Beus, said that the government's amendment, or the government's five amendments, were notified yesterday afternoon that they were placed across the board. A bit of a rough metaphor, but I can conclude that the government's procedure is on the one hand in accordance with formal rules, but on the other hand extremely unusual. That's what respected Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, if it comes to your portfolio, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, is not working that way. For a few reasons, it's not working. All we have agreed so far or reached a compromise is the fruit of months of debate, agreements, misunderstandings, reunions. All these topics were open. Some of these topics you have proposed to your amendments, which are valuable, far-reaching, for me in some way and unquestionable, have not been on the negotiating table so far. See, that's why I don't think that's how it's done. I'll also say a word about the content of all these amendments. So, not over the board, not through the panel, but actually around the board, and that panel shouldn't be, it should be torn down. We should have talked about this earlier. And now you, on the day that we need to adopt the amendments to the Constitution, I don't know why, maybe because to challenge conflict, I believe it's not a motive, you're giving five amendments, five in a number of new topics that we need to discuss here and already make a decision today. Well, it's just that they're unquestionable, that prima facie is clear, so shouldn't we talk about it for at least a week? Do you have any advice on how to react now? We will not afford conflict, we believe that we have reached agreement on all important issues and you come with five amendments. Then let's talk about these amendments. That is, before these amendments, our proposal will be our amendment, but we have announced it, you all know about it, and as far as the conditions under which the referendum is being called, so vote against it. But it has not been thrown over the board or around the board, we have been talking about it for a long time, and obviously we do not think the same in this situation where Croatia shows a certain mood. Whether we're afraid of the people or we're going to make rules that will be strict, clear, that's the order that someone's talking about today, but the order needs to be introduced in the state, then in the Parliament, or we're going to say no. It's up to you today to decide. But let's get on with your amendments now. Preamble of the Croatian Constitution. The defenders instead of the current provision, which is the provision of the late President Tudjman, who says "the new Constitution of the Croatian Republic of the 1990s and the victory of the Homeland War, the Croatian people, expressed their determination". Now it moves and adds "to the victory of the defenders in the Homeland War". Listen, you know we won't be against the defense attorneys, and when we ask for a registrar's publication, we're for the defense attorneys. So you expect us to vote on it today, and yesterday afternoon you put it in on the procedure and on the basis of the initiative of an association. Not your initiatives, meaning associations, so the association has sent her to the government and the government has at the same time sent it to the Parliament. I don't think the state should function that way, but it's still hard for me to be, it's hard for us to be against such a noble provision. Or, for example, the provision to mention special care for defenders, widows, their families, children, etc. in the article 57. You can't be against it. Someone says it's a positive discrimination, so it creates several categories of citizens. The Constitution already knows some segments of positive discrimination where some values, some categories, some relationships such as family, parenting particularly stands out and raises them for the category more. So, and it's basically something that no healthy heart can take away. And is that exactly how it's done, or maybe you expect us to say no, I don't know. I mean, don't draw the conclusion that we're being malicious so we can say that in Croatia, someone could be malicious, it's not you, that they're making laws, that they just drum up overnight, to throw themselves over the board, literally across the board. And about tax reforms or changes and about HTV overnight, across the board and then giving up on them. So, so much for now. Supreme Court. Well, colleagues and colleagues, four, five days ago, as far as it was, I don't remember well because I'm making a lot of loose money on my salary, but I'm trying to remember, but I know, I was on vacation with my colleague Shakespeare, right, we agreed, we'll say the same thing, we agreed unanimously... Well, only if your board's work is in front of 20 journalists and surveillance cameras, it's not for me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Maybe that's what your experience says, but mine doesn't. It's a public activity for me. And here we have made a unanimous decision that the Supreme Court, or its President, in accordance with Article 4 of the Croatian Constitution, which I will read again: "The principle of government division includes forms of mutual cooperation and mutual checks by the holder of the authorities". So who's above Parliament? In accordance with the provision that the Constitution obliges the President of the Supreme Court not to submit a report once a year, we have facilitated this, reports the Croatian Parliament on the work of the judicial authority. Point. That's the point I asked for to be clear the next sentence, and the next sentence is: the report is not voted. What's so controversial about that? Well, that was also done by a state attorney who's also an independent and independent body. However, I understand what the problem is, but I must stress that the judicial authority should be protected from the executive authority, from phone conversations, from last-minute agreements, not from you, not from the representation of the government that determines the budget and rules of the game and which once a year the President of the Supreme Court, whatever he and the people elected not in the elections, but indirectly think about it. And we'll stand for it. You know what, he doesn't have to go into the Constitution today, he doesn't have to. And the Constitution doesn't even have the obligation of the attorney general to come to Parliament, it's not in the Constitution, but it exists in the law. And there's a law because it's not unconstitutional and because the Constitutional Court can't take it down and it won't bring it down, so if it's awkward for you, I don't know the reasons, and you voted for it in good conscience, you get a paycheck for it, and you guys and I'm gonna wipe it out fine. Okay. We'll get it back into the law when we're the majority in this House soon, we'll put it in the law. But don't do it, don't do it, you're wrong. You're wrong, you're not right. You're not right. You're not right. It is in line with the Croatian Constitution. That's it. We made a deal about the rest. I'm glad you accepted our suggestion about the President's Office. Reason prevailed, we think it was a good thing, and I'm glad you made a deal with the President of the Republic. That's where we played the role of humble mediators. Let's go earn our salary, pay off our loans. I'm leaving today, I'll be here by the last minute today. The SDP club is available, everyone's here. I'm gonna go make a paycheck in Brussels, go to the leader and prime minister's dinner on the left. There I will try to fight for Croatia as far as these chapters go. I can't promise miracles, but it's a message to everyone not to promise miracles, to sign real collective agreements and not to touch laws like the Law of Labour as if it were the Penal Code. These are not laws showing political will. And the last message and the last call, though I know I'm knocking on a very blind door. Think about those 5% for a referendum with the fuses that you can't really vote on. Because now I'm going to tell you something. Tomorrow, when you are a minority in this House, we will propose amendments to the Constitution in exactly this way, just like this, that 5% should be signed for a referendum, so we will see if you will be against it. We'll see about that. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54660	Thank you very much. We have a few corrections. First Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54661	Thank you very much. I would correct the inaccuracy of my colleagues when he said that at the proposal of an association, the Government had made an amendment in which the defenders entered the amendment. This was not the proposal of any association, but the coordination of associations of Croatian defenders, which includes all associations that entered this coordination. It's a large number of associations, so it's an incorrect quote. Another incorrect allegation is that in the next term you will be in the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54662	Thank you. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54663	I wanted to correct the incorrect allegations where Mr Milanovic addressed the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system telling him that he wanted to delete this provision on the Supreme Court. And before us is the amendment of the government, the government offers the Parliament, and then it's up to the Parliament and the board to decide. So unanimously it was concluded, it was unanimous. So you were wrong, and it's not true. And the second incorrect quote in the last part of your argument is that we're going to be a minority, I think you're completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54664	Thank you. Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardić, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54665	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Milanovic said several times in his presentation that he received a salary and works for a salary. It is an incorrect quote, because as much as it is and when it is done it is seen, the Croatian government is responsible for it. So, to receive it regularly is the merited Croatian government headed by Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. But the president of the Social Democratic Party said that it was only the president of the Social Democratic Party to be honored.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54666	Please! You know what, pay demining is a payday. So one said he had a 350-square-square apartment, so he did. 350 squares looks less than squares, you know. Thank you. Let's move on. It's up to IDS Club and Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54667	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Prime Minister. Have a good trip! Your Honor, gentlemen, the MPs. Here is Croatia ahead of another constitutional change. Our constitution was created, better said to change into four steps that he spoke of just before and Mr. Shakespeare. So, the Constitution of the 1990s was a constitution that wanted to apostrophe a divergence from a socialist arrangement, but also emphasize democratic sanctity as a trick in freedom of choice of speech, entrepreneurship, multilaterals, independence of institutions etc. And I agree that without that "Christmas Constitution" it would hardly be a declaration of independence and everything she followed. In '97, '98. years, so in the years I say Tudjman's disease, and that was all after the end of the Homeland War, by adventure in Bosnia, by conversion. It is my impression that these amendments were brought to light by Tudjman's frustrations, so at some point this House was given that shameful name that the Parliament wore only in the time of '41. By '45. There is an expression of conflict with almost everyone I would say in this world from Bosniaks to Slovenians who lose their place in preamble. Clearly, it should also be pointed out that even in Slovenia our Croats do not recognise indigenousity, and then as Mr Shex mentioned, the ban on association in the ex-Yugoslav Association is introduced. We know how it was waiting for some, etc. The third block of the change is that block from 2000 to 2001 when it is a semi-presidential structure, I replace it with a semi-legislative one, I call it, which I think will last until the moment that the MPs in this House are elected directly as the president of the state and the mayor of Zagreb and 20 mayors and 127 mayors and 429 mayors are elected. When we choose directly, I am sure that there will be no one above the Parliament then, to paraphrasing some former representatives other than God, then they will really not choose anyone over the Parliament. Can it calm down a little bit? This one, apart from the Constitution, the people, may one day be smuggled into this House, but two or more times that would be almost impossible and then Parliament would become the central place of political decision, and not just a voting and fulfilling machine of all government whims. At that time, it would not be possible to say that the government is raping democracy, ordering or Croatian broadcasting will be our service or it will be nothing, then it would not happen to go into battle with trade unions around the Labour Act, showing that it is a battle of employers and trade unions, aside from which employers did not seek it. It is also true that there is no money, there is likely to be even less money in this country for the public sector, because somewhere around 8.7% of the total number of Croatian citizens has been employed today in this public service, etc. Finally, in these third changes, these third-month authorities have shown some kind of fear, have not returned Bosniaks, Slovenians, which is a shame, and now we are coming to these fourth changes and I see them as preparing Croatia for a referendum on the European Union, although in these changes today there are populist flossules that will never be realized, and one of these is unfortunately a revision of conversion. Of course I'm up for review, but it's never gonna happen in this country, and it's a simple political flossula. Who in this country is going to revise the conversion? We intend citizens extra, let's say poor property tax, I've always been against that tax, because it's going to turn into a tax on the poor. Why? Because I don't know that period until '91, maybe Tito was built in Croatia somewhere around 400 thousand apartments, somewhere around 200 thousand housing loans are divided, and I'm sure that somewhere around 200 thousand people have inherited agricultural properties, and that they have an apartment somewhere outside of the place, this one where it is, and these people will come under the legislator's hit. Think about it, clearly no one did, if I were to tax the cottages, Ferrari, Porsches, or yachts, think about it the same way whether, as I know Tito and Stepinco when I mentioned it, I should have raised the bust in this House, had them both, this President Tudjman in his office, had them Mesic for 10 years, now I was up at Josipovic's and he was holding you, so why wouldn't they be in the Assembly. But let's put the joke aside now, there won't be any audits, we'd be wiser to introduce property taxes in this country or, for example, to. Taxes tourism land, not to give our tycoons just this year through that form someone from the country more than 100 million euros. And I'm sorry there isn't a president here who promised that the law would be in front of the MPs, but it hasn't come to this day. And that's why I'm saying that gentlemen, this revision of conversion and privatisation is simply one political flossula, because the government doesn't want it. Why say gentlemen, then, when we see how this is done with the Government's amendments, we'll protect, say, protected tenants in the Constitution, so that's the most unfortunate category of citizens in Croatia today. Why don't we introduce that we're going to build an unaccompanied, collapsed buildings out of the war-torn areas, change the Law on Mandatory Relations, etc., etc. One word and the war should end, clearly that Croatia was a victim of aggression. I have nothing against this amendment, which the government is now proposing to apostrophe the defence position. It is good that it would not have happened to them in 10 or 15 years for them to pass as NOR fighters, but all in all again I will say this war should in some way end, Croatia was a victim of aggression, if some recipient did not know how to shoot at others, crash, etc., for that too one of the condicio sons of qua non, European entry, Croatian entry into the European Union. But the point of these changes is, in my opinion, those related to the European Union. It is my impression that he wants to join the European Union referendum with the elections for this House. We will see in the end what will be, but as our citizens have kind of cooled off from the European Union, so Europe has many problems within it and I am almost certain that Croatia will not enter the European Union before 2013. Today, I read this Mr. Menzinger, Slovenian, somewhere else, that immediately as he tells us, leave the illusions that you will receive billions from the European Union. I absolutely agree with that. In fact, Croatia's earlier major monopoly from Europe through banks, through the profits of HT, will benefit from importing into this area, but we are about to get some money from Europe. However, I agree, Europe should, if for no other reason, because of these economic activities, be sufficiently mentioned that industrial production in Croatia dropped 6.6% in the 4th month, and that in the euro area the euro area has increased by 9.5% to get them out of the recession, we are sinking more and more every day. And finally, to get out of the crisis as well as the prime minister, I think that the most important consensus is citizens, not political elites, and what they're going to say is that consensus is possible, and thus leaving some crisis only in parliamentary elections. Croatia will not get out of the crisis by agreements between the leaders of individual political options, but, as I said by the elections of all citizens of the country. We have also recently had opportunities to read that Mrs Angela Merkel has suddenly turned into Europe's largest skeptic, Germany has not set any conditions for us for two years, but it does not support us, but I would not be surprised that, as in my court, Great Britain, the Netherlands, set conditions across Slovenia for Croatia's entry into the EU, so this came about in some way, under the quotes of "gifting" 150 square miles of territorial sea on the other side. That now Slovenia has another tutor when it comes to the Ljubljanska Banka. I also assure you, gentlemen, that it is not important for Slovenia or their political leadership whether or not the Ljubljanska Banka will enter the Croatian market, it is a front. The point is that through the succession of the country ex-Yugoslavia, the countries of ex-Yugoslavia mean once more to themselves through the succession they pay themselves from the Slovenian authorities to rob our savings roles in the Ljubljanska Banka. That's the point. If Croatia agrees to a concession on the Ljubljanska banka, and apparently there is no talker in Croatia, there are no governors, but there is obviously in the Government, then in Slovenia Belgrade and Sarajevo and Skopje will agree to this. Which will say that the ex-Yugoslavese poor woman will pay money, gold, property that has remained on blocked ex-Yugoslavic accounts to settle the obligation of the Ljubljanska Banka. It will happen to us that twice in 20 years, a single establishment will literally steal us. For the first time, Croatia for a billion and 100 million marks in '91, '92, '93, and now, in ex-Yugoslavia, it was perhaps 3 billion marks then, and now with interest, it is perhaps 3 or more billion euros. It is the operation of the Ljubljanska banka that simply the money of the ex-Yugoslavija left in those accounts through the succession, in fact, this ex-Yugoslavin poverty itself pays its own damage. On the other hand, if someone in Croatia is obliged to the Ljubljana Bank, give it back. No one is clear about better relations with Slovenia than I am, but I would also like to respect, appreciate, respect, that we protect ourselves as they protect theirs. And I am glad that on 06th of July, President Turk and Josipovic will meet in Buzet, etc. Decisions on sending the army abroad, i.e. Afghanistan, I'm just reminding you that the German president recently resigned because of Afghanistan. Let's think about it. The diaspora has been elected to the so-called so-called diaspora. "small minorities" have a double right to vote. Too bad it's not in the Constitution when we adopt it today. It'll be in constitutional law, okay. I don't think it's fair, if that's what this is about, diaspora. BiH, if a fixed quota is for Serbs, and mandates will be adopted by who gets the vote anymore which is not fair. It will certainly be a model for the diaspora elections, so HDZ can count on all 3 places, etc. I would like to say, however, that Croatia has a fair electoral code at this time. As for referendum 10, i.e. 5%, 445 thousand signatures, the first only one in this country was gathered by Mirko Chondić, or defence association. Mr. Shakespeare wrote a referendum question back then. Today's opposition, then the government rejected the referendum. However, I want to believe that this working referendum will take place. What else do I want to say? Speaking of referendums, we need to be careful, so we don't have to play games. I am not against most 5%, absolutely, but the referendum should be tied to the 50% citizen turnout. If it is different, then in the years ahead, we will have a flood of the referendum not only at national level but at local level and so on. And as much as I think about it, it should be careful that every 7 days in this country doesn't actually happen a referendum one. I'm not afraid of citizens' thinking or attitudes, but I also need to count on possible abuses. All in all, this constitutional amendment is followed by the Constitutional Law. I want to believe that he will be adopted relatively soon, and according to the debate itself, we will decide on these constitutional changes, but we have no reason not to support the Constitution at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54668	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54669	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that it is indeed time to adopt as soon as possible a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because if things continue to be delayed, I think the number of new amendments, new proposals for additions and amendments to the Constitution will only grow. And I think we've come to the point at which it's high time to say after this is finally time for constitutional change to be adopted. Because I have the impression that the various initiatives or different interests, the wide variety of groups after the debates that have already been held, include and join new amendments to the Constitution, and thus we will unfortunately deplore the constitutional text and constitutional matter and bring it into a state in which we do not think it should be. As far as the Supreme Court provision is concerned, I think it is good for the Supreme Court to report to the Council on the judiciary and on the work of the courts and on the state of the court. It is good if for no other reason, and then because we all know that the situation in our judiciary is such that it is necessary for this Parliament to contribute to the improvement, that means that it is changing. Therefore, it has been almost 10 years since the provision has been in force, not only the provision on the independence of the judiciary, but as the law is set so that judges and courts are maximum protection in their independence and in the process of elections and in the process of action, but unfortunately the effects on the repair and improvement of the work of courts and courts are not so. And that principle didn't result in improving the work of courts, but by getting around a message you can't touch us, we're about sacred cows in which you, as a legislative body, can't initiate anything even when you see things don't work well. For these very reasons, Mr. Minister, I think it is extremely important that the Supreme Court, or the President of the Supreme Court, submits a report to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament on the state of the judiciary and the judicial authority. Not because we would like to assume powers that do not belong to us, because our powers are clear, we are passing laws and the Supreme Court is here to oversee the work of courts in law enforcement and legality, but ours is, as Mr Milanović here has right to say, as we do to the State's Attorney's Office, so we can do so according to the Supreme Court. Not because we would like to assume the role of the Supreme Court, but because we would like to contribute to speeding up the judicial reform process, to improve the quality of the work of the courts and ultimately to strengthen the legality for which we are responsible as a legislative body. And so the objections that come from the Supreme Court representatives can understand them that someone is not getting involved in their work, but it is a misunderstanding, we do not want to get involved in the work, we want to strengthen and encourage this job, and for this reason we of the SDSS Club plead once more with Mr Minister to strengthen Parliament's ability to discuss the situation in the judiciary, and the best and most important thing is that on the report of the Supreme Court President, because it is the Supreme Court that has constitutional powers to monitor the work of the courts, to monitor their legality and to discuss it here. Not because we want to take judicial or legislative authority not. It's to help cut the path to reform. And the moment we realize there's no need to do it anymore we can say no, it's not necessary to do it here in the Parliament. For this reason we are pleading and asking you and the Prime Minister to consider talking to the President of the Supreme Court, to find a consensus or this because our intention is not to interfere but to help in the work. Another thing I'd like to say about the referendum. The initiatives that have come to me on the need to lower the threshold, i.e. the percentage of signatures collected for the referendum initiative, are understandable for a number of reasons, but at the same time it is necessary to consider whether we are prepared for this. Do we know from all sides and with all intents and goals that can come to this initiative? Whether our society is still sufficiently democratically mature to benefit from the Institute of Direct Democracy of the referendum, it can benefit in full maturity when it comes to fundamental constitutional values, when it comes to the fundamental values of democracy. I'm afraid not yet. For this reason, I am in favour of discussing the reduction in the threshold of 5%, 10%, but only after we study what the consequences are, after we see whether and how to fix the voters' lists, do we and how to fix all that is necessary in order to have a clean situation and then then can it be accessed to allow the threshold to be reduced if it is deemed necessary. The lowering of the threshold at this point was for political reasons that we can have, for other reasons that we can have, could have been misunderstood. For this reason, the SDSS Club proposes not to insist on lowering the threshold but to prepare ourselves to see how it is possible to ensure this change if all circumstances and in terms of the electoral census and in terms of maturity for the use of the Institutes of Referendum under a more liberal regime are acquired then it can go to that. In these circumstances, we do not think it is wise to go down on that threshold, I believe from what Mr Milanovic said, as others have said, that they themselves do not insist on that element. As for the European arrest warrant and what it allows, and these are agreements primarily with neighbouring countries, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro regarding the extradition of our citizens, these countries or some other countries, or these countries, or our authorities, to justice or repression, I think it is of great importance for our European path, of great importance for our security, of great importance for the overall security of the region and of great importance for strengthening legality in the country itself and in neighbouring countries. For this reason, it does not encourage what the Prime Minister said, that the special agreements after the amendment to the Constitution that we will bring today or tomorrow, that special agreements will be concluded and that this will further strengthen the legality in our country, but also the legality in neighbouring countries, while at the same time strengthening the mechanisms of fighting organised crime, and thus combating corruption. And in this regard we welcome not only this amendment to this provision, but also the announced preparation of the agreement. As far as the work we've been talking about here is concerned. One of the colleagues in the area this morning with the Prime Minister mentioned the need to pay more attention to the work in the Constitution and thus to strengthen and strengthen labour legislation. I think you should, too. And I think that over the past 20 years we have gained enough experience to see what is the state of work legislation, what is the state of work experience and the working status of most Croatian citizens. And speaking of the rights of different groups of defenders, minorities, sexual or other orientations, I think it is indeed time to pay attention to one large number, if not most, then to one important segment of the Croatian population, Croatian society, which is a working-dependent population without which there is certainly nothing. There can be neither adequate freedom, there can be no adequate justice, nor can there be adequate good for the whole society. And that is why I would like in some of the next discussions on the amendments to the Constitution, if it has not already happened now, if we have not already had the concentration and need to discuss it, that our constitutional provisions and our special legislation in the field of work be strengthened in order to strengthen the security of work, in order to ensure that the rights of the domain of pension and other status can be strengthened, because our provisions are in respect of the rights arising from the work and the right to work in the Constitution are indeed elemental. For this reason, it seems to me that there is room for us to devote ourselves more, as I would also like not only to address employers in general political communication, not only to those who represent associations of employment powers and not only to unions, but to address the general population living from work and living with work, and unfortunately in our political culture, these constitutional changes show this, are still not mature enough and still not sufficiently developed. Finally, I would like to say something about the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, since Article 15(3) is Article 15(3). The constitution remained the way it was. He remained as he was because the issue of national minority voting rights would be regulated by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, in line with the agreement I believe, and the agreement went in different directions both with coalition parties and with opposition parties. This solution, proposed by minorities up to 1.5%, applies to the possibility that, in addition to general, they have additional voting rights, and minorities above 1.5% to be chosen by means of a general electoral right with the protection of three mandates and the possibility of a mandate being one or already how much more we do not think is the only one, but the best we could think of is that it could be accepted by all parties in the Assembly, while at the same time eliminating the weaknesses of the current electoral model. What is particularly important to us is that the constitutional law will regulate the position of minority councils, that national coordination of minority councils will receive the final status of legal personality, and that they will not be treated under the Law on Associations because these minority councils are not elected as associations but have been chosen under a special electoral procedure under the constitutional law. National co-ordination can also finally have the status of legal persons, as well as the key institutions of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia established under the Erdut Agreement and letters of intent to the Government of Croatia for the completion of peaceful reintegration, I think that the Joint Council of the municipalities and the Serbian National Council will finally, after more than 10 years of debate on status, be able to obtain adequate status in the provisions of constitutional law. I would like to say that I am pleased with the fact that I hope that today or tomorrow we will adopt amendments to the Constitution and that during today's committee discussions, we will agree on what still needs to be brought into line, as I am pleased with the fact that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we will conclude the debate and adopt the amendments to the constitutional law. This will significantly improve constitutional regulation in the Republic of Croatia. I'm not saying that all segments are best regulated, I'm not saying that they couldn't have been in some segments and better, especially when we're talking about work and working legislation, but what we've achieved so far clearly shows our ability and our interest at this point. At the next moment when this changes, I hope that the overall circumstances in society will be different, and then the changes in the Constitution will go and concern other segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54670	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Stanko Grcic on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54671	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, respected state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. We rarely get the opportunity to participate in such an important event that, I say freely, we deserve to call it historic. Today we are discussing a change in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and this does not happen every day. The Constitution is the highest legal act of a state and is based on a legal system. The constitution is also the most important political document of a country. It prescribes basic principles, structure and action of the political system and therefore says it should be changed rarely and little. The changes we are discussing today are certainly by volume, but the content could not be called small changes. Namely, these proposed amendments to the Constitution confirm our firm commitment to life in the communities of European peoples with whom we are undoubtedly belonging and with whom we have shared fate throughout history. The decision to join the European Union was one of the most important decisions, which, given the way it works for the consequence, has a number of changes in the administrative, economic and legal system of the Republic of Croatia and therefore we need to go through a demanding adjustment process in order to prepare for life in emerging circumstances. These changes should ultimately reflect the highest legal act of the Republic of Croatia or the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Over the past few months, the scope and content of the changes have been discussed and different opinions have appeared, but the fact is that it has been sought, and now I believe that compromise is both found necessary and necessary. I'll repeat what many have already said, and it's worth remembering. The compromise can only be achieved if both parties, i.e. participants in the process, deviate from the initial position and are located somewhere in the middle, equally satisfied, but equally dissatisfied with the compromise solution. However, it is good for the development of democracy, teaching us to negotiate and seek solutions that will satisfy the majority, as well as respecting the right of others to have a different view in some issues. It is certain that they will be dissatisfied with these necessary compromises, but by achieving this, it has been shown that they have managed to rise above party interests and day-to-day policies and make decisions that are in the interest of all of us, or all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The interest of Croatian citizens, and we are obliged to take care of it, is primarily the completion of the process of accession to the European Union, which we have all started together, and which is not without the change of the Constitution. Croatian citizens expect us to behave responsibly, which means to finish the job. These constitutional changes we are discussing today do not bring political parties because of themselves, but because of Croatian citizens who have given us their confidence that they are right here in this place and we represent them. This trail also includes the introduction of existing and other national minorities into the original foundations. National minorities chose the Republic of Croatia to share with it those difficult moments, today difficult because of the economic crisis but decided to share with it the beautiful ones by contributing to their work and achieving the improvement of the entire Croatian society. Many members of national minorities have made a major contribution throughout history to the development of Croatian culture, art and science, and to the economy and sports. Each nation enriches the country it lives in with its traditions, customs and culture, and therefore its members deserve support in their efforts to preserve their language, identity and join society equally. In this light, we also look at the introduction of all national minorities whose members live in the Republic of Croatia at the source base. One of the painful points of recent Croatian history, the black spot on the conscience of some, and the disappointment and bitterness of many Croatian citizens are the conversion and privatisation that have become a synonym for crime and guessing without the scene of the robbery of the common created good. What shame would be greater at the time of the war when Croatia was attacked from the outside. War profiting isn't a new concept, and it's only about these areas. But Croatia's people deeply hurt to know that while some of them were defending Croatia from the aggressor with their own life, they took advantage of the opportunity and made themselves rich just by taking advantage of such circumstances by robbing their own country from the inside. Not obsolescence of war crimes and crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation prescribed by this proposal for constitutional change shows a willingness to finally shed light on these dark acts committed on such difficult occasions throughout Croatia and its citizens. The guarantee that the acquired good will not be able to enjoy it carefreely by counting on old age. Amendments to the Constitution to the part which must be changed due to the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union also apply to the new circumstances, primarily to membership in the NATO Alliance which makes certain commitments to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and must have its foothold in this Constitution as well. Amendment to Article 7 is necessary because of the membership of the Republic of Croatia in NATO on the basis of which it has undertaken to protect another Member State if it is attacked. In this case, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia would be obliged to protect the sovereignty and independence of the attacked state. Furthermore, the existing constitutional provision of Article 9 does not allow the extradition of Croatian citizens to other countries and therefore constitutes an obstacle to the execution of the European arrest warrant. Therefore, the introduction of a European arrest warrant will open up new penalties for criminal offences regardless of where the suspect is located, and implies that persons are handed over to another country at the time when a criminal offence is brought against him for some of the prescribed offences listed in the warrant. The new paragraph of Article 38 will guarantee citizens the right to access information owned by public authorities and thus contribute to the transparency of their work and openness towards citizens, which is a prerequisite for fighting corruption and is important for the control of so-called ‘Corruption’. The silence of bureaucracy. Article 45 of the last months seems to have become the most famous article of the Constitution. Almost everyone knows that it refers to electoral law, and the proposed formulation has reached a satisfactory solution. In conclusion, I will say that the changes proposed except for what is necessary for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union contribute to the strengthening of certain institutions important for the functioning of the rule of law in terms of their greater independence. Change also reflects the reality of social change. We in the Croatian peasant party believe that all of these will positively reflect on the lives of Croatian citizens, I believe that we will support these positive changes, because as I said at the beginning today is one of those days that are remembered in history and with a feeling that what was needed and what was right has been done. I therefore believe and we will all recognize the importance of this moment and carry out the duty entrusted to us by Croatian citizens by justifying their trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54672	Thank you. It's the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go. And before that, if you'll allow me two notices. The first is that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, which will be held today on 16 June at 13:30, or if the debate is not finished by then, when the debate is over. And secondly, the Legislative Committee is tomorrow at 8:30. I'm asking you at 8:30. Thank you very much. Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54673	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is the 4th amendment of the Croatian Constitution in 20 years, but it has indeed its own speciality and, as my fellow Greeks said, I believe that it will enter history recorded as a very significant change that proves that the people in our country, and especially their representatives politicians, are capable of achieving consensus when it is most needed. And I could say that this amendment to the Constitution is the crown of one consensus, one consensus of the majority, and I would dare say practically all parliamentary parties that Croatia should become an equal member of the European Union and that therefore we must address all those obstacles that are on the road together. And as it comes from this debate, we will conclude this debate with common conclusions on the well-being of the Republic of Croatia. It will be just a crown on a thorny, years-old road that has divided us from those wartimes to full membership in the European Union, a thorny road because the requirements before us were much greater, stricter, sharper and stronger than before the other former, and now members of the European Union. Yet, there is still a whole series of problems that we must resolve among ourselves. I always say that the Croatian state is a good future member of the European Union and that the European Union will not have problems with the Croatian state, as it has with some other countries that are not prone to financial discipline, strict, harsh and rapid changes. Unfortunately, our daily press, including weeks of very often spreading disinformation in the Croatian public, wants to create pessimism in the Croatian public, wants to reduce the merits of the Croatian state for everything we have achieved, so it resorts to lies. Here's my colleague Cain now reminded me that I should say something about such a lie, which was published today in a humorous daily newspaper called "The Morning List." Hebrang says the title "shock news, hebrang claims to live better in Croatia than in Germany". That news is not dear friends and friends at all shocking because it was published by a humorist newspaper, it would be shocking if it were true. And the truth is what needs to be said in this debate when we cross and cross the last step in front of the European Union. That Croatia has met all the requirements of the European Union in economic terms and not only in political organisation, democratic and legal terms, but also in economic terms, and we prefer to keep quiet about this. Why are we keeping our mouths shut? Because this gives points to the Croatian state and this is not good in the humorous daily and weekly papers. What has Croatia accomplished? It has met the European Union's demand for the budget deficit to be less than 3%. And I said we have a smaller deficit even than Germany and that's true. The European Union is looking for a ratio between the total debt of the state and our gross domestic product, and says it must not be over 60%. This deficit in Croatia, that debt is 50%. So far below the top threshold. And Europe's largest countries have gone beyond it, so now I'm just going to tell you that the budget deficit in Germany is 3.2% and in Croatia 2.9%. In the UK, the budget deficit is 10.4%, in Italy 5.3, in Spain 8%. So Croatia is better at financial discipline than those countries. That the ratio of debt and gross domestic product in Croatia is 50%, that in Germany 79%, in Hungary, is 78%, in Spain 65, in Italy 115, 118%. And that's what I said, that Croatia will be and Europe with it gets a high-quality member who won't have to worry about as some of its members. And I'm reading today what nonsense it is. Well, in Germany, gross domestic product is bigger than in Croatia. Well, of course it's bigger, but it's not a condition for the European Union, and we haven't talked about it. There are a number of employees there, they say today in that humorous diary. Well, of course it's bigger, but we didn't talk about it, because the number of employees is not a condition for the European Union. A pro post on the number of employees, and here we are better than the European average EU27 has an average unemployment rate of 9.7 and Croatia 9.4. I think that the humorist papers should become serious and tell Croatian citizens you do not give up and do not suffer in vain, you have achieved a better average in financial discipline than the one Europe is looking for. And that was a message. But some of them, of course, can't understand it, it was hot yesterday, so their understanding device probably burned out. In addition to this problem, in this Constitution we solve a whole series of other problems. And that is why I think that this Constitution is not only good formally because it is a condition for the European Union, it is good and content, because it improves the quality of overall life in the Republic of Croatia, so I will only mention some specifics that significantly improve the quality of Croatia as a whole. So I will also mention that the introduction of national minorities in preamble is a major step in the fight for human rights, in the rule of law, and a major step in the perception of Croatia as a country that gives its national minorities greater rights than Europe determines and we are proud of it. I must also say that the Armed Forces, which we thank most for creating the Croatian state, and which are among the most responsible that in just 10 years after the war were so reorganised that we could become an equal member of NATO, took the same step in this Constitution. With these provisions of the Armed Forces, we are expanding our activities, not only to defend the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, but to all NATO members, but in return we also get defenses if someone attacks us. This was to be entered into the Constitution, and it is good that it has entered, and it is also expanding the activities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and to the preservation of civil goods, not to say different humanitarian actions, the preservation of our sea, etc. A major legal step is to accept a European arrest warrant, under which decisions of other judicial systems will have to be respected, which will require the extradition of those convicted by power or doubt in the investigation of different processes, thus eradicating the Balkan shadow over those who could avoid judicial decisions among the countries in the region. It is particularly important to step into the Constitution of non-aging investigation into war crime, war profit, and crime of conversion and privatisation. This is important for us, not for Europe. Namely, this crime during this critical period of state creation is often politically misused, let's remember that President Mesic won the election on what he said would bring back 4 billion, I don't know what, I guess, dollars, that were stolen abroad in Croatia. Of course he hasn't returned a cent, because it's politics. After this, the competent authorities have a constitutional obligation, the constitutional authority to proceed with investigations from that period. Money always leaves its mark and a trail of money can always get to criminals. I cannot say no to Article 45, which regulates the electoral rights of Croats who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia. There were major obstacles here, and here we showed maturity, not only because we managed to reach agreement, but because we first guaranteed Croats who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia to have three representatives, which without this decision could be more, but could be less. I think it's a good step. I would also mention amendments made by the Government not over the board or around the board, but by the regular constitution established and by the law laid down in the procedure referred to in this House of Commons. Of these amendments, he would have to refer to some who have caused different debates here, which is to enter the Constitution for the Croatian state to take special care of defenders, widows, children defenders and Croatian military disabled. Well, of course it's a place in the Croatian Constitution. For what? Because the different politicians of Croatian defenders have demoted, gossiped, spread lies about them. Croatian defenders, the only defender of any sovereign state with a negative omen. The Croatian defender experiences severe degradation from day to day, insults. The last nail in the coffin of burying a positive memory of the dead Croatian defenders is a shameful decision to put out the eternal flame on the altar of the homeland. It is an artistically valuable monument of Kuzma Kovačić's author, but it is even more valuable because it was the only central place to mark the tragedy of Croatian defenders. Mr Mesic abolished it because he banned the wedding of the foreign delegations to that monument and in this way we remained the only country in which foreign delegations have no place to lay a crown and therefore we are ashamed, ashamed and this remains the historic disgrace of our generation. That is why it is good for defenders and special care for them to enter the Constitution because it will give little incentive to all future politicians who want to manipulate them that the constitutional obligation on Croatian defenders is to tell them the truth. The same goes for the Homeland War, which is just, defensive, liberating. And this amendment is nothing else, as the Prime Minister said, but an inclusion in the Constitution of the Declaration of the Homeland War of the Croatian Parliament. It is our obligation to place it in the Constitution as is our obligation to protect Article 141. I must say that there was one proposal here to abolish paragraph 2 of that article, which reads as follows: "It is forbidden to initiate the process of joining the Republic of Croatia in alliances with other states in which the association could lead to or could lead to the renewal of the Yugoslav state union, i.e. some Balkan state binding in any form." There was a suggestion here to delete that particular. We didn't react because we thought it was a single whim, an unserious proposal. However, the proposal was later recycled in some newspapers, in some media outlets and it was said, see, HDZ did not oppose that. We did not oppose it because we felt that this should not be answered at all, that this is generally good, that it is a general truth and a general finding that in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia must remain and remain forever a ban on association in South Slavic freshness. And this time I point out, sharply, that HDZ is pushing to keep it for one simple reason. All the Yugoslav bindings, all the Yugoslav states, whatever form they were in were the tombs of the Croatian people and ended in bloody wars. None of these Yugoslav alliances have spread peacefully as the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the countries of the Soviet Union, have recently divided peacefully, etc. Our experience is that after every Yugoslav freshness, we, our children, are killed. If this stays in the Constitution then at least we can promise our children here you'll be the first generation in these areas that won't pay with blood to get out of the Yugoslav Federations. And that is why Article 2 of Article 141 must remain, and that is why I am now counting on it because I see that some communists, pardoned columnists, have begun to praise such a proposal. Well, let this be the response of the HDZ Club to those columnists. And finally what to say about this Constitution? This constitution will indeed enter into history because the Constitution is a consensus, because the Constitution is an agreement, not an overvote. Some of the misunderstandings that were left we agreed to further debate, not to force them. We have time in peace to discuss. It is much easier to discuss when we will be an equal member of the EU, there will be less tension and less problems, and therefore the HDZ Club recommends that we raise our hand to the Constitution because it is the Constitution for civilised, European Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54674	Thank you very much. It is next to the HNS club - HSU, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go. Excuse me, one rectification of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54675	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Dear Mr Hebrang pointed out in his presentation that it is particularly good that Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia also have a new right under this proposal to 3 parliamentary representatives. So I can't agree with that, that's not true. It's a very bad solution, it's discriminatory. Finally, it leads to the fact that we have more categories of citizens, and the next following the introduction of precisely this rate will be the requirement over several years that it will also be reduced since it will not be as valuable in Croatia as it is outside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54676	Dear Representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54677	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So we found ourselves in an unusual and unexpected situation. For months, we discussed drafts, pre-plans, government initiatives, opposition representatives' initiatives, the Committee's initiatives on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. So, on various proposals, initiatives and variations of amendments and additions to the Constitution, and probably in the first row, because of the fact that the Constitution needs two-thirds of the hands in this Parliament, we have managed to find some compromise that is certainly not considered ideal by either side, but all sides considered acceptable and tolerable. In itself, it was a kind of, in our opinion, positive political experience because, of course, in each Parliament, we must build a capacity for compromise and consensus on some issues, and we do not have much experience in this. And we're glad we made it on this subject. And not to repeat what we have already discussed several times in this assembly, which is that these changes to the Constitution are a direct cause, of course, the end of our EU membership negotiations. ... My colleague Dragovan is too loud, too loud. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, on the possibility of Croatia's EU membership and the end of negotiations, Croatia's ability to function when it becomes a full member, but also the third Corps, which are things that are not directly related to Croatia's membership in the EU, but for various reasons, individual participants in the whole process have estimated that this is necessary at this moment in the Constitution and that this would improve the Constitution itself. There were different suggestions, but we found a compromise. 15 hours before we started discussing the Constitution in the Croatian Parliament today, after this whole reconciliation procedure, five government amendments appeared. They were on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, whether someone agreed with them as we have conducted the whole procedure, whether they are an integral part of this compromise and the consensus on which we have brought this draft amendment to the Constitution, or whether they are something that has suddenly been created by disabling, underlining the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system here in the Assembly is completely unclear. What has been happening all these months is that these five amendments that are not cosmetics, which are extremely important and significant appeared 15 hours just before we started discussing this topic in the Assembly. This, of course, was removed from the agenda of the debate on changes to the Constitution. It has been removed in those dimensions that have been thoroughly launched, so we will not discuss it obviously to agree or adapt the Constitution for membership in the European Union, for forms of control, which is very significant, and in the last debate on behalf of the HNS Club, I mentioned here that we have at least discussed the most dramatic things we are doing to this Constitution, which is that we are transferring part of the sovereignty from the Croatian Parliament to the European institutions. We have hardly discussed this at all, however, with the government's procedure that five amendments appear now 15 hours before the debate, discussions on all issues on the Constitution have been put on the sidelines and, of course, five of these amendments are being discussed. Since we have expressed our opinion on other things and on the basis of the long-term and in my opinion the quality of the process of agreeing and building one community, and this is particularly important for the Constitution, unlike all other laws, it is particularly important for the Constitution that if it is possible to bring consensus, 2/3 are already in itself almost consensus but if possible by consensus because the function of the Constitution is unification and not division. And the unification of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in some kind of common expression of our own political profile, the political profile of our own country, is the Constitution. Therefore, it is really important and our opinion in the HNS Club of HSU is that we have really achieved a positive shift after a long time, so that then tonight the amendments appear. So since we're talking about other things, in the discussions that were already being held here, let me say something on behalf of the HNS Club and HSU about the amendments that are proposed here. First, the proposal is to throw out citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this preamble or in the opening part, in the original grounds like those who have defended the Republic of Croatia and instead put only one segment in place, and these are Croatian defenders. There is no doubt that Croatian defenders contributed significantly to the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the establishment of the Republic of Croatia. As there is no doubt that Croatian pensioners who financed it with their pensions that are still coming back today also made a very important contribution to the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the establishment of an independent state. As there is no doubt that the civilian victims and people standing on their doorsteps and in their villages and cities contributed significantly to the defence of the Republic of Croatia. As there is no doubt that many people who represented the Republic of Croatia on politically different stages, both domestic and world, in those years, and the recognition of the Republic of Croatia as members of various charities, voluntary, civil associations also contributed significantly. But what is the most significant constitution is a document that must unite citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is a common document of all and the whole idea of the Constitution is to recognize the role of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in defending and establishing their own countries and their own homeland. And the idea that we would throw out citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and recognize only some in this process is out of the question of people, it is not a constitutional category at all. The laws of certain categories of citizens can give certain rights, give them certain compensations, positive discrimination absolutely, introduce a variety of institutions, which recognise specific contributions from individual segments of Croatian citizens and citizens. But the Constitution introduces discrimination as a constitutional category between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in view of the foundation of the state, given the defence of its own country, it cannot. That people can't, if we want to, if we want the Constitution to share instead of uniting the citizens and citizens of this country on such an important topic, then either you have to come up with a different way of adopting the Constitution, but what I can certainly tell you, regardless of the views of any party of the HNS will not support such a Constitution. This is a lot of times and a very short history has shown that when different political arrangements were made, suspicious compromises, immediate solutions in this House that very quickly proved how wrong it was and how right we were with one right, flat attitude. This is not just any law, this is the Constitution and that some Constitution would give up the right and role in establishing a state and defending its own country, so let's introduce it, because surely some regions in Croatia were far more hurt in the war than some others, so let's introduce regional privilege, age. It doesn't end. Once on one such general, if you want an identity dot, you start discriminating your own citizens and citizens, there's no end to it. Therefore, on this point, if you want to throw out Croatian citizens and citizens from the preamble of the Constitution as those who have defended their country and established their country without us. We won't vote for that. You have a sufficient number of hands if you want, but then you have a responsibility. That's not the kind of thing we're going to be involved in. The 1st amendment also introduced Amendment 2 concerning the special concern of the country dedicated to the protection of Croatian defenders, wartime wartime disableds, widows, parents and children of the dead Croatian defenders. Well, I guess all the disabled, so I guess children and young people in general. Of course he does, but colleagues and colleagues are legal, not constitutional material. It's a topic that regulates laws, not constitutions. Because if it's regulated by the Constitution then let's just say if someone falls or doesn't pass the college entrance exam they can come and say the fact is that me and my dad died in the Homeland War, the fact is that you didn't enroll me in college. That's the fact that you're violating the Constitution and it's my right to take special care of me. You know that we've already had such a problem, so since the Constitution was different and resolved. This is what absolutely people are right about. So that's the 2nd amendment. And the third amendment on which, as a club, we have serious objections is Amendment 4 in this text which we have received about the fact that the President of the Supreme Court should not report on the work of the judicial authority or the judiciary of this Parliament. So who would you report to? Fellow Members and colleagues, the President of the Supreme Court is not any of the leading figures of a judicial institution in Croatia. He's either that symbol of the judiciary. I'm sure my colleagues and colleagues have already discussed Article 4 of the current Constitution here, where the principle of government division is set out in paragraph 2....
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54678	Bring the end, your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54679	I will. Cooperation and verification of the holder, these three authorities. It is known what the problem is, the problem is the influence of the executive authority on the judiciary, but also the intolerance of the report by the judiciary on its work to representatives of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and to remind you, that is what we are here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54680	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54681	It's necessary to be in the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54682	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54683	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Pusic where she claimed that this amendment 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia The people of the Republic of Croatia are putting outside these original foundations of the Constitution. Namely, this is not true because it clearly states that the article is being added, that it is added in indent 13 and that the Croatian people have shown their determination and willingness to establish and preserve the Republic of Croatia as an independent, independent, sovereign, democratic state. Namely, Croatian defenders should not be an obstacle to your observations on these amendments, since clearly through the declarations of the Croatian Parliament, through everything that has been adopted, and through the current current constitution clearly states what Croatian defenders are. This only complements their role in creating and defending the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54684	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54685	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Listen, although I didn't mean to start with this debate, colleague Pusic before me and remembering one debate or replica of Mr Hebrang some month ago when he claimed that there were not only 500 thousand but 800 thousand and more defenders, it turns out that Mrs Vesna Pusic and Mr Hebrang were almost on the same line on this issue, but on different sides. In 1868, when the Croatian-Hungarian settlement was concluded, the Croatian delegation was in Pest and visited by the emperor and the king, König und Kaiser Franjo Josip. And you know what he told the Croatian delegation? Don't be more Hungarian than the Hungarians themselves. Here are our amendments to the Constitution, basically, which is their main goal, to sort of harmonize our Constitution and all these articles and other texts for the entry into the European Union. Perhaps it could be conveyed, that message of Francis Joseph let us not be more European than the Europeans themselves, and I will explain that in my statement why I say it. When accessing the European Union is written in our Constitution and this has not changed that the Parliament's decision must be 2/3, then the referendum will go. We are representatives of the citizens of Croatia, of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and it is necessary for these representatives of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to vote for entry into the European Union, so in this House of Higher Education 2/3 of the majority. In this new proposal, we take away the same right for citizens who are asked to come out as far as it comes out and half to join the European Union. This means hypothetically, theoretically, that five citizens of the Republic of Croatia can take part in a referendum to join the European Union if three vote in favour, Croatia is in the European Union. And in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia there must be 2/3 of the majority. Now, as there is a difference between voting to join the European Union in Parliament and giving confidence to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the people of Croatia when they decide to join the European Union. That is why the amendment of the Constitution in Article 141 is related, therefore, to association with the association, and therefore such association is also the European Union. Once again I insist and plead, if we have no criteria, so without the criteria when joining the vote in the referendum, then at least set one criterion for a positive vote to enter the European Union, because it is expected that people from the executive government will flourish Croatia and here as someone said both Mr Hebrang and others to take Croatia with full sails towards a safe coast, that the people will live better, that there will be better wages, farmers, peasants, workers, all will flourish. They'll all be like Canaan, like in the land of honey and milk. So what, then, is the constitutional change when it comes to a referendum on EU accession. I am saying this because the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja proposed a different formulation. Not only, therefore, over half a positive result but also a higher rate, a higher percentage of the positive result in the vote in the referendum. We've proposed 2/3 positive results. So, 66% but that's not a word of the Constitution's amendment. There were words in the last debate in this rapid constitution as I would call it, because here in 7 days or 10 days the Speed Contracting or Contracting Constitution or amendments to the Constitution are being conducted between certain political elites or groups here in the Parliament. I think that I should say directly to HDZ and SDP and to certain minorities, given that the urgent procedure adopts the agenda under which the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities will go immediately after this. So it's obviously part of a contract or a deal. So at the beginning of the speech, I pointed out that fact about the Croatian-Hungarian settlement and the words of Emperor and King Francis Joseph when he visited the Croatian delegation in Pest. Are we ever going to show our dignity in any way? Will we ever show in any way that we are Croatia and that we are Croats? Someone here was talking about 150 km of square seas or square seas. We are witnessing again as much blackmail as it was hidden in Mr. Pahor's speech last night on Croatian TV regarding the Ljubljanska Banka. Many of our scientists who deal with history and thinking and Croatian history, who are then viewed by the Croatian future, are afraid that through Bruxella we will get our hands on us again or be reunited with Belgrade and under the cover of our constitutional changes. I don't mean to say there's a spell scenario or conspiracy, but we need to think about everything. When Mr. Srb spoke of three types of citizens, some of whom were discriminated against by electoral law or by the time left to vote in the polls, which are those in the diaspora in particular or mainly in Herzegovina and Bosnia because we have only 4 or 5 consular diplomatic representations. That's the kind. It is another species with three seats secured in the Croatian Parliament no matter how many came out and then other ordinary Croatian citizens. What will be the solution in the Constitutional Law and all that together? We don't know that, we don't have a draft. But the obvious haste which, immediately after the likely adoption of these changes, the Constitution is in a hurry with the Constitutional Law is very suspicious at the very least, that, as Mr. Srb said, it should be verified by the end of discrimination between Croatian citizens and divided into some three categories that should not be under the Constitution. I also see no reason for the Supreme Court or its president to report this High House, the Croatian Parliament on the situation in the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia once a year. Neither would the Croatian Parliament vote on this, nor would it have any intention or opportunity to influence it. But let's just hear the report from the President of the Supreme Court. I am convinced that each of us MPs would like to hear it regardless of party membership. Therefore, it is not clear to me that this part is therefore being thrown out of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, in the proposals, or amendments submitted by the Government, and in fact that amendment here is one, it is not even an amendment to the proposal on the draft, but it is an amendment to that old constitution, which, by the rules, was not actually possible, but the juggler in the Assembly here is the amendment we have here today. What bothers me in this amendment is one, and to which Mr. Minister would ask you Mr. Seks, which is why in this amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so whose member you are and whose, obviously, you have submitted the amendment to the Government, writes about Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, and the Homeland War as a Liberation War, and there are no defences. Did you really think that there was no aggression against the Republic of Croatia? I'm not saying it personally to you, but if someone's doing the defense, if it's defending itself from something, it means he's been attacked, it means there's an aggressor. By abandoning this, and if there is a word of defence in the explanation, there is no word in the preamble for the defence of the Homeland War. There's no such thing as a defense. Is that on the line of what's said to be with a neighbouring country that, I don't say, we're going to be at war, canceling each other's accusations that no one was an aggressor, and neither are they on us. Because if we write defensively, then it means that we've defended ourselves from someone, that someone's been committing aggression on Croatia. By abandoning the word defence war, in fact quietly in one way I will not say a perfidious way, that act of aggression we are erasing. From his own constitution. I was going to put in an amendment in which I would only add the word defence, adjective defense, but I gave up because here I am now at the pay phone to say it, if it can be fixed and if others who propose to change the Constitution think so, and if they don't mean anything. Since the HDSSB had much more concrete proposals for the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and even solutions that are not as these amendments have articles that are actually legal provisions, they were not required to be introduced into the Constitution and yet entered into the Constitution, and the HDSSB proposed and in connection with the mandatory regionalisation imposed on us by Europe, then the adjustment of both the parliament and the number of MPs, so the reduction and the two-dom parliament, and given all this I have now said, this Speed Constitution, the Contracting Constitution of the HDSSB will not accept and will not vote for the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54686	Thank you. It's on behalf of the National Minority Club, Honorary Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very clear. The National Minority Club has been played. And this is the opportunity played by both HDZ and SDP, which today joins the vote, the vote on amendments to the Constitution, without having to hold a debate on the constitutional law as agreed and without voting on constitutional law. I just have to say that thing, if HDZ and SDP, if they've made up their mind about it, then the situation is very clear, then actually it's one acting new system... national minorities, and then we leave ourselves the possibility of reacting to such a thing. [[You don't understand.]] I've kept the deal until today, Mr. Shakespeare, you didn't stick to the deal, and I have the impression he didn't stick to the deal or the SDP. Vote the Constitution, and we'll wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54688	Thank you. We will still calm down until the end of the debate, such heavy tones and such charges should not be raised. But there's still six individuals, so by then the whole thing calmed down and calmed down. Let's move on, we're moving on to an individual debate. It's our guest, Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54689	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I would like to say immediately that the Croatian Party opposes these amendments to the Constitution for a number of essential reasons. The first and most important thing is leaving the concept of a state-run and democratic constitution such as this Christmas Constitution, primarily because such constitutional changes introduce several categories of Croatian citizens. In fact, we find it totally unacceptable that today, in any modern democratic constitution, there is any difference based on ethnicity or any other difference between citizens, and those who are potential for these constitutional changes are differences based on residence, and three categories of Croatian citizens are introduced, those who live in the Republic of Croatia have one vote, members of national minorities who have the right to two votes, I would especially point out those who have dual citizenship, for example Croatian and Serbian living in Serbia, and will have special advantages, unlike the same ones who are Croatian nationalities and who will be entitled to one sixty or one hundred votes. And finally the last group of Croatian citizens are those residing outside the Republic of Croatia, so the Croatian diaspora, which has been brought to one by constitutional changes, I would say, an unacceptable and offensive position through the Constitution itself. When amendments have just arrived that speak of the merits of Croatian defenders in the Homeland War and victory, we support it, but we believe that there is something more to be said, which is that, in practice, the Constitution must be introduced into the original basics of the entire Declaration of the Homeland War because it has exceptional consequences for Croatian foreign policy because it clearly defines that Croatia was not an aggressor. Which would oblige top state officials not to come out of the Homeland War Declaration in their actions. So, our proposal, it is our opinion that the entire Declaration of Homeland War as one comprehensive document should be in the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution as a whole stated. There have been a lot of speeches here and this as a contractual-negotiation constitution, and it is in a certain sense because the consequence of the agreement between the two largest political options that have enough hands in the Assembly can vote for constitutional changes whatever they want, but in the long run, in our opinion, these constitutional changes harm Croatia. What is a particularly sensitive issue is the right to vote on the Croatian diaspora and the right to vote on national minorities. And the purpose is to protect the rights of national minorities in the preservation of language, tradition, culture, particularities and all other specificities that are related to one civilizational level today, which is in no way controversial to us, but is constantly seeking to serve national minorities and their representatives in the Assembly in order to form the majority. Either way, on the other hand. And that's what's wrong. I think that this is particularly bad for representatives of national minorities, as such instrumentalisation in the long run can only harm them. And last week, in discussions on the draft constitution here, we have had the opportunity to hear a particularly strong political message through an express request to abolish, by eradicating Article 2, Article 141 of the Constitution prohibiting any association in association that could lead to some Yugoslav political alliance or Balkan state formations. It is something that is actually an expression of an obvious political programme that exists in these areas and that is one statement that will have long-term political implications, I would say maybe for the next 10 or 15 years in these areas, because it actually speaks of a desire, there is a plan to re-institute the Yugoslav political integration in the long term, and that only the opportunity of new political circumstances can be seen in which they can be realized. That is why it is unusually important for that item to remain permanent. And if there's a certain provision in this constitution that protects the lives of people in these areas to the greatest extent, then that's exactly the point 2. Article 141 Because it's exactly the Yugoslav integration processes that are seeking to impose state-owned formations and lead to bloodshed in these areas. And all the evil that has happened in that sense is actually the consequence of the last century of these very integration processes. What we have today, we have almost 15 years of life in conditions in which there is no human suffering, murder, war on any political basis or any ethnic basis. It's a time that hasn't been in the last 100 years, but it's precisely thanks to the fact that there's such a restriction in the Constitution. It is therefore extremely significant, and when it comes to the need at all, the idea of abolishing this provision is actually about the desire to create new conditions in which such integration processes will occur. It is also a dangerous policy that causes largely the mistrust of a nearly whole part of the Croatian people towards members of a national minority and the creation of convictions and the impression that this is practically about, I would say, the head of the Croats living in these areas. I would also like to say something about the requirements for abolishing, that is to say, the abolition of the referendum provisions, so St. 141, where a half majority of all citizens are actually required to attend the referendum when it comes to Croatia's entry into the state unions with other countries and peoples. This provision should remain regardless of this proposal because it is also a statement of the will of all Croatian citizens to recognise the real interests of Croatia. There is no reason to fear that Croatian citizens would not be able to recognise what Croatia needs and to vote on it according to their own judgment accordingly. We see and notice that there is a concern that 50% of eligible voters will not come out on such a referendum. But that is why it is not possible to reduce the level of decision-making based on the majority in the referendum to the extent that practically insignificant number, the share of Croatian citizens decides on such important issues for the future of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we insist on the remainder of this particular state-of-the-art element embedded in the Croatian Constitution. So to conclude, I believe that these constitutional changes from one state-of-the-art and democratic point of view are a step back and that this is not how they should be brought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54690	Thank you. Before further notice, the 36th session of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities will be held today on 16 June at the 13.30 hall of Ivan Mažuranić. Thank you very much. We're moving forward with an individual debate, and it's up to the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So far, I have had the opportunity to listen to representatives of opposition clubs surprised by the latest proposals and amendments made by the government that have come to the proposal for constitutional changes. I want to say immediately that I am not surprised by this surprise because the entire course of negotiations that lasted almost 10 months on constitutional changes for us who did not participate in them was a surprise. So your surprise really doesn't surprise me. By reading all the changes of the Constitution, they can conclude that in the Croatian Constitution from now on there will be all, all minorities, of the national, religious, sexual, plant, animal, etc., all the interest groups of which the Republic of Croatia has special care. Apart from the workers and their salaries, because they are not in the Constitution, nor does it say that the Republic of Croatia is in charge of special care for workers. But it's an old topic that no one wants to accept or install in the Constitution. I would spend the rest of my time having my debate on the current civil action referendum. My last amendment, by which 2% of voters' signatures would be enough to call a referendum, some have said or characterized that a group of provocators could request a referendum in Croatia. So 90,000 people in Croatia could be provokers. They say that even the organisers of the current campaign to collect signatures for a referendum lie, reduce citizens. They say citizens don't know what they're signing because they're illiterate. There are those who argue that by accepting a 10% reduction in the required number of signatures in Croatia, they would have a referendum, which would not be good for Croatia. As it is not good for Slovenian citizens that every few have a referendum, either Switzerland or Denmark, or other countries that have learned or accepted that other than the political elites of some importance for the state and nation important topics in the referendum, citizens also decide when they are given the chance to do so. It's also a message that one signature won't change anything. So, one man, one of his votes won't change anything in this case, of course, except when the elections are, when these same politicians invite every citizen to go to the polls and vote for them. Then that voice apparently can change a lot. Unlike those who fear the provocator, unlike those who think the organisers are lying or don't know what they're signing these days, I'm sure people know what they're signing, and those who haven't signed the motion to sign the referendum as soon as possible and thus prove that it's possible to achieve the current brutally high 10%. And in this way we challenge for the first time the independence of the country, the civil referendum and citizens decide or replace the political decision of the political elite, in this case the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision. When this institute is a referendum or existing provisions of the Constitution, I have five questions for the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the minister and the head of the opposition. The first question is: CAN the body authorised to decide on the subject on which the signatures are collected during the duration of the collection actions defined by the Law in 15 days? So I repeat the question, may the Parliament, for example, decide on the subject for which citizens are seeking a referendum by the end of the 15-day deadline. Second question, especially the Minister of Justice. Will the Law on Referendum be amended after the constitutional changes in the emergency procedure? Third question. Why did the Government not accept and respect my warning during the past amendments to the Law on Referendum that the Law on Referendum is mandatory in the action to collect the signature required by the JMBG and not accepted by the OIB? At the time and moment when the OIB has already been formally introduced at the moment and time when all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have already been assigned to the OIB. So we have one absurd situation in all the laws, that in all procedures administrative citizens have to give the OIB unless the request for a country referendum is still sought by JMBG. And see the cases signed for the collection of signatures can only be on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, because the definition that local self-government representatives determine the places of collection excludes diplomatic consular representations from legal places of collection of signatures. Question four. If we are afraid of citizens, 2%, 3%, or 5%, even which could cause a referendum why we are not changing that part of Article 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the right to call a referendum shall be given to the President of the Republic without the consent or consent of the Prime Minister. The President of the Republic was directly elected by the citizens and the Constitution prohibited him from calling a referendum without the co-signation of the Prime Minister. I don't suppose we're going to declare the President of the Republic as a possible provoking that every little bit of a referendum is creating costs on taxpayers' burden. And question five. If we still see citizens with 2% or 5% as possible provocators that would cause every little referendum and destabilise political power, executive or parliamentary, or God forbid we create the costs of direct democracy. Answer me, please, how many citizens must go to the referendum for it to be valid and the decision of the referendum of the rightdoers. Whether after the current constitutional changes, the group of thousands of citizens who can go to the referendum and make it valid are not potentially more dangerous than 225 thousand citizens who would sign a request for a referendum. And for this reason, I have tabled an amendment proposing a provision in the Constitution that the issue of the collection of voter citizens' signatures should be discussed and a referendum can not be called upon by the competent authority until the legal deadline for the collection of signatures has expired, i.e. if a sufficient number of signatures is collected, so long as the referendum is not held. counterpart Milanovic spoke about the fuses they had offered in their amendment. I believe that this fuse I offer through the amendment is actually the most important and important because even in the course of the duration of the action, even when the citizens collect 450 thousand signatures, there is no obstacle for anyone in Croatia, including the Croatian Parliament, to decide not to wait for the end of the action or to call a referendum and citizens' decision. If we're going to talk about the fuses, then I expect this fuse I'm offering to support at least the opposition part of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54692	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54693	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lesar, I expected you as president of the Croatian Labour Party or Labourist to talk about other things. Labour, the lab is usually Latin work, we don't just have to use English, for those who don't know Latin. Talk about some other things in the amendments to this Constitution since you cover one large part of the area as president of one political party, but in this way in any case you cannot document both the position and the opposition. I felt that you should have sought the protection of workers in the way it was put here in the amendment that special care of the state dedicated to the protection of defenders, wartime disabled persons, widows, parents and children of the dead Croatian defenders, but this was only put in place because in nature their rights are being denied by new legal provisions and the abolition of acquired rights. I also thought that you would talk about the issue of reporting to the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia who should report this House as the largest legislative body. I agree that this should not be voted on, but if, as representatives and as a Parliament, we are voting on who will be sitting in the Constitutional Court then I believe that this Croatian Parliament should have the right to report, so there should be no breach of the government's trinity. And I responsibly claim that there are judges in the Croatian judiciary, people in the judiciary who are not corrupt, but that most of the Croatian judiciary...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54694	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54695	I'll finish now. Justice is corrupt. That's the best thing that says this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54696	Thank you! Your time is up. You can't talk any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54697	I thank you, too. There'll be another replica...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54698	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54699	My colleague Vinkovic, and I expect you to be more often in the assembly and listen to all my debates, and then perhaps you would have heard and seen my debate from last time I was talking about exactly the topics of interest in the employment. You're not always in the Parliament, so you're missing a lot of stuff, and then you're trying to get your hands on those who at least do their job right. But thank you for giving me the advertisement for the Croatian Labour Labour Party again, you cannot remember the full name. It is probably the result of a slight tremor and fear of possible political competition in the Croatian political market, but to remember it easier, memory memory is a very important thing, the Work Party is called and do not worry...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54700	No commercials.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54701	Don't worry about our attitudes when it comes to labor. I talk more about these rights than you and your whole club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54702	Thank you. That's exactly this replica, and the answer is an example of how you talk about something you should talk about. The replica usually goes to what he said, not what he didn't say. But we're moving on with an individual debate. It is up to the distinguished representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54703	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues. So today, if we adopt, as envisaged, the latest version of the Croatian Constitution for me will at least be solved when it comes to national minorities one part of the big problems. I belong to a Bosniak minority who probably among these 22 national minorities and today faces the biggest problems, the problems of a historical fact that we have been suspended as a people for almost a century. And if it is the Ministry of the Administration of the Republic of Croatia, then when we look at the list of voters that the ministry is with, then obviously, the next big battle is how to force people from the Ministry of Administration to realize that what we did on 28.9th in Sarajevo, when we returned our historical name to use after a century, therefore Bosniaks, Bosniaks, we will also have to resolve this issue with the Ministry of Administration. Solve because the way the current minister of the administration answered my parliamentary question how to resolve that question is an answer without an answer. About if I wanted to metaphorically express myself, it's like the secretary of the administration takes one big pillow, rips it apart from some tower of feathers and tells Mr. Tankovic to pick it up and give it back to me as a whole. And the minister knows that the question that we are already persistently asking and that we are trying to solve is impossible in the way the Ministry of Administration wants to address it. Simply for too long, the Bosniak people at the premises of the former state community were literally scrawny, harassed. We have been forced to commit ourselves to what we are not, and today, when the Bosniak name is present in all the state documents of neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina because Bosniaks are the most numerous people, one of the three constituent nations then I am practically asking what some people in the state administration still want us to do, so that they too will be satisfied that the issue of Bosniak name in general in the Republic of Croatia. I remember that a respected academic, you will probably recognize when in the census you should have answered the question of the nationality of Bosniak, advised that the censusors work with a saying, to warn members of the Bosniak people about what they read, what they write to work on their own responsibility. That was a threat. It was literally a threat. If you want to be Bosniak then do it on your own responsibility. Then this is what we were told about the language. You can write Bosniak language, but in no way can we allow you to use the term Bosnian. If you look at the history of written words in these spaces then you will see that the language is always called this name Bosnian. And as for seven years I've been persistent in trying to correct one mistake that was made in '97. the year when it comes from the "Christmas Constitution" and to the cohabitation of some minority representatives that Bosniaks and Slovenians have been expelled, after 7 years we return them, and thanks to this my initiative will also be found in the original foundations of Roma, members of the Roma people and other minorities, which will certainly mean the following. As of today, the mortgage is being broken down into old and new minorities. As one of the minority MPs, I have a major problem with co-operation when it comes to minority representatives who have already learned by intensity that as a member of the Bosniak minority, I always get brought into an unfavourable situation and it may be easier for me to co-operate with members of the HDZ, SDP and other political parties than with members of minority communities who probably wish to ensure themselves some special rights seek to ensure that members of the other by the numbers of minorities, which are Bosniaks, are eventually stopped in their cultural and other development. So once again I say the adoption of today's Constitution for me is indeed a great moral victory. However, I would still like to conclude, and I will end this discussion, because we, in a way, discreetly vice president of the Croatian Parliament, warns that we will have a meeting of the Committee on the Constitution in half two. I believe that with this act not all the requirements of the Bosniak and Slovenian minorities are absorbed. I think the election of minority deputies should be changed. The Bosniaks are second to the number of minorities. Slovenians are also one of the most significant minorities. I believe that in the first subsequent discussions, it is necessary to understand and suggest that Bosniaks and Slovenians receive their special constituency. Because this way of selecting minority deputies is unfair above all against the Bosniak and Slovenian minorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54704	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54705	Here's to respecting what the honourable representative said, I'm going to shorten this replica and given the committee's session. But I just want to say one thing is that the SDP is not afraid of competition, neither of which I personally nor of those who came to the Parliament on the list of other political parties, established a third political party in the House, and it doesn't matter whether they put roots on those chairs, but it matters what they do and what they contribute to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54706	Thank you very much. But it's not a replica of the debate. The other you don't talk. Please! Don't do that. I'm gonna have to withdraw some sanctions. Let's move on with the individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54707	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, members of the government. We have been conducting discussions on the Constitution for several months intensively on several occasions and in a large assembly at plenary sessions. The characteristics of all these discussions, if individual cases are excluded which are several folklore types were and should remain soundness and wisdom, the responsibility of the MPs to the fact that the Constitution is and would have to remain the highest legal text, act, legal framework and our country. But he's not and must never be just and exclusively legal. It is a framework in which we talk about our political destiny, in which we talk about our political identity. He also speaks of what kind of state we want to create so that our citizens in it can feel their own on their own, and that this country can feel its own in the fullness of all its patriotic feelings. In these discussions, we heard sometimes that we are coming out of the framework, going into the prejudice of the Constitution, that the Constitution is not and there must be no text in which the provisions that are yet to follow the needs of meeting certain stakeholders in order to actually create a text that will need more and more and more and more and more often and more often change, but that should be kept on the principles. We did not follow these amendments to the end, for in this text there will be a provision that may not belong in the Constitution, but above all in the law. But the fact is that it is only a reflection of a terrible mistrust between the position and the opposition. We can close our eyes in front of the fact, but she's inexorable. Most and minorities in this Croatian Parliament, as it has not happened so far, have been growing towards each other an extremely high level of mistrust. Some say who the snakes bit and the lizard is afraid of. And when we thought that we would easily break out arguments to those who would further heat such mistrust, when we were given the impression that a quality, qualified, responsible debate could be overcome and those challenges of defining all the topics that should be changed in the Constitution, i.e. installing it into a new constitutional text, when we gained the impression that it could be done by normal procedure, first of all by defining the level that is acceptable to the great majority, because we know how the Constitution is being adopted, we are uncomfortable with the technology that the Government has adhered to. Yesterday was the session of the Constitution Committee. At that session, it was only shyly announced that the government was coming in the afternoon with amendments, whose content no one knew anything about, the contents of which some ministers did not know at all. How good is it to build trust between the position and the opposition? Have we really missed out on the possibility that if we really consider them relevant, we can communicate in the right way. It now remains a bitter impression that, in particular, the first and second amendments to the Government, in fact, want to draw public attention from relevant issues and problems not only faced by the Government, but all citizens in Croatia, economic troubles, crises, recessions, are indeed the first and basic issue on which to find as effective answers as possible. It is not communicable for the Government to be parallel to this situation where a situation in which 7.8% of signatures have already been collected for one, to call a referendum, when I say 7.8%, I mean first of all a real number of voters in the Republic of Croatia, rather than formally registered, because we know well that it is impossible for Croatia to live just over 4 million, and that 4 and a half million are listed in the voter list. And now what's the point where people should be separated from each other? What's the point of political bickering? Who needs that? So is it not true, 100 times verified, that in the Homeland War, which was fought in defence, legitimately, honorably, the Croatian political people, and not only Croatian citizens from Croatia, but also emigrated and native Croatia. No one can reduce the merits of a single man who put on the uniform of a Croatian soldier and a policeman and went to war, especially those who returned home crippled, or those above all who remained forever on the defender of the country. But why this exclusive, when we know very well that hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people gave everything they knew and could protect Croatia and win, as well as those in the uniforms of doctors, nurses, firefighters, as well as those who worked in the industry that served the war, who, working in the industry that served the war affected the areas. Hundreds of thousands of people who cared for more than a million and 700 thousand exiles and refugees. How many workers have worked to withstand this incredible blow almost never remembered in our history. The pensioners lost part of their pension, as Mrs. Vesna Pusic said, and today they get that debt back. And why do they split you now? Asking who won the war. Well, Croatia won the war. That's the only truth. We don't need this theme. That's where we absorbed the subject. Let's deal with the real problems. If anyone considers that there are some political issues that need to be discussed at the level of change in the Constitution, let him normally open the subject. Well, it's been months of discussion, and we're now in a situation where as we discuss here, the Constitution Committee can only now discuss it at all. Who needs that? What kind of responsibility is that? So I get the impression that we've all got some payday, or that we're actually overpaid for the level of responsibility that's expected of us, because the drone and the mutator as much as they pay you. The only people who did not participate in the defence of Croatia, who did not win for Croatia, are thieves and war profiteers. And thank God this Constitution will change in a way that will not be forgotten, and if possible, it will be persecuted. And that's enough. It is a sufficient framework to preserve the honorable and honest face of all who have won. That's why I'm calling for reason. Let's not go to the finals of this very important business of putting each other's feet together, but it's worth finishing, we probably didn't do everything we could, but there's probably going to be a chance to correct what we did wrong, provided we have the strength and admit it. And then let's get to work, because here's the government announcing that there will be 14 laws that will change almost immediately after the amendment of this Constitution. Are we aware of what is waiting for us to join the EU? What do our obligations become? It's a big job, for responsible people they have something to do and what to think about. And that's our job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54708	Thank you. It's time for the Honorable Representative of Silvano Hrelja. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And as the last honourable representative, in this debate please, according to this point, the honourable representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister and other representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will not speak exclusively of my position on this occasion, but I will also try to say more about those attitudes of the citizens who called me last night and this morning and asked that their position, their opinion, their view of these changes of the Constitution here today. My colleagues and colleagues all know that the Constitution is the law of all laws, that it is the highest legal act in one country and that a reader of which list of pages of the Constitution on that state learns a lot. It learns all about its political system, human rights, cultural, economic and other achievements, its social activities, etc. It is therefore extremely important for all those concerned by the amendments to the Constitution to take part in the debate and in the adoption of a final proposal for the text. And that's probably why most of us were satisfied with the fact that over a few months there were relatively many discussions, meetings, attempts to coordinate attitudes between different political options etc. There were also objections, legitimate objections that could have been better and needed better. But I, along with probably 99% of Croatian citizens, was convinced that on June 10th, this job ended. That an agreement has been reached, that we have come to the final text that we will today in a civilized and ecclesiastical way do and crown that success. Unfortunately, what I expected was neither Croatian citizens. 5 days after the alleged agreement has been reached in this assembly, the Government has decided to send a series of amendments to this amendment to the Constitution. Is the government preparing for months in the Parliament? Did the government even know that there is a movement here in this building to change the Croatian Constitution? No initiative for months to come after work has been completed with the amendments. And then what do we do today, colleagues and colleagues? Instead of sitting down this morning, our colleagues sitting on the Committee on the Constitution, having considered these amendments, having always come out with the proposal they consider to be the best, the best, the best quality, and after that, we see what we will really accept and then vote for that option afterwards, we are doing exactly the opposite. We're discussing something, what? We don't know what the parent committee's position is. They only retired a few moments ago. Didn't it make sense, Mr. Vice President, that we broke up this morning? Instead, 2 parties agree that all their deputies withdraw, right, to give up their debates, so that the debate is as brief as possible. I think it's the wrong way and the wrong way to work. I'm not going to say a word about what was agreed on until June 10th, but I'm going to say a few words about the amendments that we at least heard about today and saw, here we got them on our benches and saw the position of political parties. I agree with my colleague, Goran Beus Richembergh, who said that we should not at this time safely single out a single category of Croatian citizens. None of us, I can't think of a way to demean anything that happened during the Homeland War, and especially not the Association of Defense. But, colleagues and colleagues, I'm proud of that period. It was the period of the greatest unity of the Croatian people in its history. We all know that. I personally know many people who have sold their companies in the world and sent full income to Croatia to defend themselves. I know many people who have been hired for years through humanitarian organisations, millions and millions of euros in value have been brought to Croatia to help the defence war. Of course, the defenders did the most, but what your colleague Goran said was there were workers, there were pensioners, there were youth, our youth through various organizations, etc. Let's not leave anyone out of this opportunity. We're talking about Croatia that won, we're talking about the Croatian people who won. Let's not do what's proposed here. I'm really asking you, I'm a little funny because right now I should raise my hand to highlight the role of defender, and when I ask you to give me a list of these people, give me the names of these people, then I'm told, "No, you have no right to do that, Doric. Thou art but a people's representative; thou hast no right to do so." The Trodiocy of Governments, colleagues and colleagues, the argument in other European countries, the Supreme Court or the Judicial Authority does not account for Parliament in Parliament. That's right. That is true, in many European countries this is not really done. However, opportunities in these European countries are also significantly different. We are now on the path of trying to change a lot in Croatia as a rule of law. We know how much the minister has been struggling these past months and years, two days with an attempt to achieve real reform in the Croatian judiciary. Unfortunately, we are not in the same position as those other states. I believe that it is opportunised, that it is necessary, that even if there is one communication between the judicial and the legislative authorities. What's the power of judgment got to fear in talking to the people's representatives? What does he have to be afraid of? Is it logical to listen to the representatives of the people, to listen to the objections and remarks that Croatian citizens have on their work, to advance the situation through this coordination with them, and to really get the implementation of what the Minister of Justice says every day? Finally, where in that story are the citizens, the citizens who report to you and me every day. In a true democracy, we can value changes in the democratic process, in what way? First of all, in a way to see how much citizens can influence the political decision-making process. Not only once in four years through elections, but also in a 4-year period through referendums, through councils through local committees, through various forms of participation by citizens. My colleague Lesar was talking about the referendum issues, there's no point in me repeating his words here, I agree with most of what he said, but I'd like to repeat here what happened to me six months ago. One of our ministers was invited to come... at 11 months last year to sign, to paraphrase, a protocol concerning citizens' participation in the political process of the member states of the Council of Europe, he could not come because of the disease but the prime minister, the foreign minister, the president of the state authorised no one to come and paralyze the document instead. The goal is Europe, and then it must be our goal for citizens to really influence the political decision-making process. We do not know whether it will be accepted to reduce that number of citizens, or whose signatures we must gather to reach a national referendum or not. Now, my colleagues are in session, and I'm the last one in this debate, and I'm in this debate very quickly, and I thought I'd just be up for the evening, because 10 or more people have given up, which I don't think is the way it works. Absolutely not the correct way to work a colleague and a colleague, and I think we need to change a lot of things in our work. What I'd add as a personal contribution that we haven't talked about so far, I'll end up with, that's, let me just have 30 seconds. This is the fact that we are now a state of market economy, in the form in which it is but capitalism that we must certainly improve. My colleagues and colleagues, in the constitutions of many European countries, this is crucial, stands one sentence of capital bound by one who owns it in relation to one who works with him, his factory, his country, his society. That part is missing in our Constitution, and I'm sorry that no one remembered that's exactly what we're copying. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54710	Thank you. You've run out of time and stick to it. Don't make me warn you. And I just want to warn every single person whether they're going to argue or not, and it's not someone else's business to declare it in order, correct or incorrect. Each individual depends on himself and decides whether or not he will discuss it. So let's just leave it to the point where we don't properly or incorrectly evaluate it. And now we have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54711	When you spoke about the Government's proposal to remove the already-verified amendment of the Constitutional Committee once a year by the Supreme Court president from the amendment of this Constitution, i.e. the supplement. You said there are no customs in some European countries. But here it is precisely that the only effective danger, the only danger that is real to the judicial authority, always comes only from the executive authority, and there is no other mechanism, nor from the one outside of Article 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which may prevent such a kind of intervention or difficulties in the work of the judicial authority if it is not Parliament. Therefore, the logic is that cooperation and coordination between different types of government can be achieved through mutual information. This is about a provision that really doesn't have any repercussion, so there's no vote on the report, it's not a classic report that's information practically. So isn't it normal for a Parliament that adopts the laws under which the judicial authority works to get information about what is with that system that it has shaped through its vote, whether it works and how to help it function where it is stuck. This is also a matter of preventing the executive power from, in its nature, disrupting the judicial authority in the exercise of its Constitution of defined business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54712	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54713	You told your colleague Beus that it was the logic of things that the Fatal Authority appeared and gave a report here to the MPs. I would not agree that it is the right term, it is not the logic of things, it is the need of things, Croatia must at this moment really change a lot, reform, improve in the Croatian judiciary in order to call it a satisfactory state. So I think for years, we may need decades, not just a logic that they appear here before us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54714	Thank you. And now we have another replica, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54715	Mr. Vice President, while I'm here, I'm going to say what I mean no matter how the president of a particular political party interpreted it, I don't think you can agree with 2% of the votes that are signed, which are necessary for the referendum. Because it would really mean that in Croatia we would have a referendum every week or every other week and that this level of democracy would rise primarily to one kind of anarchy. So this ratio 5% is sufficient argument for the weight of the referendum itself that is needed. And as for this Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia itself, it is unfortunate that the president must meet the Parliament that makes the decision on the appointment of Constitutional Judges, and of independence itself is best stated that, for example, State Secretary Mr Antun Palaric, who has been acting as State Secretary exclusively as one political party, has been appointed to the Supreme Court by this Parliament, and the issue of independence is indeed questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54716	Thank you. The answer is no to the replica, the esteemed representative...... Miljenko Doric. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You've finished your honorary counsel. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54717	My colleague, you noticed that in my presentation, I didn't mention two or five percent, I did it on purpose. I wanted to know what our parent body's position was. If that's 5%, Doric completely agrees.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54718	Well, at least you agreed on something. And now, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Prime Minister Ivan Shimonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54719	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I listened very carefully to your discussions. Just because some of them don't comment or answer questions doesn't mean I don't take them seriously. If I get some of the questions in writing, of course, I'll be happy to answer them in writing. However, I would like to say something about a subject of great value. It's a matter of reporting to the President of the Supreme Court. Namely, I would agree with MPs Milanovic, MP Pusic, that the division does not mean a conflict between the authorities but that a kind of co-operation between different authorities is needed, but a co-operation that preserves autonomy necessary for the mutual control of the three authorities. I also agree with Pupovac and Doric that they can imagine a practical situation, for example related to judicial reform where it is useful for the Supreme Court to address the Parliament and to discuss it because it provides support and better understanding. But this does not require the introduction of an appropriate provision into the Constitution but is sufficient to have an agreement between the representatives of the two authorities, a consensus between parliamentary deputies and the President of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court, then, is not obliged to submit a report, but when they both consider it useful, and I argue that it is useful when it is necessary, that it is realized. In addition to such a solution, the comparative practice of states, European states, says that there is largely no legal obligation in the large majority either by the Constitution or by law that the President of the Supreme Court reports to the parliamentary body. This team should be more valid in Croatia because the Supreme Court or the President of the Supreme Court in the Croatian system does not control the budget for courts or even, in fact, its own budget of the Supreme Court. So, given the time off, I would only suspect that I, for the sake of all this, advocate that the Constitution does not establish the obligation to report to the President of the Supreme Court but to encourage good communication, including the appearance of the Supreme Court president, and also to report to the Assembly when Parliament and the President of the Supreme Court find it useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54720	Thank you. That's what we're done with, and I'm closing the debate. We will now interrupt the debate, or interrupt the session, and continue at 15 hours as announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54721	... We'll continue the session in 15.30 minutes, then we'll wait a little while longer. [[Home is not saved.]] Thank you very much. We have a quorum 82, 83, but hopefully it will. We can start and move on to the Proposal for a Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. The government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted amendments. The amendments were also submitted by the SDP and Dragutin Lesar club. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendments tabled, President of the Constitution Committee, Vice-President Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54723	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on the Constitution and the political system discussed today at the meeting of the amendment at the Proposal for a Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia The SDP Representatives Club and the representative Dragutin Lesar. In view of the amendments, one government minister of justice and a representative of the government proposed one amendment and a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54724	Prime Minister, Justice Minister Ivan Simonovic will declare the amendment to one government's amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54725	So should I describe the change or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54726	Just for a little while, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54727	The point is that in front of the words "freedom" is added to "defense" and that the words "Croatian defenders" are inserted in the words "Croatian people and Croatian defenders" in front of the words "Croatian defenders". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54728	So, as amended by the first amendment, which was explained by the Minister of Justice. So, with the amended first amendment to the government, which has now been completed here by the Minister of Justice, we will declare ourselves. Is it necessary to read again what the amendment reads? Please, sir, this is where the minister brought it out. But how the whole of it actually now is that amendment that we accept in this new form. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54729	I am now literally quoting: "In the new Constitution of the Republic of Croatia (thousands of the 1990s) and the victory of Croatian peoples and Croatian defenders in a fair legitimate and liberating Homeland War." The unchanged text is still running.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54730	I think it's all clear now. It's all clear. We declare this amendment to one government. Let's please get involved and vote on this amendment to Government number one, which the minister has added to how you are. What? Here you go, Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54731	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry, just two words. Since I was on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU was talking about this particular subject, I would like to take this opportunity to say that given the change and that we and the Croatian people consider here of course the political people, so citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to thank and accept such an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54732	Thank you very much. I am voting on this amendment. Please, let's get on board and make a statement about the amendment. The result? The amendment was accepted by most votes, 109 votes for, 6 abstentions and nothing against. I'd like a representative of the proposer. Next, the second amendment to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54733	It is the second amendment, and there are seven five committees who have proposed that the Parliament accept this amendment. It is about the fact that the special care of the state is dedicated to the protection of Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime disabled persons, widows, parents and children of the dead Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54734	Thank you. Please state the second amendment. The debate is closed. 2nd Amendment, we declare the 2nd amendment of the Government. Please, let's get involved and vote on the amendment. The result? The government's amendment was accepted by the majority of votes, 119 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 6 against. Third amendment of the Government, I would like to ask the applicant's representative for the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54735	The Committee on the Constitution unanimously adopted the amendment proposal to add in Article 16a a new Article 16a, which reads as advisory, professional and other tasks, in the Office of the President of the Republic in the organization and in part of the Office, the President of the Republic of Croatia shall be governed by its decision, the Office of the President of the Republic and the Professional Service of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall cooperate in the performance of matters of common interest, the means of work of the Office of the President of the Republic shall be provided in the framework of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Unanimity on the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54736	Thank you. I'd like to make a statement about this third amendment. Let's get involved and vote. The result? This amendment 3. The government was accepted by most votes, 132 votes in favour, one abstention and nothing against. 4th Amendment of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54737	7 votes against, 5 for, the Committee proposes that this amendment be accepted, so to erase that the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia reports once a year the Croatian Parliament on the work of the judicial authority, the report is not voted on. The Committee therefore proposes that, most of the votes, this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54738	Thank you. We declare an amendment to the government. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Here you go. Who isn't? Let's vote. The result? The government's amendment was accepted by most votes, 73 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 59 against. I'm asking the 5th Amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54739	The 5th amendment to the government reads, it is the Committee on the Constitution that unanimously accepted this amendment. It shall read: the amendment to the Constitution shall take effect on the date of its declaration, with the exception of Article 4 in the part relating to the execution of the decision on surrender, adopted in accordance with the legal property of the European Union, Articles 25 and 141b, 141.c, and 141.b of Article 28 of this amendment, which shall enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The Constitution committee, then unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54740	Thank you. Let's get involved, let's vote on the 5th amendment of the government please. Thank you. The result? This amendment was accepted by most votes, 133 votes in favour, one abstention and nothing against. I would like to request a statement on the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 14 of the Amendment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54741	The Committee on the Constitution is up to 7 votes against and 5 to propose to the Croatian Parliament and proposes that the amendment of the SDP Representatives' Club should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54742	Thank you. Let's get involved and vote on this amendment. And on behalf of the club. Here you go, Mr. Lecko.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54743	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia proposes to be proposed in Article 86. The Constitution amends the provision which states that 10% of the signatures from the electoral body of the Republic of Croatia amounting to 4 and a half million you know because of the unsettled voter lists, to amend that provision and to establish a 5% quota by excluding from the referendum issues concerning human rights, fundamental freedoms, equality and protection of national minorities, and proposals relating to the tax system and the state budget. If such a provision were to remain, it would be almost a right for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have direct and direct influence between the two elections on Croatian Parliament's decisions. So if we do not change this provision we will rule out the possibility of Croatians, we will practically rule out the possibility for Croatian citizens to influence the Croatian Parliament between two, in one term, and between two selecting their representatives. Please note that citizens have the right to directly influence Croatian Parliament decisions, and that they are not allowed to do so now. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54744	Thank you. Please include and vote on the amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, which is not accepted by the Proposer. Here you go. Please, the Club of Representatives of the SDP has proposed an amendment to Article 14 which the Proposer does not accept. I'm putting the motion to the vote. Please. We are voting on a proposal for an amendment submitted by the SDP. Whoever stands for that amendment will vote yes, if it isn't will vote against, or won't vote at all. I think that's clear. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This amendment was not accepted because it voted 59, 2 abstentions and 73 against. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment of Mr Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54745	Mr Dragutin Lesar's proposal was unanimously rejected by the Constitutional Committee. This is the same proposal for 10 and further to add that the questions raised by the voter to open the referendum initiative cannot be decided by the competent authorities before the deadline for the collection of the signatures established by law or before the referendum is reached. Plus that supplement before it takes 10%, instead of 10%, it takes 5%. So unanimously rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54746	Thank you. Mr. Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54747	Thank you. So, Mr. President, the expected unanimously rejected insurances of the amendment to the Constitution, under which decisions cannot be made when the voter's signing action in Croatia takes place, or before the referendum is held, if, by chance, 450 thousand provocators would sign, this is supposed to be, under quotes, because that's what some call it, or uninformed citizens who sign what they don't know they're signing and demand a referendum. The current constitutional provision, as well as the laws, enable even when 450 thousand citizens to request a referendum on which Parliament's agenda, draft law or constitutional amendments, so that Parliament can decide and make a final decision before the 15-day deadline expires and after that and after the referendum decision has been called. This fuse didn't like either one of them. Of course, because it doesn't fit the elite who thinks he's the only one who has the right to make political decisions and, in fact, by refusing this fuse, we prove that we are afraid of 330 thousand already collected signatures because of amendments to the Labour Act and the collected signatures to abolish collective agreements. Of course I'm asking for a vote and of course there will be 450 thousand signatures in 3 to 4 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54748	Thank you very much. I put this amendment to Mr. Lesar's vote. Come on in and let's vote. The result? This amendment has not been accepted. It voted 4 for, 7 abstentions and 106 against. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now interrupt this statement on the Constitution itself and we will move on to the final proposal of the Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. We will discuss this and declare this Constitutional Law, and then return to the vote on the Constitution. We now return to the proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. We voted on the amendments. I stress that Article 144 is in line with The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia requires a 2/3 majority of all MPs, so at least 102 votes. I am voting on the Proposal for an amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 133 for, 1 abstention and 4 against the proposal for an amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Along with the amendments accepted. [[Applause.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be voted upon by the following decision: The amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, adopted by the Croatian Parliament, shall be announced at a session held on 16 June 2010. Please, let's get involved and vote on a constitutional amendment. The result? The decision on the declaration was adopted unanimously by 132 votes. So, I further propose that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System propose to the Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is empowered to establish and issue a consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia." I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? The proposal for a conclusion was adopted unanimously with 130 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank and congratulate everyone for achieving such a good, good agreement on the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and I propose and announce that tomorrow we start at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Road Reconstruction Project II (Croatia)/"B", is an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 548. So, goodbye to the morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54751	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes amendments and additions to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. I would say that the most significant newspaper for the first time in Croatian legislation is the fact that members of national minorities and those who make up under 1.5% of the population on the principle of positive discrimination are given a double right to vote. Which means that in the next elections, members of these national minorities will benefit from the general voter's right to vote on party lists and will vote in particular in election units for their minority representatives. The second newspaper of this same constitutional law is the fact that those national minorities who have more than 1.5% of the population in the Republic of Croatia on the date of entry into force of this law, in this case the Serbian national minority, has at least 3 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. And that, apart from those guaranteed 3 MPs on the party lists that they will propose in all election units, so in 10 electoral units, they will compete according to the principle of general electoral law and for other representatives in the Croatian Parliament. In addition to these newspapers, Article 19 The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities also proposes to amend Article 20, paragraph 7 and Article 22, which speaks of how representation of members of national minorities is taken into account in state administration bodies, i.e. local self-government units. Lastly, not least, the paper is an amendment to Article 33 of the law under which the current coordination of the Council of National Minorities is given legal personality under this law and which represents at the level of the country the entire minority, which is why this coordination of the Council of National Minorities exists, so that, after compliance with the provisions of the Serbian National Council, it is necessary to act as a co-ordination of the Serb National Minority Council for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. These would be interventions in this Law, I would like to point out once again that the most important newspaper of this law is to introduce for the first time in the Republic of Croatia a double right to vote for a specific category of population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54752	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54753	Well, the most important newspaper of this law is that this is not about progress, but about the fact that an hour ago the national minorities showed that they would not vote for constitutional changes and suddenly this constitutional law appeared. In normal democratic countries, the constitution is first adopted and then the constitutional law is passed, this is truly unserious.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54754	This is not a correction to an incorrect quote, it's a debate about it. But we're moving on. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54755	Okay, today, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities had a constitutional law on the rights of national minorities or newspapers in that Law, which has been in the first version since 92 and in the second version since 2002, and in this version has been debated for over 3 years and not over the last 10 minutes, someone has participated in it, we have. There was a debate about the Constitutional Law. The constitutional law is in fact a fundamental document that determines the right of national minorities, so I would ask that the debate be held with the dignity that deserves that document and, with respect for the fact that minorities have been very much discussing this document for two years, that is what I could say in general. Otherwise, four amendments have been tabled, the amendments have all been voted upon, and this will be the case when the government is voted, and finally what is most important to you and to all who are giving the wrong indication that everyone, including the representatives of your party, voted in favour of the adoption of this Act because the bill was adopted unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54756	Thank you. I'm opening an argument and the first gentleman is a representative. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54757	My dear colleague, you said that I said the wrong assumption. I absolutely did not say the wrong assumption, but you accused HDZ and SDP an hour and a half ago and the result of an emergency procedure to pass this Act. I have no objection to any national minority, but I have against the way in which you condition the vote of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54758	And yet it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, but we're moving on. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54759	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities after the first major amendment of the Constitutional Law was adopted in 2003 and 2002 respectively, and the first major improvement of the legal basis for the implementation of minority policy in the Republic of Croatia is more important. As it relates to changes to the Constitution in the Republic of Croatia is the most natural thing, because everything that has happened with minorities has also happened with changes in the Constitution. The first amendments to the Constitution that occurred and the first Constitution that was adopted concerned minorities and had immediate consequences for the position of minorities, i.e. future minority policy. For this reason, it is not surprising that these two things connect. What I'd like to say about these changes is this. Minority policy and policy towards minorities over the past 20 years in the Republic of Croatia has not always recorded only positive and positive reports and positive results, but much more often negative, and much more often the issue of minorities' status and the issue of politics towards minorities, shared this society rather than uniting it, there has been a much more frequent cause for mutual accusations between the parties in this House than that they have united over how they will lead the minority policy. The first time that unity happened was when we passed this constitutional law. I believe that this same unity will happen today when we amend certain provisions of this Constitutional Law, and these provisions, as Minister Mlakar has already pointed out, are significantly improving the issue of electoral procedure for representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament. It shall be promoted in that sense by minorities below 1.5% in accordance with Article 15(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in addition to the general electoral right, guarantees and, in particular, the right to vote. This will also eliminate what has been a struggle for many years here in this House to interpret this article in paragraph 15. With these amendments to the Constitutional Law, it's definitely behind us. With minorities below 1.5% in Croatia, in our case, the Serb minority in Croatia will also be resolved on a different basis because the result of the assessment that if a model of general and special voting rights is applied for all minorities and then for Serbs, in order to significantly disrupt relations between political parties, political matches between political parties. And for this reason, it has decided to compromise, and the compromise consists of representatives of Serbs being elected under general electoral law, by being guaranteed at least three mandates and by being deprived of all the inconveniences they encountered when they came to the polls about whether they wanted to vote as minority members or to vote as citizens. This way they will be able to decide whether to vote for one political party or another political party, and the fact that there will be among these political parties and national minorities is only the way we help political integration of minorities, how we help integration and cohesion within this society. And therefore, regardless of certain doubts about whether this is a good solution, I call on you to support this solution because it is of interest not only to minorities, not only to individual parties, but to all of Croatia. As for regulating the position of minority institutions discussed by Minister Mlakar, the issue of national co-ordination. The National Coordinations of the National Minorities Council did not have the property of legal persons which was simply not logical because all these minority councils have the property of legal persons, have been chosen under a special electoral procedure and prevent national coordination from having the property of legal persons de facto preventing these minority councils from being coordinated, having a single policy, having a unique place of bargaining and being one instrument in implementing minority policy within individual communities. As far as the Serb community is concerned, the names here will be mentioned by the Serbian National Council and the Joint Council of the municipalities as a result of the fact that, based on the Erdut Agreement, letters of intent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the completion of peaceful reintegration have been formed by these two institutions and by us since '97. We're trying to find the best way to resolve the status of these institutions. And these changes to the Constitution are definitely regulated by that status and I am grateful to the minister who, after consenting, has agreed to this, I am grateful to the government who accepted it because he knows best how much time we spent in a certain period of time to reach that agreement. And I would say that it puts an end to an open text, that it puts an end to an open story that we have tried to tell all these years, and that point should then allow this story to be effectively and well told in our society, as well as to be well received and well heard outside our society, among neighbouring countries, and also within the European Union. That is why I invite you, colleagues and colleagues, to support these amendments to the constitutional law and to accept them in the way we have adopted the constitutional law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54760	Thank you. On behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go. And I've been informed that the clubs have agreed to speak only on behalf of the clubs, so except for Mr. Serbs and Mr. Lesar, I'm asking the others to withdraw if that's the case with their applications.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54761	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Representatives. Here is the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, P.Z. No. 569. I'm actually holding that what's ahead of us is one civilization step, primarily by party of the ruling coalition. '97. Or '98. For years, we even deleted for example. Bosniaks, Slovenians from the Preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. There, in the early 1990s, the ruling majority or then the Ministry of Justice and Administration annulled the Statute of the County of Istria, and we persecuted even those who were other nationalities, and this time we introduce a double right to vote. Or as someone said earlier, we introduce the principle of positive discrimination. I dare say it corrects injustice not only against minorities but perhaps far more, against parties most consistently represented by minority rights. Why? Because so far we have had the situation that by voting for minority representative, this member of that community could not vote for his representative, or for the list, and so some parties were knowingly punished on the political stage of Croatia for almost 20 years. True, there are those who are clearly seeking to be a civil state, asking whether such a choice is necessary at this time. Let's look at these elections we had on Sunday, on the one hand, elections for minority representatives in some cities, municipalities, let's say Zadar on the other, elections we had over or through the Italian Union in Istria. In one Zadar, for example. That's what I was told earlier. 70 people go to the polls. What's he saying? That some still today are afraid, that they may no longer feel that they declared themselves until yesterday, I will not say that someone has been expelled or that perhaps still in Croatia has not been notified in 2010 to be a Serb or a member of a national minority or perhaps even a mission of those who are representatives of these minorities in the government has not been met. I absolutely am that minorities are elected to the Croatian Parliament, but obviously when it comes to this there are some illogicalities and then someone can be elected with 340 votes, the other MP gets elected with 20,000 votes. Of course it's not fair, but we simply have to be prepared for those exceptions. What is certainly the key to this final proposal of the constitutional law is Article 1(1) of point 3. where it is said that national minorities participating in the population of the Republic of Croatia with less than 1.5% of residents in addition to general voting rights under special voting law have the right to elect five representatives of national minorities in special constituencies in accordance with the law governing the choice of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. What's he gonna say? That this law will surely come. We'll see what he looks like. I still wish that parliamentary deputies, like the president of the state, as mayors, were elected directly. But I also want to believe that some suggestions that have had the opportunity to listen to each other lately will certainly not pass. Article 1 paragraph 2 states that national minorities, which refers to Serbs who participate with more than 1 and a half percent of the population on the day of entry into force of this Constitutional Law on the population of the Republic of Croatia, are guaranteed at least three seats in the Croatian Parliament, and who exercise their representation on the basis of general voting law in accordance with the law to be regulated, etc. etc. I want to believe that this law will not say approximately that that political party or those representatives of Serbs in Croatia who will win the vote more to simply carry all three places. If that were to happen then it would be a favor to one political option. That in no way would be a democratic solution. These would be political agreements, and I think that soon after the parliamentary majority changed in this House, such a solution would have to be changed. When I said that some have not fulfilled the mission and that people have not yet been freed from fear on the other hand, we have different examples. On the same day as representatives of the Serbian community in Istria were elected, both the Croatian and Slovenian parts were elected by representatives of the Italian Union. I congratulate both Mr Furi and Mr Tremul on their election success. Of the 35,000 members of the Italian Union, let Furio correct me somewhere in the Croatian part of them 22,000 declare 10500 people to the Italians, the circus so much as says that people wanted to highlight their national identity. This says that there is no fear in some environments, that there has never been any persecution, that the minority is not marginalized, that it can also highlight its interests through such a form, and this is a more valuable result, for example, that Italian Union representatives in Istria are elected both in Croatian and Slovenian parts of Istria. On the other hand, I dare say we have a good, fair constitutional law. We have, when it comes to this Constitutional Law, certainly the greatest possible standards that could at some point be incorporated into a written act. But if, on the other hand, some elections in one city like Zadar don't come out more than 70 people, then with our practice, respected gentlemen, there's something wrong. Or if one election like that in Istria comes 33% I don't know a member of the Italian community, then that thing is different. And what's wrong with our citizens not wanting to go to that election today? It's a problem of coming back, it's a problem of renting rights, rebuilding through that famous article in 180 or 190. Mandatory relationship law. It is this equal representation in institutions, media, etc. Of course she has to be. Clearly, those who have sinned on any side in this war should be prosecuted to the end of the world. Those who committed crimes should be tried without any sentiment. It is true that we have a situation today in Croatia that the government is also dared to say pragmatic, that today it buys the favor of individual minority representatives. But surely what's far more than money, and what doesn't come true is return, it's housing rights, fair judgments, etc. Either way, IDS is absolutely for this constitutional law. Clearly, some things should be made clear because it says here that many moments will be regulated by law. I wouldn't want to believe that these laws turn into a single parliamentary battle, a fight, a noise, a fight, not to say a referendum. And finally, another question. Why are small minorities such as Italians, Roma, Austrians, Czechs, Russians, etc. they may have a double right to vote, and why the citizens of Serbian nationality do not have a double right to vote under the proposal. It is certainly not civil fair and certainly not in the spirit of the highest constitutional standards of the Constitution that we are adopting today, the constitutional law for which we will also vote. However, regardless of all this constitutional law is civilized so I called it a step. Croatia is home to our minorities, i.e. those other nationalities. We were at war yesterday, today we are united to bring as many better legal proposals and regulations as possible. Some minorities in history have passed through, I dare say, a terrible googogue. It's enough to mention Italian exodus from '47. '54. And this constitutional law is in some way a correction and these injustices for which this generation of politicians from the 1990s are certainly not responsible. I daren't finally tell Istrian not to regret what happened on that or with those exodus. That is why our obligation in Istria was there in '94, the third pardon or fourth in the constitution of the County of Istria to adopt the Statute of the County of Istria, which was often disputed, and therefore it was an obligation for our Italian brothers to give the greatest possible rights. But also to apostrophe and respect all other national minorities in that Istrian and Croatian space. And that is why this constitutional law I dare say and rehabilitate us who have stood behind this Statute of the County of Istria, and this is certainly the end of a story when it comes to the emancipation of national communities both in Istria and in the Republic of Croatia. And so once again I say this is the legitimacy of this constitutional law of Croatia as a state which, as a rare matter, if fair electoral laws are passed, means as rare that respects minority rights, but let's not discrimination within individual minority communities, I mean Serbian here. If the principle is established that with a vote more the political option that succeeds in these elections bears all minority mandates. I know why this is being negotiated in such a way, why such a solution is offered in the towers, which is why the same principle wants to be applied, and when it comes to selecting three MPs from the diaspora ranks, all with the aim of getting a normal majority in this House, or to be even more precise HDZ. All in all, this constitutional law for the third time is a novelty, one step and so much is supported by the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54762	Thank you. We have three corrections. First MP Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54763	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Cain has kept mentioning tenant rights and return every time in his discussion. I last said that there is nothing questionable about the Republic of Croatia having such democracy that all returnees and refugees have received their tenants' rights, their apartments, if in Vukovar 4 thousand 200 apartments are divided, and residents' rights holders, the majority are Serbian nationalities. As for the return of the Croats, they did not all return, for some houses were usurped, and others were torn down. And therefore the question of Mr. Cain that you care about, and care for once the victims of the Homeland War, not the aggressors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54764	Thank you. We have one correction, another correction. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54765	... The constitutional law of counterpart Cain supports the fact that members of national minorities are given the double right to vote. [[You don't understand.]] I'm correcting that finding. She's wrong and not only wrong, she's dangerously wrong. No one under this constitutional law gets a double right to vote, and if any category of citizens gets a double right to vote then that would be deeply counter-constitutional, and the affected equality of citizens. It's about additional voting rights or additional voting rights. It is that citizens of national minorities are now gaining the right, which they have not had so far, to vote in favour of the general lists, and only then additionally and additionally, but not twice as much for their representatives and a certain, limited number of representatives of minorities in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54766	Thank you. And Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil, the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54767	I want to correct my esteemed colleague Cain in the part where he has repeated twice that there is discrimination against a minority. It is this minority, because it is numerous, that more than one and a half percent, that there are enough voters in some way ready to choose its MPs on the general list, in terms of that part of its political parties or of the voter's proposal means as independent MPs. Therefore, it is not discrimination, it is the power of a minority that can be worn on a general, or on a general ballot and on the other hand it is a minority that will not have to be declared in the elections of their own right, because they will have a general list, and therefore it is unnecessary to give additional voting rights, and they agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54768	Thank you very much. I ask clubs, since we have four other clubs and two individual debates, that very soon will come to the agenda voting on this law, constitutional law and amending the Constitution, it is for one and the other to require a two-thirds majority. So I ask the clubs to make sure that the MPs don't evaporate here in these rooms around, and that they're suddenly gone, and now they were here an hour ago. Please. I'm asking the clubs to take care of it now. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54769	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. On the basis of an initiative to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, a group of representatives of this Assembly of 56 among other proposals for amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia also launched an initiative to provide representatives, i.e. national minorities with an additional right to vote. This fundamental request by the representatives of this House, 56 MPs, went towards allowing national minorities to integrate into the political system of the Republic of Croatia, not assimilation. It is very important that representatives of national minorities have the general voting right to vote as it has so far stood in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the additional right to vote in order to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament and to protect national minorities in the Croatian Parliament. Accordingly, we in the SDP can say in a certain way that we are satisfied with the solution offered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because it has provided minorities under one and a half percent of the population of the Republic of Croatia with an additional right to vote, without changing the structure of representation in the Croatian Parliament. However, when it comes to the Serb national minority, we believe it is necessary to make sure that the Serb national minority has an additional right to vote, thus retaining the ratio in the Croatian Parliament and the representative number as it has been so far. Therefore, these amendments to the Constitutional Law on Supplements to the current Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, in Article 1 and provide for solutions which I have now spoken of. However, they leave unresolved in this law what the electoral system for the Serbian national community will look like, a national minority, because it is possible, and it has been said that the choice of representatives of the Serb national minority in the Croatian Parliament will be done in 2 ways: a proportionate system, as all MPs in the Republic or the majority system have been chosen, as was the case. We think that we should maintain the same principle as all MPs in the Croatian Parliament are chosen, therefore by a proportionate system. In other words, the Serbian national community can also show, as I say, more political options within itself. Second, what is very important to mention and what we particularly support is Article 3, that is, the amendment to Article 22, paragraphs 2 and 3. - it is very important for members of national minorities to be given representation in the bodies of the state administration, in accordance with the provisions of a special law. I think it is very important for the integration of national minorities into the Croatian political but social corps. It's a provision that, in particular, stimulates the support of this law. However, when it comes to Article 4. The proposal to amend and supplement the law points to the indeterminate nature of the situation proposed here. In particular, new items 5 and 6 shall be added. 33rd of the applicable positive National Minority Rights Act, the coordination of the National Minority Council for the Republic of Croatia is hereby established as a non-profit legal entity. The Serbian National Council is reformed or legalised by this law that it is the co-ordination of the Serb National Minority Council. I wish this was the kind of proposal that came from the Serb community, not from the Parliament. The more I, please, would like to have such a proposal from the Serb community, the more the work content of each other is no closer to determining here. This is also done for the joint council of municipalities in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem which I support, but should know the content and tasks of that body. So, let me get this straight. The SDP will, of course, support and vote in favour of this bill, i.e. a step towards the integration of national minorities into the political and social life of the Republic of Croatia, allows members of national minorities below 1.5% to use general electoral rights as well as all citizens of the Republic of Croatia under the Constitution without showing their nationality. This is not unfortunately possible for the Serb national minority, it should also give closer arguments for such an attitude, for such a position. And finally another sentence should at least say whether a proportionate or majority system will be held in selecting representatives of the Serb national minority in the Croatian Parliament because it is important to determine the meaning of these changes. We will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54770	Thank you, too. One correction, Mr. Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54771	I'd like to thank Mr. Lecki, he's one of the few things that I in this session, if not the first to correct an incorrect quote. The point is that this proposal regarding the status of minority Serb institutions in the Republic of Croatia came from the Serb community. There is also the coordination of minority organisations in the Serb community that is not the formal body that adopted the proposal. There is an assembly of the Serbian National Council that gathers all elected councilmen, or councils that adopted this proposal before it came to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. And besides that it is not de-located to this House, it is written in a letter of intent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on peaceful reintegration in point 9 which is '97. The year adopted as a document on the integration of the remaining part of the Republic of Croatia into the constitutional and legal system is another proof that this is too serious constitutional and legal matter to be detroved. But I am not correcting this in a bad way but as just an addition to what I may not have pointed out enough in my speech and thank you for the announced support of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54772	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club – HSU, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54773	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. It's a big day for members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Because it is obvious that political representatives of the majority people have the strength to expand the space in which it is possible to form a representation of national and minority communities in the Republic of Croatia. This famous right of the supplemental vote, as counterpart Stazic said, is wrongly called a double right to vote, because it is justified as a university testimony that the representatives of the majority people are willing to think and talk about the level of the exercise of the rights of national minority communities, or their members, such as we have not had for a long time, which allows for a completely different performance not only in the election elections but also in citizens as voters. And that's one of the two most important things that this proposal brings and that the HNS and HSU club will certainly support. Another important thing is guaranteeing representation in the authorities of the administration, regardless of whether it is state or local. What has so far been declared to have been resolved, and what has not been implemented in practice, which has led to more than a year of delay, let's say, these days we choose some mayors, mayors. More than a year after regular local elections. It is now becoming one norm in the Constitutional Law, which I warmly hope the Government will monitor, monitor its application and advocate without any remainder for its implementation precisely because wherever there are objective reasons to reduce all possible types of interethnic tensions. However, we have certain reserves according to the solutions included in this Constitutional Law. When we're talking about the so-called. With the additional right to vote, unfortunately, we must conclude that this is a proposal that goes segregately towards members of national minorities. You don't need to speak the esopean language. This proposal only allows minorities who are up to one and a half percent in the total population to apply the additional voting rights, but not to the Serb minority. So members of the Serb national minority in the Republic of Croatia will not have an additional right to vote. It's segregation. Professor Pupovac said we are aware that this issue was burdened by political relations, i.e. that the issue could have been resolved in other ways to disrupt relations between political parties. Does this mean that party interests have overcome national interest? Does this mean that the party interests in this case have overcome the civil interest? We cannot identify with such a solution. Is it really in favour of the Serb national community in the Republic of Croatia to define in this way a special solution that is not at all privileged, but deprived. Some members of national minorities, even their representatives, may say it is none of their business. It concerns all members of the national minorities. Because as members of the Serb national minority, so is others. The Serbian national minority is the most numerous in the Republic of Croatia when it gets cold all the other rains. So here's the question of principle. The question is therefore the principle of whether it is good to use double criteria. Let's take it one step further. Let's see what we're also offered with this constitutional law? The specific position of the Serbian National Council. The current Constitutional Law defined in Article 33 that representatives and councils of national minorities in units of local and regional self-government can be joined in coordination and that coordination is considered as established if more than half of the Council of Minorities approaches it. We are here now that there is a co-ordination of the Serb National Minority Council. This proposal turns the Serbian National Council into a co-ordination. Is that good? To this end, the Serbian National Council would have a specific situation from some others, such as the Bosniak national community, the German community or some other organisations that are co-ordinated within their national minorities. It was founded and registered in 1997, reminding me that the founders were both political parties and parliamentary representatives. So, not representatives exclusively of minority councils. What does that mean now? That co-ordination will prevent it from deciding how the Serbian National Council is run as co-ordination, because it already has its structure built, defined, functional and people elected. Is that good? We refer to the Erdutic Agreement, we refer to the 1997 letter of intent. I read both the document carefully. These are not documents that define that arrangements to calm the war situation and for peaceful reintegration will be peaceful arrangements in the Republic of Croatia forever. Is that a good way to get over the members of a minority? Isn't that how we put them in a position where whenever their problems are discussed to address them exclusively to these two institutions? We're not satisfied with this approach and we don't think introducing a non-fixed quota of at least three is correct. The moment we fixed some unfixed quotas so far, we now have a new solution. I'm speaking here on behalf of the HNS, HSU, and I don't want to be personal. But as a member of a national minority, I also have a personal view of all this. Whenever the issue is threatened by the rights or ultimately by any representative of the national minority or any of the members of the national minority organisation, I feel it personally. Because I don't consider myself a representative of a single political option here. Because, as you know, we are by the Constitution as national representatives, representatives of all Croatian citizens, so that means members of national minorities. And that means Mr. Mlinaric and your constituency as you are mine when you want to communicate in this way. This is what it is, therefore, that no one feels with greater rights, but not with smaller ones, and that the principle of positive discrimination is translated only and exclusively into an institution that will ensure a smooth fulfilment of the law, in particular by the constitutional law of defined minority rights. The HNS club, the HSU, will give its representatives to vote on this constitutional law according to their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54774	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, Mr. Representative Furio Radin. I'm asking clubs to collect so to say a little bit of their MPs because we'll quickly finish and vote on two important laws. The Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54775	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Club of National Minorities, of course, supports this Act, not only to support it but also addresses the parties in the Croatian Parliament and all parties in the Croatian Parliament and the ruling coalition and opposition to respect the fact that it is the law that national minorities recognise as an instrument of their action in the next long term and as an expression of their interests. I would pray for the understanding of the parties because such a law was actually passed since 1992 when it was first adopted it was always in the function of protecting the rights of the national minority, it was initially brought in those times that were difficult, it was adopted under the assurance that I was using one... international community, but after that all changes were, in fact, a moment to analyse the position of national minorities but also at some times these changes were traumatic for national minorities like the one that was adopted in 1995 where the Law of Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities was actually mutilated, and we found ourselves mutilated at one point in front of a law which the minorities did not recognise, at that point in those 5 years we actually pleaded for that constitutional law to change, we did not find understanding then. The first two years after democratic changes have also not come across understanding, in the first case of HDZ, in the second case of SDP, the conditions have changed and the context has changed, we are in front of the European Union, we are in front of a future that will not be determined by ethnicity, will be multicultural in itself. Part of sovereignty, as Vesna Pusic said today, but from the constitution of Croatia will be transferred to the European Union, I would pray indeed for parties and certain that are not recognised in certain parts of the Law to think only once about it and I will repeat that to those who do not listen to me now, let them bear in mind that these changes are in the interest of national minorities, I repeat in the interest of national minorities, do not forget that. Because we won't forget opinions that take the right to know better than we do what the interests of national minorities are. Ingrid, I hope you've been listening to me, you're just talking so you're not listening to me. Then I'll repeat right for you. I'll say it next. I will say that I hope that some MPs will not think that they know better than representatives of national minorities and their associations who are the interests of the national minority. That's what I was saying, so you say what you want. These changes here, said Mr. Cain, I thank him for everything he said before, these changes are actually small, but small by volume but epochal are nature. For 18 years, Mr. Stazic has not also been thanking him for what he said before, for the additional right to vote, as Mr. Seks has recently spoken of an additional rather than a double right to vote, and that is correct terminology, I thank him. For 18 years, I have fought for this moment to bring provisions under which, in addition to the general vote, members of the national minority have a special right to vote, not to exclude one another. To be citizens and also to be representatives of national minorities, which we are. In the first years I will be honest with you, the first years in the Parliament only supported me by IDS, I thank him, the first 8 years only supported me by IDS, and then the next 4 years only IDS, and then a little bit of IDS has spread out, of course I'm not talking about national minorities, it's expanded, this consent has expanded, and today we have a unique situation in which both SDP and HDZ actually support it, and I thank them publicly. These amendments to the Constitutional Law have certain parts that we have tried to correct with the amendment. I'll just mention some amendments, of course we'll discuss other amendments later when they're adopted. There's a provision in the article where we talk about choosing which guarantees, and then we knew what we were doing, when we talked about which guarantees the right that she specifically says that acquired rights are respected. What does that mean? This means that certain minorities have acquired rights as regards representation in the Assembly, and these rights can only be extended rather than narrowed down. This is where the part fell out and we arranged it with an amendment that the government immediately accepted, as accepted by the other three amendments that were previously the Club of National Minorities, and then the Committee proposed. I thank you for the patience that most people have for national minorities, because national minorities actually live on that patience in some way. Because without what we in Istria call con vivenza or co-existence, we have no chance of achieving our rights at all, and we have no chance of even being happy without having one quality life with the majority people. I will never be able to thank more than I thank all those of the majority people who speak for the rights of the national minority or as Cain said before, who speak of the exodus. Imagine, in Istria, I, as a representative of the Italian minority, do not have to talk about the tragedy of the exodus because one member of the majority people, Cain talked about it, it speaks all about us, but today it is one of the qualities that has spread, it is one of the qualities that is increasingly affecting all of Croatia because Croatia is becoming, which has always been a geographical Europe today becoming more and more Europe in terms of the European Community. So, I said I won't be long today. It didn't turn any lights on. The National Minority Club of course supports and appeals to the parties to support us in this because, after so many years of political work, representatives and representatives of national minorities know well what is in the interest of their minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54776	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54777	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to correct, in my opinion, the inaccuracy of fellow Radin, who spoke about the fact that representatives of individual parties know better or worse about what is good for national minorities than representatives or representatives of national minorities. I wouldn't agree with that. According to reports by the State Election Commission, more than 66% of national minorities voted in the general list for MPs in the Croatian Parliament in the previous parliamentary elections in 10 constituencys. I belong to a SDP party who does not share its members or voters by national key and I am proud to be a representative and those citizens of other nationalities who voted for the SDP and I think I have the right to speak on their behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54778	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54779	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I see that patience on the way out and that the marble in these benches is so much that I beg you, Mr. President, and last time I spoke here in inappropriate conditions so that this time at least I can speak in peace because the topic is quite interesting, since we got this material right before the debate in which it was said on two pages about a lot of things. Slavonia and Baranja is exactly the region where the largest number of national minorities live. Unlike some other regions, Slavonia and Baranja are proud that there are some 18 national minorities in the territory, in the area covered by the 4th and 5th constituency, so five Slavonian counties. However, I must say that as I said in the first part of the amendments to the Constitution that it was a treaty or a settlement, I would say that this remark can be passed on to this second part of this debate today, which is the proposal for a constitutional law on amendments and amendments to the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. How to explain the previous pledge, and I heard it being pawned here in Mr. Pupovac's parliamentary benches that spoke about the supplemental, as Stazic said, right vote or so on. positive discrimination from which we see today that he has given up with the formulation that minorities with 1.5% of the population are guaranteed at least three seats in the Croatian Parliament. So I emphasize the word at least three or two words. Is there gonna be five, four, six, how do you know that? For those other national minorities that have less than 1.5% of the total population in the Republic of Croatia, five seats are set in the Croatian Parliament. How many members of the Croatian National Minority Assembly will have in the future, and if they will, I am not talking about citizens who belong... but these representatives in the future because of the mandate system and determining the mandate for the future Government of the Republic of Croatia will be a decisive factor and a shift for the political option that will be in power in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think I am clear enough to say that this number of representatives in the Croatian Assembly who belong to minorities will therefore decide who will be in the executive power or who will act as executive authority in the Republic of Croatia. Who says or claims that the nationality or membership of the national minority ceases by entering one of the parties, SDP, HDZ, HDSSB at the end of the day. Are parties acting at national level as political parties, political options exclusively for Croats or in which they are participated by regular members of national minorities and elected for the Council of the Republic of Croatia on the SDP, HDZ, HDSSB, HSP, HSLS, HSS, etc. Whether it is their right to dispute and what will happen on such party lists, whether it will appear precisely because of national minority candidates, candidates on the high-level lists, on the parties' lists. Furthermore, what's going to happen, so we need to think about it here, we're here to think, not talk. Mr. President, give it a rest, this one would say knight. So, what's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54780	So we expect to listen to Mr Grubisic speaking quietly, but that is why we need to be even quieter so that we can hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54781	Well, I'm not quiet at all. ... I want a stronger Jambo. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You and me 200 kilos of Jambo. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, what happens in a year, two, three, five? Whether another national minority, and there are good preconditions, will reach a threshold of one and a half percent of the total population and thus gain the right to three MPs, except for the right of the Serb national minority, with the right. So, what happens then? Is that what we're thinking about? Perhaps you would tell me there is someone here in the towers, that we in Slavonia plead as Shocks, so we will have one and a half percent, more than one and a half percent will be safe so we have at least three representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Will Zagorci also be a national minority? What do we do with these things? So when we talk about rights, about that extra right to vote, then right here someone saw and mentioned it, I think that one minority has the right to an additional vote, and the other minorities have no right to an additional vote. I accept the fact that the agreement, therefore to those to whom it suits and who belong to national minorities, clearly in agreement with the constitutional law's promoters, has come to an agreement, so that more corresponds here specifically to Serbs to have at least three MPs, than to have therefore a double or an additional right to vote. Mr. Radin says it's their right as a national minority. If so, then there is no segregation that Mr Beus spoke of if it is the representatives of the Serb national minority that agreed with the promoter of this constitutional law. As I think it is the result of the treaty, settlements and certain mutual and inter-party discussions and agreements and the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so I think that there has been time, and that time has been given to study and give them a much more studioous proposal on the participation of national minorities in political life and on the work of Parliament, on the work of the Council of the Republic of Croatia than in this, I would say this in this way. Therefore, I won't be against it, but I won't be in any way to resolve the rights of national minorities under one constitutional law. I'll stay restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54782	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, HSDAHA Mr. Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54783	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, distinguished fellow MPs and parliamentary deputies. First of all, I thank my colleagues from HSLS for allowing me to take advantage of the opportunity to speak on behalf of our joint club, because I wanted to apply as in the individual discussion. But it's been said that we're just gonna be talking constituency clubs, so here I am in front of you. As a member of the Constitutional Committee, I participated in a debate on constitutional law, on the rights of national minorities. Since I am a member of one of the national minorities, and this is a Bosniak minority, and I am also speaking on behalf of four other national minorities of Albanians, Montenegrins, Macedonians and Slovenians, I feel that I have something to say. And right away, I have made it clear in the session of the Constitutional Committee that as often as very often, members of the Bosniak minority remain definitely deprived of this law. We've been denied for many reasons. It is obvious that the history of torture is over the Bosniak people in the area of the former Yugoslavia, because what is happening today in Croatia is not only a Croatian specificum. Jump to Slovenia and you will see what the population list in the Republic of Slovenia looked like, so you will find Bosniaks there, you will find Muslims. So what we have in Croatia. But you'll find the Bosnians there. So, simply when it comes to decomposition of the Bosniak people, then virtually invent various variations, subvariants, etc. so that the Bosniaks in Croatia who are certainly moving somewhere between three and five percent if they obey the instructions given to us by the Ministry of Administration, if we look at what is done and in the reports of the State Statistics Institute, then you will see that the number is drastically reduced. And I am currently in the second term at the Croatian Parliament. I was trying to do something with coalition partners and co-workers from other national minorities yesterday for members of my people who chose me by asking me to talk about these problems. And one of the leading problems at the moment is that what is said about the double right to vote for members of the Bosniak people is pure fiction. The list of voters is about 7.3% as Bosniaks. When any problem arises where 90 and some percent of some things are not solved properly then it is the problem of all of us. I was in a school where a professor graded students and 93% of the students had a negative grade in one class. It's no longer a problem for the student population. It's not just a school and school infrastructure problem anymore, it's not even a problem just for that professor, it's a signal, something at that school is wrong, and I'm telling you right here in front of everyone. When members of the Bosniak people and after seven years of my mandate and constant stories, the talk about how this issue should be resolved, my conversation with members of the national minorities that we do something together, and when nothing has happened, but I am given one answer in which they tell me, please tell your people, let them come right, we will make a conversion. And it may, but it should also be said that they are very strict in implementing the process of evicting members of national minorities from that record. Let me just explain. If my wife and I, if we have enlisted our children that they are Bosniaks, by the age of 18 they will lead it, but after that they give them the right to delete them, so here if they remember, let them come back and prove that they are who they are. So that it is a people like Serbs, such as Croats, Slovenians, who for centuries have been what they are, members of the Bosniak people have always been those in the former state union of Yugoslavia who have been denied the right to their historical name. And it doesn't mean anything to us that the minister of the administration will tell me, tell your people to come and plead that they are Bosniaks, when that same ministry and some other ministries will take care of some other records that we're not here. The message given to all members of the Bosniak people in the Republic of Croatia is very ugly, if we speak the tone of the Ministry of Administration. You consider whether it is worth it to you to be who you really are. And therefore, I must thank all those who speak of the double right to vote. I think that this is not a good idea, because I don't see why a national minority, even if it was the most numerous, eliminated from that agreement. Because there are a few very important moments here, I'm often in a situation to talk about the rights of these five national minorities, and then they tell me, so you know you're always talking about some rights, and basically I'm talking about denied rights. And the division itself into some old and new minorities is a very strange division. It is so well-conceived that the old minorities should be provided with rights, so let's give you the Italians, settle some other national minorities, and you Bosniaks, regardless of what it says about a thousand Bosniaks have given their lives to defend Croatia, you forget that story, because when they settle, then you will be able to discuss your rights as well. On the other hand, one fact is forgotten here in this agreement. This is where you mention... a deal that might be good. [[You don't understand.]] I don't want to criticize it. But there is also the Dayton Agreement, there is Bosnia and Herzegovina, a state where we have three constituent nations, Bosniaks as the most numerous, but there are also Croats constitutional nations. Why is this agreement on the rights of national minorities not listed and the agreement is not listed? Why did we forget the Bosniaks? Because that's what the chairman of the Human Rights Committee Furio Radin decided. And you should say it like that. That's the problem. The problem is that we simply can't even put elemental things on the agenda. And I remember well, my first agreement with HDZ when I had a very nice conversation with the president at the time about the problem I'm talking about right now. And we tried, we tried to solve this issue as in many civilized countries it was resolved. I emphasized in '21, '31, '48, '53, '61, those are the years when the population lists were conducted on these premises. And they always told us you're not who you are. It wasn't until '71. The years when they saw that the stubborn Bosniak didn't want to be anything else, but that's exactly what they gave us the name religious. If I say I'm a Muslim, then I'm talking about my faith first. My religious manifestation. And I remember well when I was in '72. For years he was in Switzerland, and I spoke to a stranger, he was a Muslim, and I spoke to him so proudly, and I am a Muslim. And he tells me and I'm Muslim. We couldn't have realized for an hour that I was talking about the ethnicity they gave us back then. And '93. years at the time of the most severe aggression and... Over members of the Bosniak people, but also our defenses, fighting, dignity, we returned '93. years in the surrounded Sarajevo of its historical name. [[You don't understand.]] And gentlemen, we are Bosniaks. We were, and that's what we are. And you understand once. Therefore, all of you who will support constitutional changes thank you very much for supporting constitutional changes to vote for that segment that speaks of the original foundations. For us members of the Bosniak people, it is no fiction whatsoever. For us, this is the basis that will show us, to all of us, you see, it pays to fight for some of your political views. It's worth fighting for. And tomorrow when we go from house to house, from man to man, I will proudly give them that original foundation. So now you dare not be who you are. This is about the census as one of the current documents. They forget the gentlemen who created this thing, that the census was '91. the year when national minorities are the only credible census. The census in 2001 is a falsification. See how the registered members of the national minorities are and see how quickly they threw those lists into the fire. Why? Because they obviously made a lot of counterfeits and they wanted things eliminated, that they couldn't be credible and followed. On the other hand, we are entering the EU and that is good, but the EU has some standards when it comes to censuses. And certainly, I'm afraid, some of these instructions will be of little use to us. So don't get me wrong, but I am this constitutional law on the rights of national minorities as it is presented I am not able to accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54784	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54785	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I have to admit, after all these obvious national minority representatives, I'm confused. First by the fact that we made a precedent and interrupted... The microphone is your colleague Gorane. [[/The speaker's not on, he doesn't understand.]] So we made a precedent, interrupted the vote on constitutional changes ended only with amendments and moved on to a new law, without reason why. From these discussions, I understand now. Representatives of the Croatian Parliament, members of national minorities, have denied support for constitutional changes unless some other condition is fulfilled that someone else has pledged to someone else. So we must also discuss this constitutional law so that they can keep the necessary promise and give a vote for constitutional changes. This was probably used on the other side of the assembly, the possibility of not obtaining the required number of votes on some other amendments relating to constitutional changes. That's not good. Negotiations on constitutional changes began in October last year, not 2 weeks ago, not 2 months ago, but in October of last year and were led at various levels, publicly and secretly, publicly visible and publicly invisible and we came to the situation that we are getting the text of constitutional changes today, the Government's amendments, the text of the Constitutional Law, we interrupt the vote on constitutional changes, we move to the Constitutional Law... to return to the vote on constitutional changes later. [[/The speaker's not on, he doesn't understand.]] It just shows that the deals that were run are full of holes, full of gaps and some things that obviously don't suit anyone the most. In the last 2 days, I became aware of the fact that the Croatian diaspora vote on constitutional changes was seen as a vote for or against the diaspora. They reduced the complete constitutional changes only to that for or against the diaspora. All those who have written about it these days and reported now let them take a look at this bill and this proposal in 569 on Parliament's website and they will realize that it doesn't matter and it wasn't true, and the answer in which it is true will find this law. Someone's persistent about turning off the microphones, they're persistent, they're persistent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54786	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54787	Let's go, Mr. President. We're working. We're going to have to outsmart ourselves with a microphone. And I end with the following, this law and such amendments to the Constitutional Law are, in my personal opinion, merely a continuation of the political ghettoisation of members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia without any benefit of progress in the position, position and political impact of national minorities in terms of the achievement of both constitutional and these rights. Because this law and these amendments to the law have only been designed to measure those who have been political representatives of these national minorities over the past 20 years and they cement their position for the next 20 years. And nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54788	Replica, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54789	Nothing Mr. Lesar claimed fits the truth, and it's not true. This law, the Constitutional Law on National Minorities, I dare say, does not only correspond to Croatian nationalists and points. Minority, they actually, to them this law, to them the existing state corresponds... They fight for those who have fought for them all this time, not them, but their representatives, in an honest, open, fair way, represented them. [[/The speaker's not on, he doesn't understand.]] It's clear they're fighting for their members as well. Why? So that someone doesn't count them, and through that act, you make them, under quotes, "unfortunate." If this legal proposal doesn't answer to anyone, Mr. Lesar, then perhaps at this point that legislative proposal is not responding to HDZ, but they are also making that civilization step and giving in the procedure a regulation that fits I would say to most citizens of this country. And that's why I'm talking about civilization change and one necessary quality. Finally, let's be honest and look around. How many parliaments in Europe have directly elected representatives of national minorities? I know about Slovenian, maybe Romanian, and I don't know about any thirds. I'm sorry, I know about the third. It is the Republic of Croatia or it is the Croatian Parliament, but there are not many such countries and it is certainly one quality I want to believe that if it is incorporated into the Constitutional Law will last.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54790	Answer, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54791	Well, after this replica of Caina HDZ, you'd have to seriously imagine yourself. But my colleague Cain, I am not a Croatian nationalist, but a Croatian Labourist, that's a big difference. So I try to always speak and represent what I really mean, so how risky that was. Look what they're doing to me, look.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54792	If you're gonna shut down your colleagues, we're gonna be sitting here for a while. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54793	Here's another five seconds. Be patient. So, I don't want to be a concierge, and that's why I always tell the truth, and I don't court anyone or national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54794	Mr. Representative Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54795	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today we had a conversation and discussion at the beginning of the day about how there are no reasons and the conditions for some laws to be passed by emergency procedure, there were words about the Law on Croatian Television and certain changes in the tax system, and this Law, which certainly deserves a serious debate because it will have serious consequences for the Croatian state in the coming times, is brought to a shortcut in an emergency procedure without serious debate and without serious concept. A short time ago, we had the opportunity to hear from a fellow representative of the Bosniak national minority, who expressed dissatisfaction with this bill, which I completely understand because there are more than 1,000 members of the Bosniak national minority who were Croatian defenders, members of the Croatian Army, who do not have Croatian citizenship at this time, even do not have it. And of course there's dissatisfaction. If Croatia owes it to someone, it is Croatian defenders and also members of the Bosniak national minority, who deserve to have Croatian citizenship above all and do not have it. Of course, members of all other national minorities so as not to hurt anyone, I couldn't agree more. Therefore, to whom does this Law guide? Let us look at page 42 of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Is it beautifully written to help local and regional self-government, municipality, municipality of Turinci in this year 0 kuna, Trpinja 2 million 155 thousand, Negoslavci 974 thousand, Markusica 674 thousand, Šodolovci 164 thousand, Civilians 996 thousand, Drvenik 2 million 300, here is one Croatian Kijevo only 500 thousand. But then turquoise over 3 million kunas. I ask nicely in which the European State shares money from the state budget based on the ethnic composition of the population, it is nowhere to be found. It's not a civilization step, it's a matter of contract and settlement. With long-term consequences of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I don't want to talk about such an important law as the rights of national minorities. The rights of national minorities are realistic and that there are Croatian defenders, members of the Croatian Army who have no regulated citizenship, this is indeed a question of Croatian defenders and relations to the Homeland War and relations to national minorities. Why isn't there a single municipality here with, say, the Hungarian population, why, say, not one municipality with the Swedish population or anyone else. No, on the basis of ethnicity alone, money is shared, and we read through this Act Article 3 of the National Minority Act, members of the National Minorities, in accordance with the provisions of the Special Law and other acts in the employment policy of those Authorities, shall be ensured. So, a national key is being introduced into employment. Is that a step forward? Is this a step in integration into Croatian society with respect for all rights and specialities of national minorities? It's not. That is why the Croatian party rejects rights, does not want to accept such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54796	Thank you. We've got two clubs in five minutes. The first is Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54797	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Since the debate on the Constitutional Law Amendments was under way, we felt from the SDSS Club that it was necessary to say a few more words within five minutes. I say in view of how the debate on the Constitutional Law proposal was under way where various words were heard, in places very difficult, such as the words of blackmail, or like the words of abuse or some similar words. We at the SDSS Club are very close to realizing that if that's the case then there's no need to deal with this. If that's the case, then we don't have to deal with this. We didn't come here to blackmail, we didn't come here to abuse, or sit and serve in this House for that purpose. If it is possible to improve interethnic relations if it is possible to improve minority policy, if it is possible to improve what Croatia needs we are here. If that's not possible, we don't have to be here. We don't have to waste each other's energy, we absolutely don't have to. If someone thinks this is done by some single, party or whatever else I say we don't have to deal with this, I'm not out of these intentions here in this House, not your own or your own party as much as I appreciate it, but I'm for higher reasons. If someone wants to demean these reasons, if they do not want to communicate with him properly, we do not have to communicate properly, but if we can, then I ask you and call for the seriousness of the debate on this matter. There was a question here, a question of how to choose. It will be chosen as the electoral law determines, and we will still discuss it and we will find the best model. That's what my colleague Leko was talking about in a sober way. That's an open question. There's at least two suggestions so far. When it comes to minority institutions, it may be that someone does not understand the importance of minority institutions for future policies and the position of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. It may be that someone does not understand the meaning of the Erdut Agreement and the letters of intent. It may be that someone does not understand the meaning of the moment when we voted on constitutional changes and agreed to be a minority in the Republic of Croatia, although it is a decision to be made much earlier. But we expected that the provisions of the Erdut Agreement and the letters of intent would one day be implemented in our legislation, that they would not only be understood as temporary agreements that serve to end peaceful reintegration, so a year after that nothing. We are now in a position to regulate the provisions of both the Erdut Agreement and the letters of intent and be in constitutional law. If you need any further explanations that I can't say here at the pay phone right now, I'm ready to share with my colleagues with any club. But I ask you to understand that it is of great importance for the issue of the status and position of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. We don't ask questions about what was, we don't even ask what it was like, but in the new circumstances, we ask you to accept what you are but as a proposed solution, which only by constitutional law should be defined by minimum standards when it comes to legal personality. If there was a chance we could have done it in 2002 and 2001, but there was no possibility. Those with whom we negotiated were not willing to give national coordination any status, but wanted to say that they had no legal personality, and today we are coming to say that they have a legal personality. And what's the problem? So please, colleagues and colleagues, one more time. This is a matter that is of paramount importance to minorities. They certainly, as Dr. Radin here said, well know what's best for the work they do. If we need to share some views about it, I'm ready, my colleagues are ready. But if it is necessary to compete in this matter and not negotiate as we have agreed, we have followed the debate over the diaspora, we have supported it and agreed. We expect that both what is agreed and what is agreed on about minorities will also be supported and agreed, and if that is not possible, of course we will have nothing else but we will have to take a position that we think is only possible for us, and that is that we will review our position on how and how the position of Serbs in Croatia, minority institutions of Serbs and the voting rights of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia should be regulated. Then those who talk about sneezing will surely have to talk about coughing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54798	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54799	Thank you, Mr. President. Since it's a short time I'm going to say about the HNS and HSU, but I have to tell my personal what's not clear in this bill. First of all, I must say that I absolutely refuse to be called by anyone in this House as a nationalist of any kind, because I have a slightly longer pedicure in this regard. Secondly, I refuse to be told about thanking me for having patience for national minorities. None of us have any patience for national minorities. I think much longer than most of you here even understand what this is about, about national minorities, I think that fighting for the rights of national minorities is a struggle for human rights, a struggle for civil rights in general, and I have shown it long before this House, and also in this House when the relationship of power was something different, and then the attitudes were something different. We at the HNS support a double or additional right to vote for representatives of national minorities long before anyone else. And in the coalition government in 2000 to 2003, we advocated the additional right to vote for national minorities, and we remained in the minority, not accepted. But then we stood in public and in assembly and in coordination. The arguments for that, I won't present them now because I don't have enough time, but I brought them out here in the assembly, and I think it's an additional right to vote in the club, and we think that the additional right to vote is a way to fight discrimination on an ethnic basis and that it should be introduced. We also believe that it is necessary to say this, to further ensure the protection of the civil and human rights of Serbs in Croatia because it is the most sensitive relationship and because this group of Croatian citizens, given the historical reasons, is potentially in the most sensitive position. And we don't have to pretend stupid or blind so that we don't see the need where the problem is most sensitive, we certainly need extra protection. But in the proposal for these amendments and the additions to the law there are different things that you can agree with more or less, but there is one that I can't accept, I mean the club. And this is that the Institute of the Joint Council of the municipalities in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem established by the '95 Erdut Agreement. and by letter of intent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of '97, so the non-coordination of the Council of National Minorities, not of the other institution, but of one part of the country of people and council members from one part of the country to declare themselves a legal person. The Erdutic Agreement and letter of intent is Croatian Dayton. It's a temporary solution to end the conflict, to get out of the war. We, 15 years later, make an integral part of the state's architecture. I find it unacceptable, I think that we should go in exactly the opposite direction, that we need a maximum extra protection of absolute rights, far above that level which is now the people of other ethnicities, so political Croats, other ethnicities, that the fact that Serbian national minorities or citizens of Croatian Serbian nationalities should pay particular attention and be particularly concerned, I absolutely consider it to be those rights, but that one instrument that was the end should be used, the way the war ends as a permanent integral part of the architecture of the Croatian state, I do not think that, if you think that this is the basis for me to be considered a nationalist of any kind, although I will not consider it to be, but I think it is to push beyond the limits of what is smart and reasonable, counterproductive of the human rights status in Croatia and for all of us who have fought for years for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54800	Thank you. A representative of the government? He doesn't want to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54801	I'm asking you to take a 15-minute break on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54802	Before the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54803	Yeah, yeah. I'm asking you to stop arguing and please take a break for the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54804	Okay. We'll continue the session at 5:00 and 55 minutes. And we do. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54805	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDSS club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54806	Okay. Mr Furio Radin, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54807	On behalf of the National Minorities Club, we're looking for the same break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54808	Mrs. Vesna Pusic is also looking on behalf of the club and the gentleman, on behalf of Mr. Cain's IDS. At 17 and 55 we continue exactly. We had more than 20 minutes. I'm asking you now to sit on the bench and proceed with the session. He was looking for the SDP club, and then the SDSS, the national minorities, the HNS, the IDS break, and I'm asking who on behalf of the SDP? Mr. Joseph Leco on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54810	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It should be said that the SDP Club has, in good faith, accepted in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, a debate on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia without having conducted any consultations on the working group to coordinate these amendments and additions to the Constitution by believing in good intentions. However, when we also received the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and then we believed that we would get what is agreed, which is that national minorities have an additional right to vote. So we accepted the debate despite the speed at which she came to the assembly benches, and we accepted the debate and the amendments to the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. However, the bill came out of the agreed framework on additional voting rights and it is not just about regulating the protection of the rights of national minorities, so the SDP club assessed the whole matter as hasty, and it is about an important law concerning all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, decided that it cannot accept such a speed on important issues of regulating relations in the Republic of Croatia. We think it is very important that this law is only determined by the additional right of the vote of the national minorities. Or, to be precise, we believe that Article 4 does not regulate the right to protect or protect the rights of national minorities but extends something that is not defined as protecting the rights of national minorities. In particular, we refer to Article 4, paragraph 4, or paragraph 8, where the territorial principle regulates the protection of national minorities. It is our view that it is possible at the level of the entire Republic to regulate the protection of national minorities, not in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, to have special protection of national minorities. In that sense, it should be made clear if Parliament accepts the amendment of colleague Vesna Pusic, i.e. the HNS Club, and I don't know HSU, then we could continue to negotiate the modality of the rest of Article 4. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Rights of National Minorities. If the HNS amendment is not accepted, then the SDP club will not vote in favour of the amendment and addition of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. I think we're very clear and open here. Thank you very much. Oh, yeah. I apologize, the SDP Club is on the stand so that we can immediately approach the vote of the Republic of Croatia Constitution and the Law on the Rights of National Minorities allow consultations within the parties, party bodies and within Parliament. We are ready to vote immediately today for the proposal to amend and supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54811	Before the other clubs reported before the break, perhaps now is the opportunity after these suggestions by Mr. Joseph Lek on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to see what to do with this latest proposal? If that is the case, I would also like to request a statement from the HDZ and HSS Representatives' Club on that. If you can do that then maybe if we should take another break, we shouldn't repeat ourselves, then two, three times with breaks and debates, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54812	Mr. President, I'd like a 15-minute break between the HDZ Club. This is a new proposal that needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54813	It remains the right of all these clubs to plead if they want to. And I think it's appropriate that we give this proposal another 15 minutes to the clubs... Please. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] To the clubs once more that; why we'll break something over our knees if the biggest opposition club has a fat reserve on it. Please, nice. ... Yes, but I'm also thinking if we're going to give another break then there's no point in saying these clubs now, but after this break they also stay, plus that Mr. Hebrang. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So we don't argue twice. Please, if you wish, it's okay by the Rules of Procedure that it is now up to Mr. Pupovac to plead. But I thought that's what we're going to include right now, isn't it? Here you go, Mr. Pupovci.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54814	Mr. President, Mr. Minister. I see that and what's little is too much. Well, if that's all right. I'm saying that what's little is still too much. It was no problem to recognise Kosovo but the problem is to recognise the rest of what we have in Croatia when the Serbs are in Croatia. If that's the problem, then I'm asking you to make that clear. Which is the common council of municipalities, which is the authority of the common council of municipalities, which is the power or territoriality of which is now being made by the bogeyman here. An institution established by the government's decision of 98th, which, despite being established by the government's decision, has no permanent source of funding from the government. And what is the power of this, is that the elected Serbian National Councilors in the areas of these municipalities, regardless of whether one councilor or 10 councilors are concerned, have the opportunity to discuss the elements of culture, education and what is defined and the rest as the legacy of the Erdut Agreement, and that is the problem. And that's the problem. And it was no problem even to change the constitutional position of Serbs who were historic, it was no problem to prevent many from returning, it was no problem to decide on the position of one minority in another country which status may have, but this is a problem. I, of course, belong to a minority in every respect, both ethnically and politically, and as a man who belongs to a minority in every respect, I will be able to do nothing but follow what will be the decision of the majority. But as Mrs Pusic has already said here, no matter how many numbers it is and no matter what specific status the Serbs in Croatia had today or tomorrow, they are indeed part of the sensitive Croatian body. Who doesn't want to admit it to a minimum, accept it to a minimum, of course not to communicate with his own body in an adequate way. I can only say that I am very sorry, that even 20 years from the process that has affected us we are unable to get rid of what is an obstacle to finally regulating the minority position of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. I haven't defined the Erdutic Agreement, I've defined some other things but it is an international act and that international act has a lasting power. As well as the implementing acts applied there, they also have permanent power. Whoever wants to know more about it should contact the United Nations Secretary General's office as we addressed a few years ago when this debate took place, so we got that answer. Those who want to vote the Constitution without constitutional law, so who say we're going to vote the Constitution, and we're going to still discuss this, can decide, but I think they're going to make a big mistake. And that is why I call for us to stay with that dynamic and that order that we have agreed to vote on constitutional law and vote afterwards on the Constitution. Because we're very close to it. And colleagues and colleagues. A lot of hard words fell around this, and we've been mostly careful all these years to use hard words. So I invite you not to make this a subject for restoring difficult words, and not to be a subject for restoring what might disrupt what has been built for years. This is an opportunity to put an end to one story on one text, to one part of history and to start over. I call on you to do this, it's not about party interests, it's not about underestimating either this or that variant, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54815	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, Mr Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54816	What Mr. President said about what Milorad said, I wouldn't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54817	We have one correction to an incorrect quote, so first of all, I was wrong, I did not notice Mr. Zoran Vinkovic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54818	Thank you. Dear counterpart Pupovac said it is a little too much now and that it was not a problem to recognise Kosovo as the Republic. This is exactly what this amendment is now asking for and precisely too much because it is seeking the territorial structure of units of local self-government with the majority Serbian population.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54819	This is not, like all those other corrections of an incorrect allegation, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, it's a statement of political opinion, and you keep raising the table and I keep repeating it. But let's move on. Mr Furio Radin, on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, and I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54820	Thank you very much, Mr. President. About what Milorad said now I would have almost nothing to add and we from the National Minorities Club would have nothing to add to what we're going to look for now when the HDZ Club is going to ask for more breaks and we're going to meet again and discuss it. I would pray only by referring to Mr. Lek's words, today we must bring that document. We've been working on it for years, and we know exactly what the positions of everyone are, let's still discuss what's not common today, to come up with any kind of compromises. And then after that, if there is no compromise, then you will be able to say there was no constitutional law because there was no compromise on that. But I'm telling you, Mr. Leko and gentlemen, this law here is too important for both national minorities and what you said, which I respect very much for the majority people and in general for Croatia and for its position, but also for people who think differently more and more about the problem. We won't bring it in. I'll tell you if we don't bring it in today. I'm telling you. That's why we're trying, I remember when you were in power with me and sitting in the Parliament, when in the beginning of 2000 we were just going out with your coalition, going in, going out, going in five six times, all day and part of the night we lost to passing two other laws on minorities being passed by two-thirds of the vote: the Law on the Use of Minority Language and the Law on the Education of National Minorities. We went up and down, up and down. Please, let's do it today, but let's pass that law. And then we brought it in the same way as this, because these are laws that are too important for minorities, but I believe that they are too important for relations that minorities will have and not only with HDZ but also with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54821	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54822	Thank you, Mr. President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. It's not true that it's not a problem to prevent a return. It was, it was and is a problem, it is not true that it is not a problem of a sustainable return i.e. It was and it was a problem. It's not true that it's not a matter of severance. That's right, he was and he was a problem. These are all problems that need to be solved. I'm ready, my club, we're prepared in all ways, as we've done so far, to participate in it, and to contribute to becoming a normal country. However, this proposal, as we know, is not about that. The amendment we've given doesn't talk about any of these things that I've mentioned here, but it's about changing the architecture of the state and that's what I and the HNS-HSU club think it's not good and it can't. I, however, and my club, HNS-HSU, are in favour of a deal and a deal. And we are in favour of agreeing and agreeing and we should have agreed before and agreed on amendments to the Law on the position of national minorities. And despite everything, we support agreeing on the law or these amendments and amendments before the constitution is passed because, as we were against voting on other issues, we are against voting and on this subject, and we think it is important that we agree and reach some kind of compromise, some kind of solution. I think it's possible to reach some kind of solution. So, we think it's not good to go to the overvote, so what if we should take a break, we should give ourselves a break today, if possible, a time to reach a compromise around this point, try to make a deal, and if it doesn't go nicely, then we don't have another way out, but let's try to find a solution and some compromise. On behalf of the HNS and HSU club, I said what we think is too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54823	Thank you. And on behalf of the IDS club, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54824	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the honourable MPs. I have the impression that Mr Furio Radin is absolutely right. If today this constitutional law is not passed then it will never be passed. We've heard now that HDZ would change the architecture of the state. It just doesn't go in my head, it's weird to me, everything can be imputed to them, it's supposed to be replaced, it's not really coming out of hand. But in order for HDZ to change the architecture of the state, I find it at least ridiculous. It just doesn't stand, it can't be. This constitutional law, I've called it that before, I'll repeat it once more is a civilization step. So-called positive discrimination is not just about Croatian nationalists. I had the impression that no one would be exclusive today. I even dare say that minority advocates respond to the existing situation if they look closely at them alone. But they don't fight honestly for the first time for all those who have them all this time since '91. Or '90s. on here fair and honest represented. Well, normally, in the election of whom the pervs to whom both of us. Who is punished without positive discrimination? It's not the minority MPs that get punished. It's the rest of us. Paradoxically, but that's the way it is. Who's being punished? What should I list? The IDS is being punished, the HNS is being punished, the SDP is being punished. You don't punish HDZ. Clearly, this law corrects certain injustices, and that is probably important, according to national minorities. They will no longer simply be counted as it has always seemed until now, where they should openly declare themselves when they vote. It removes fear in some way. Who, before I told you, that law might not fit. The law may not match HDZ, but HDZ suggests it. If the opposition knocks him down, it's dilettantism for me, it's a political blindness. HDZ I said should change, but these solutions I dare say surpasses us in opposition. That's funny, but that's actually the way it is. I said before that Croatia is one of the few countries that has the opportunity to directly elect minority representatives. This constitutional law I have previously said a big step for one small and divided Croatia. If we go back 15, 20 years ago, it is clear that Croatia was a victim of aggression, but not many minorities were petrified, which was often experienced by a remethyl factor and did not live everywhere as people lived in Istria. I said before that the elections for the Italian community or him and those, three and four days ago in Istria came out and voted 56% of the members enrolled, which is almost incredible for Croatian opportunities. Almost incredible. Therefore, I want to believe that this constitutional law is a political step, I dare say a civilizational, almost human step that corresponds to the opposition parties at this very moment. Finally, I can see they're picking up my tiles on this side. So why didn't this solution be adopted by the third-month administration? That's the point. Well, the minorities were looking for a solution like that, the IDS was looking for, before I heard the HNS was looking for it. We fought for these solutions with statutes, practice, because Istra gentlemen did not leave, he was a Croat, a Serb, a Slovenian, an Italian, or I don't know who. However, I like to say that if someone was a real minority, then we Istrians were a minority in this country, without almost any participation in the executive authority of the Republic of Croatia. And I will personally vote for this constitutional law, if it is not voted on, I will not vote for the Constitution that I was going to raise my hand for, and let it be also a political message. And it wasn't Mr. Lesar before you told Damir Cain never courted anyone, especially in this assembly. Be with the minorities in '91, '92, '93, '94. When some trade unionists took a pact with the then executive authority was a matter of reason, honest, almost brave, but always at least my position was at least honest. And I believed that when it comes to minorities, the relationship in Croatia is changing today, and today the opposition to this constitutional law will not vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54825	Thank you very much. But we have five corrections. First it's Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54826	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Cain said it was funny or not true that HDZ would change the architecture of the state. This is not funny and it is not false, because if you look at the proposal for these amendments and the addition of constitutional law, what is done in Article 4(8), is exactly that. And we were not talking about any voting rights, and the additional right to vote why we and I personally advocated much before everyone else, but rather about one specific case in one territory giving legal personality to the common council of municipalities, for the purpose of protecting as the cultural, educational and similar rights of Serbs in that territory. What about protecting these same Serbs' rights in other parts of Croatia? Why it is necessary on this territory that it has legal personality, which I believe is changing the architecture of the state, and in other parts of Croatia it is protected by other instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54827	Thank you. Correction Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54828	Mr. President. Comrade Cain, you have stated in your statement that positive discrimination or additionally additionally has the right to vote, does not only correspond to Croatian nationalists. And as far as I know and as far as I can see, this constitutional law proposal is in line with national minorities. Therefore, in particular, the Serb national minority and representatives agreed with the motion that they do not have the right to vote and that they have the right to three, at least three MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, don't speak to me in a flat or unnecessary manner, and at the end of the day, which you declare a Croatian nationalist here, and you know there's a difference between nationalism and chauvinism, right? And another thing I wanted to say. You never said "Croatian" here, who said you were Croat, said "Istrana," but "Istrian." Well, I find that very strange. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54829	Thank you. Ms. MP and Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54830	Well, it is an incorrect allegation of Agent Caine who claimed that the opposition would, in its position, compromise the civilization's steps in favour of minorities, which contains this law so that I don't now count them. As far as the SDP is concerned, we have made it very clear, as well as the HNS club, it is only one small segment of that law, which has come into the process and in an urgent, urgent procedure without any agreement and consultation with that opposition, which we, with full right, question that I do not repeat this provision again, have the right to dispute and ask that or to further discuss and agree, or that we have simply made clear that we will be against this law, because we believe that this is our right and our obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54831	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54832	The right, members of national minorities in the elections should not have been determined, the second thing is that the election of the total number of voters enrolled was only 18%. According to the law, they were enrolled in a copy of a special list of voters. Second, an incorrect quote from fellow Cain about the '95 pact. on the Labour Act, I admit that I have made a pact with the Croatian Assembly, it would be good to have this '95 law. Now return to force, and no worker would be unsatisfactory in Croatia anymore. And finally, fellow Cain, even though we think differently, it never occurred to me that because of the different political attitude I call you an idiot and send you to PM like you did to me earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54833	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54834	Dear fellow Caine, you have offended, among other things, your struggle for the rights of the national minorities. I'm not a nationalist, people are people to me no matter what religion, nationality, etc., but you've also told a great lie. Article 4 was not a step into democracy, we called it a special territorial design called SAO Krajina a few years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54835	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, everyone who checked in before the break was given a word and we listened to the various corrections of incorrect allegations. Since the SDP club, and it was particularly obvious that the amendment was submitted by the HNS Representatives Club, and as the president of the HDZ Club asked for a break, I think it is the least we can do to approve the break and continue at the 19 hours session to try to arrange clubs or take a position. All right, all right. [[Intruder: the National Minority Club asked for the same thing.]] All of you who; there isn't that, here we won't look at formalities. Whoever answered on behalf of the clubs will get their word. Thank you very much. I'm asking MPs and MPs to join the assembly, we've already been through 20 minutes recently. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, please take our seats and determine the quorum before voting on amendments and laws. Please, let's get on with it. And I'm also asking to be controlled upstairs. Please engage for quorum let's see. For the time being, 110 MPs and MPs must be more involved, please let's get involved. 134. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and representatives of the HDZ Club have requested a break and some other clubs. So please, Mr. Club President, Mr. Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54837	Mr. President, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues. We have discussed a situation that has stopped our work today in which we should also vote the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, or amendments to the Constitution. One disputed article of paragraph 8 of Article 4 of the proposed Law proposing legal personality to a joint council of municipalities with a list of the territory which belongs there. After discussing and agreeing with all clubs, we decided that we would accept Mrs Vesna Pusic's amendment, the HNS amendment, which casts Article 8 of Article 4 but at the same time proposes to the Croatian Assembly to accept the following conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to settle the issue of status and financing of the joint council of municipalities by 30 July 2010. In this way we resolved the intensities of the request to finance the council of municipalities that exists on paper and we ruled out the possibility of establishing legal personality and I think it is acceptable for all clubs at least that was the case in the preliminary negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54838	Thank you very much. Is there any need for other clubs to come forward? There isn't. Let me then move to the vote on amendments to the final draft of the Constitutional Law on Amendments and amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, it was an emergency procedure for P.Z. Number 569. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and the Club of Representatives of the CNS and HSU, so let's go and Furio Radin's representative also has a proposal for amendments. I ask the Government's representative, Mr. Mlakar's minister, to declare the amendments. First, the amendment to Article 8. Final bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54839	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final bill amending Article 19 of the constitutional law in front of the word "in the Croatian Parliament" adds the words "members of the national minority", and the words "on party lists and minorities or lists proposed by the minority" are added behind the word "general electoral law". The government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54840	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54841	The government also accepts that amendment. But I will say behind the word "in special election units" the words "which cannot be reduced to the rights of national minorities".
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54842	The second amendment has therefore been adopted and becomes an integral part of the final draft law. We are going to the third amendment relating to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54843	The Government accepts the amendment to delete the text in accordance with the possibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54844	Thank you for becoming an integral part of the proposal. The fourth amendment to Article 4 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54845	The government does not accept, or, in part, accept the amendment, we have proposed it to the proposings and it should read instead of "the way work and the financing of coordination is regulated by a special law". The government suggests that "the way work and funding coordination is regulated by law". Therefore, no specific law is adopted to finance the coordination of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54846	Is this amended proposal acceptable?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54847	Roger that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54848	So this amendment has been amended as much in the text as the minister reads it here and agrees with the amendment's proposal. Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. 5. Amendments to Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54849	The 5th amendment is not accepted by the Government with the following explanation. The same meaning of the amendments was also submitted by MP Furio Radin. I'll read it. Article 4 of the new paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: The elected National Council of National Minorities shall act as the coordination of the National Minority Councils. This text is identical in the amendment of the Committee, however, Agent Radin also has paragraph 7. which says: when defined by international contracts, the function of coordinating the national minority may also be carried out by the roof association of the minority. So we're proposing instead of accepting the amendment of the board of directors number five to accept this amendment by Agent Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54850	So...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54851	I accept, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54852	So, the amendment to the committee is withdrawn, and Mr Furi Radin's amendment to paragraphs 6 and 7 is accepted. It becomes an integral part of the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54853	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54854	It becomes an integral part of the constitutional law proposal. And we still have this amendment to Mr Furi Rudin and we have an amendment to the Club of Representatives of the HNS-HSU relating to Article 4 and Is that acceptable? [[/Intruder: Item 8.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54855	Yes, the government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54856	So, this amendment to the HNS Club of Representatives, the government accepts and becomes an integral part of the constitutional law proposal. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54857	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-16-0.u54858	I would like to stress that Article 227 is in line. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require a 2/3 majority of all MPs, so at least 102 votes. I am voting on the final proposal of the Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final proposal for constitutional law was adopted by the majority of votes, 129 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 3 against, together with the amendments adopted. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the HDZ Representatives Club, which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes by 30 July 2010 to settle the issues of status and financing of the Joint Council of the municipalities." Let's please get involved and vote on this proposal for a conclusion. Score. This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 124 votes for, 1 abstention and 3 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue our work, and as I have announced we are starting a session with - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the "Production of Roads II (Croatia)/B", an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 548 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain further? Tomislav Mihotić, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
