ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48679	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The global crisis that erupted in the autumn of 2008 was first affected by financial markets. The wave of crisis was immediately felt by the index and the withdrawal of savings and deposits from banks and investment funds. The CNB is then without hesitation of action countercyclically. It was crucial to prevent the loss of trust in the banking system, prevent the exchange rate crisis and maintain the credibility of monetary policy. Promptly abolished border reserve requirements and followed by a reduction in the reserve rate, a reduction in minimum foreign exchange demand rate, an extended open position and the CNB was active in foreign exchange markets. At the same time, banks have activated their foreign short-term sources. The result was, within a very short period of time, the release of a huge liquidity of around 4 billion euros or almost 8% of gross domestic product, which kept confidence in the system, in the domestic currency, provided the country's external liquidity as well as the possibility of uninterrupted financing of the state budget. Why could we possibly act countercyclically? Simply because the banking system had enough reserves. Over the years, we have warned of the unsustainable growth based on domestic consumption financed by foreign borrowing, and during that period, we have imposed a period of very strong credit growth on banks a series of restrictions that ultimately resulted in the formation of very large reserves of liquidity and large recapitalisations. Thus, the banking system remained stable under these rapidly changed circumstances and was also well prepared for what followed and what was finally happening today. It was therefore prepared for the subsequent gradual growth of the non-refundable part of the asset, which inevitably comes with a decline in economic activity and retaining in such conditions throughout the period considered a satisfactory ratio of capital. The financial system has endured, however, the global crisis has continued to hit and bare the real sector's problems. At the beginning of the year, economic activity practically collapsed. In the first quarter, the negative GDP growth rate was 6.7%, in the second 6.3%. That powerful negative blow came from three sides. First, due to a strong drop in economic activity throughout the environment and in a number of countries with which we have developed external and trade relations, there has been a strong drop in foreign demand. The real product, real GDP on average in the European Union fell by about 5% and the real decline in our exports as components of Croatian GDP was 14.2% in the first and 19.8% in the second quarter. Secondly, personal consumption dropped immediately by 9.9% in the first and 9.4% in the second quarter all compared to the same period last year. Thirdly, after a series of years, negative quarterly investment rates of 12.4 and 12.7% were also recorded in the first and second quarters. According to the GDP calculation method, the decline in gross added value in the first half of 2009 was 4%, so it was something, in fact, one third lower than the drop in GDP because a strong contraction of indirect taxes was recorded in the same period. The rate of change in gross value added was negative in all activities other than agriculture, financial intermediation services and public sector services. In the industry, the decline was 9.4%, in construction, 2.5% and in trade, as much as 15.8%. The impact of spilling unfavourable economic movements on labour market indicators appears, however, with a certain time shift, and the text was increasingly apparent and stronger by approaching the end of this period. At the end of June, around 11% more were unemployed than at the end of June a year earlier. In wages, negative trends were evident with an even greater time shift, in fact, wages paid during the first half of last year and continued to grow at the annual level and given the rise in the prices of nominal wage and employment developments, it can be estimated that the real pay mass in the first part of the year was still not lower than the wage mass in the first part of 2008. This suggests that the sudden decline in consumption was particularly influenced by psychology, the fear of future movements and pessimism, and the effects of wealth due to the decline in the value of assets, and some stagnations of bank loans given to the population, which can also be attributed to pessimism by good work. less proclivity to take credit. In such conditions inflation pressures were relatively weak and there was in fact a decrease in the annual rate of inflation of consumer prices from 2.9% in December to 2.1% in June, which was mainly the result of the base period, as the prices rose by 2.9% in the first six months of last year. Therefore, for the central bank the maintenance of low inflation was not at the heart of the focus, it was not a problem but it was therefore a particular challenge from the outbreak of the crisis until the middle of last year to ensure the external liquidity of the country and the stability of the exchange rate, which was under strong influence and strong pressure not only because of the initial casting of the foreign exchanges and then the difficult external financing but perhaps even more so because of the expectations and speculation of certain entities on the financial market. Moreover, in 2009, business banks entered with a very large surplus of kuna liquidity, making the expectations mentioned and more easily translated into depreciation pressures. Therefore, after reducing the reserve rate from 17% to 14%, which was released 5.9 billion kuna and 350m euros, the CNB increased the foreign exchange share of the reserve in kunas from 50 per cent to 75% in January 2009 and thus withdrew 5.9 billion kuna from the system, but was also released from the further 810m euros. Then, in early February, the Central Bank dropped the minimum necessary rate... The funds from 28.5% to 25% further improved the foreign currency liquidity of banks by around 840m euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This reduction was in line with the planned government debt of domestic banks. However, demand for domestic sector foreign exchanges was also significant, and the international financial market was not closed but heavily available and unfavourable, and therefore the CNB once again lowered the minimum required foreign claims from 25% to 20% and thus released a billion and 250m euros. In addition, the largest allowed open foreign exchange position of banks has been increased from 20 % to 30% of the guaranteed capital in the past. The above changes in the instruments in the first quarter last year gave HNB a cumulative release of 3 billion euros, and it also intervened on the foreign exchange market, thus balancing the foreign exchange supply and demand and eventually halted speculation and weakening of the domestic currency exchange rate. Besides, there was a foreign exchange contract with the banks... And the contract allowed the CNBs to supply a billion and 900 million kuna in stock of 261m euros for the state's lending. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The management of kuna liquidity in the open market, the so-called so-called market of reverse repo auctions, supported foreign exchange operations and was also in the function of stabilising excessive exchange rates fluctuations. As a result of these operations, the primary money, which the Central Bank directly creates, increased by 11% to 55 billion kuna in the first term, while gross international reserves practically returned to levels from the end of 2008. And this shows that monetary policy was countercyclical during this period and, in fact, if standard statistics do not support it, it was very expansional and that credit movements were not the result of a reduced liquidity of the banking system. Bank credits to the population decreased slightly during that period, loans to businesses grew modestly, and loans to the state increased by more than 20%. The reduction in the balance of payments in such a situation was normal and expected. The decline in export demand led to a sharp decline in production, a decline in production led to a decline in imports, in particular imports of equipment and re-comparation, and additionally affected the decline in domestic demand. Expressed in euros, imports of goods decreased by more than 27% and exports by 18.7%. The lack of trade in goods decreased by more than a third. The total current balance of payments from the same period in 2008 decreased by as much as 38% in the first half. At the same time, foreign debt has increased significantly despite the much worse conditions on the global financial market, however significantly less than in earlier periods and in the same period in 2008 it increased by around 1.5 billion or 3.7%. As is said, the escalation of the financial crisis has been welcomed by the banks with high reserves, along with those CNB measures and the increase in the insured part of the savings has been preserved their stability. However, bank operations during the entire first half of the year have seen difficulties in the collection of part of the claims made, as well as the rise in poor placements resulting in significantly lower profits than in the same period in 2008, especially due to increased reservations. But it also increased the number of banks that were doing business with their losses. The share of bad loans rose from 4.9% in December 2008 to 6% at the end of June 2009, and the number of banks that recorded losses increased from 7 to 10. However, the capital adequate rate on average has actually increased to 15.9%, which is really significantly above the legal minimum, thanks to the increase in capital from the basis for State profits, slightly less recapitalisation and restructuring of assets, with a strong growth in the government's share of non-risk in the total assets, thus raising the calculation of capital adequateness. This is a very short recapitulation of what happened in the first part of last year. The central bank therefore responded immediately to our conditions by means of real large assets and liquidity and the insolvency of banks is preserved, but their role as financial intermediary is significantly reduced. At the very beginning of the year, there was a sudden decline in economic activity. The fall was not further deepening during the mid-term. The economy continues to stagnate at this lower level, and indicators on the labour market are increasing over time. This problem of ours didn't create a global crisis, it made him naked and potent. It can't be solved by simply encouraging consumption and repatriating recipes from some other economies that have gone into crisis with a completely different macroeconomic situation and which were primarily focused on saving taxpayers' money banks, which we shouldn't, and sometimes by encouraging consumption for domestic production, which we can't under the given circumstances. Only the promotion of consumption in us would lead to the expansion of current balance of payments deficits, would lead to the expansion of budget deficits, further accelerated growth of external debt, as these deficits from somewhere and with something must be covered, to a very certain reduction of ratings in non-investment, speculative rank, and in conditions of still uncertain and expensive access to foreign markets today very nervous financial markets. The problem would escalate again in the very near future at a higher level and with greater and more serious consequences. Let's take a look at what happens in some euro area countries that have grown by a similar unsustainable scenario. In fact, we need to grow savings and reduce the difference between domestic savings and investments and direct investment in what gives rapid export results. Simply, it is now showing how much it is necessary to insist on the model of sustainable growth. With this so far it is over and before us is a period of necessary and long-term delayed strong structural changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48680	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48681	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Vice Governor, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed it at its 49th session held on 10 February 2010 as a parent body for the first half of 2009. In the opening presentation of representatives of the Croatian National Bank, it pointed out, among other things, that all circumstances took place in the business of the Croatian National Bank and conducted monetary policy and focused attention on the spillover of the global economic crisis and on the Croatian market, on the Croatian economy. It was also pointed out that there was a problem with the collection of bank claims, that there was an increase in foreign debt, primarily due to the debt of companies in foreign banks or related companies abroad, but that there was a slight reduction in the central government's liabilities of 69m euros in total debt. In addition, many unfavourable economic movements have been highlighted so that the decline in GDP in the first term was 6.2% in the Republic of Croatia. Compared to the euro area, a little higher because in the same period, there was a slightly more than 4% drop in GDP. The discussion on the board accepted everything, a report by representatives of the Croatian National Bank, but also pointed to several problems in the banking system and the Croatian economy. It was commended to reduce the minimum reserve rate after so much public appeal to begin with the regulatory measure. However, the opinion is also expressed that it is not a well-unified reduction in those reserve rates, but that a selective reduction in the reserve rate is necessary to stimulate production, and to detimise credit ratings in risk-rates especially for speculative purposes on the capital market. According to many on the board, it is unacceptable to reduce the rate of mandatory reserves on credit ratings, for example... the credit or the purchase of shares and business shares of other undertakings in the same way as is reduced for the credit ratings for the production and investment or the completion of existing investments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the Committee is supported by a reduction in the reserve rate. In fact, it is even more urgent to reduce to two percent to produce and stimulate economic growth. But not reducing the minimum reserve rate to non-investment and production-related credits. In addition, the committee's discussion expressed the opinion of more direct supervision in the banking system that it is necessary to monitor as directly as possible the overall activity of the business banks as possible. The report shows that there are 11 banks in direct supervision which account for a certain percentage of the total assets of the total banking system. However, it is pointed out in the discussion on the board that it is not very good when it is said only that the total assets of these banks constitute a certain procedure of the total banking system but would be more desirable if the report saw how much of the total assets of each bank are controlled by direct supervision, not how much the bank's assets make the total assets of the banking system. Also, in the discussion on the board, we looked back on the liquidity of the banking system. The Committee held that it is not acceptable to claim that the insolvency of the banking system has increased. In fact, it was at the end of the year and showed how liquid the banking system is and how much of these assets are in excess. But the banks in this crisis have increased liquidity, and they're reducing credit activity. In the discussion of the Committee, which was also attended by the representatives of Mr Bohaček banka association, which is a member of the board, the opinion was given that the emergence of high passive interest rates which had been in the banking system and in Croatia's economy was absolutely unacceptable. Not only is it unacceptable. It is both a socially and economically harmful phenomenon in the Republic of Croatia and it is a unique position of the board, a unique position of all committee members and external and regular. This was agreed by the representatives of the Banks' Association, so the conclusion of the Committee, or the Committee's thinking, is if it is harmful, and then it should be taken into account that such passive interest rates are no longer maintained. It is thought that the Croatian National Bank should introduce regulatory measures, the reserve rate on all deposits at which business banks give a passive interest rate above 3 and a half percent, and also introduce a selective one. The higher the interest passive rate, the higher the minimum reserve rate. This would eliminate banks from creating themselves additional costs, inciting those who have used this crisis anyway, who have taken over in their hands a huge financial, strong financial leverage, holding tens of billions of kunas earned and earned profits in these difficult times and making an interest rate of 7% on them. That's what banks are competing to pay for, and that's one side effect that needs to end. Also in the discussion on the board is commended that direct supervision of banks in this report is more content and management... reserves rather than in previous reports, but the importance of managing international reserves still calls for a little more attention to how international reserves are managed, under which conditions, in which banks hold deposits and how revenue is made to manage international reserves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposed a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report, a half-yearly report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48682	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48683	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice Governor with assistant, colleagues and colleagues. This report confirms that the Croatian National Bank as the central monetary authority in the state and in the first half of 2009 was at the height of the task, that it has done its basic task well, which is maintaining price stability and has again been confirmed as the strongest factor in maintaining our country's financial security in these times of crisis. Unlike the executive authority, which did not act as a monetary authority, it followed the appropriate fiscal policy measures, but therefore very successfully indemnified us. While the Croatian government was in a phase of persistent denial of the crisis, the Croatian National Bank successfully amortised the first shock wave of the crisis with well-run monetary policy, resulting in significant liquidity reserves in the banking sector. And it was these reserves that were used at the end of 2008 and in early 2009 that directly contributed to making the economic downturn even greater than it is. Of course, the Croatian National Bank cannot fix as much as the Croatian government can corrupt. After denying a crisis that lost too much time, in the second half of 2009. The government has further worsened the state of play in the economy, under alleged anti-recession measures, such as the introduction of a crisis tax on personal incomes and an increase in VAT rates. In fact, the main source of economic growth in our country was domestic demand based on the growth of personal consumption and investment. The introduction of these new taxes and the increase in VAT reduced personal consumption by 17% and the investment 10%. Governments and central banks of some other countries have at the same time adopted encouraging measures of monetary and fiscal policy, aimed primarily at reducing the tax press and strengthening consumption, and these measures have proved to be effective, so that in mid-2009 the first indications of economic recovery began to emerge in the global economy. Unfortunately, our economic crisis is deepening. Currently, gross domestic product declines is more than 6%, the external debt is 43 billion euros, so over 300 billion kuna and is almost equal to gross domestic product. The internal indifference is extremely high, has reached 27 billion kuna, and certainly the most dramatic cumulative indicator of the country's difficult situation is the number of 309 thousand unemployed, unfortunately with a tendency to further increase. However, not everyone in Croatia is equally difficult. By the time the economy and citizens died, the banks were still relatively well. Business banks, we could say, continue to capitalise the Croatian crisis. We read from the first half of 2009 Croatian National Bank's report that business banks achieved an operating profit of 4 billion kuna during that period, representing an increase of almost 11% compared to the same period in 2008. And with this growth, the banking industry is still a very profitable activity despite Croatian banking association's statements that the profitability of banks is falling due to high interest expenditure growth. It is true that banks, like boomerangs, have returned, through the high growth of interest expenditures, to the inflating of passive interest in the overall jag for the committees, or their money, which was quite extensively spoken of by the chairman of the Finance Committee. That is, after Croatia has been a kind of Eldorado for bankers for years, now the high growth in interest expenditure has turned the Croatian banking system, despite still high profits, into one of the least attractive for investment in Europe. But the most important reason for the dissatisfaction of bankers with the financial results is not high interest costs, but they are triple-larged loss reservations. It is primarily due to the expansion of these pre-tax benefits by 14% than it was in the first half of 2008. The smallest decline in profits suffered by large banks, around 10%, with the emphasis being made that large banks make as much as 93% of all banks' total profits. A slightly more pronounced decline was recorded by small banks 27%, and far the largest decline in profits has a group of medium banks, as much as 58%. This big difference in the decline achieved by banks, given their size, has certainly their reasons. In order to reduce the risks of business, banks focused their credit activity on the state as a safer, more desirable client than economic operators and on citizens whose economic crisis made them more pronounced. Thus, during the first half of 2009, loans to state units increased by 49%, while at the same time loans to companies only increased by 0.3%, and loans to the population were even reduced by 2.7%. This also changed the representation of individual sectors in total loans. The state's representation increased to 12.7% of total loans. The share of credits to companies has fallen to the lowest level so far from 37.3% while the share of loans to the given population has dropped from 49.7 to 47.2%. The most important role in crediting the state has been played by large banks and therefore they have suffered the smallest drop in profits. A group of small banks is primarily focused on the lending of companies while medium-sized banks that have suffered the biggest drop get most of their loans place the population. So large banks chose the state, and small and medium-sized banks remained more risky customers, the economy and Croatian citizens. By introducing a new income tax and increasing VAT, the state has taken care of itself, and the economy and citizens must obviously manage themselves. Unlike Croatia, other countries have been speculating exactly the fact that they live on the economy and that they exist for the sake of their citizens have been trying to help both the economy and the citizens. In these countries and banks, they followed the example of the state, and they also reduced both the price of loans or made it easier to repay credit, especially for citizens who lost their jobs without constant income. The SDP club, too, has also proposed a series of legislative proposals aimed at redistributing the economy and preserving the endangered standard of Croatian citizens. Part of those measures, unfortunately, has not yet been discussed in the parliamentary procedure, and the one who did know how it ended. So, in order, all the legal proposals were rejected. To conclude the CNB was literally a life-saving belt in this recent situation for the Croatian economy, the government's millstone around its neck. The SDP club will support the CNB report for the first half of 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48684	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48685	Thank you very much. counterpart Jelas said the CNB has achieved its monetary policy goal unlike the government that has failed to achieve the goals of fiscal policy and that the CNB has saved the banking system. The main objectives of economic policy, and this is not true, are achieving a high employment rate, high economic growth rates, monetary balance, economic liquidity, and is only a means of maintaining the stability of the price of money. Maintaining the stability of the price of money is a means of achieving all these goals, and given our situation in the country, and economic policy is indivisible cannot be talked about the success of one policy and the failure of another policy. It cannot be talked about the success of the banking system and about the failure of the real sector. The economic system is unique. And it can also be ignored that the banking system saved the government by increasing the security of savings. Had it not been for that measure of the banking system in Croatia today, there would have been no. The secured savings increased 80%, and the number of monetary balances shows that savings have increased, and investments have fallen. So much for monetary balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48686	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48687	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Governor of the Croatian National Bank, Mr. Representatives. You see what surprised me most in this half-year 2009 report is one piece on page 40, and it says: "The interest rate of business banks", and then it is said that "the interest rate on short-term loans to non-currency companies so increased from 8.98% in December 2008 to 10.25% in March, while in June 2009, the Vagana interest rate on short-term population including artisans without the currency clause showed the usual fluctuation," imagine the term "it increased by 12.33% in December 2008 to 12.55% in March 2009 to another 0.1 percentage point to 12.61%." And then it is further said that "a similar rate of interest on long-term loans to foreign companies with a currency clause grew from 6.92% in December 2009 to 7.37% in March 2009, and then rose to 7.85% in June. Thus, during the second quarter, the rate followed a general trend in the growth of interest rates activity that then reached its multi-annual peak. The interest rate on long-term loans to the approved population continued to grow and in June was 8.36% versus 8.25% in March and 7.89%, respectively, at the end of the previous year." Well, there's a quote from this year's report from the CNB. If that's the case, and apparently that's the case, then I'm asking myself a question, so who can do something else under such conditions in the Republic of Croatia? If that's the case, then why are you even surprised at the total collapse of the Croatian economy? Mr. Maric spoke of passive interest in Germany 2.5%. Then why should we be surprised that industrial production has halved in half, which is less than pre-war? Or in 2009 even 9.4% less than 2008. What wonders is that the store recorded a 15.8% drop or, be careful, I couldn't imagine it would contain this report, let me quote one more piece of data to you. 18. said Bruto added value of the area of trade activity under the influence of a strong drop in household consumption in the first half of 2009 had a negative rate of 15.8%." But well, that's less important now, then it's about hoteling and then it's said, "The fall in additional value in this area of activity, so hotels are probably affected by the reduced signs of companies for the cost of representation, and reduced consumption of the population related to catering services, etc." If this is noticed by the Croatian National Bank that in this country even less eat, drink less, only more smoke in this country, then we are all really screwed. Equally or how to say clearly it's easy to determine this state, we get here in this report hundreds of thousands of numbers, it's easy to specify the data from this report, there's always a question of what to do, and there's no way out unfortunately from today to tomorrow. It takes time, it needs optimism, it needs to stimulate investment, consumption, production, employment, return credit, it takes time, clearly all of what I'm saying, are more or less phrases, we don't know how to get out of the crisis, it should be admitted. And you know what the biggest problem is today, I dare say, is neither indifference nor debt internal, external, no job. There's just no job, that's the point. I'm reading today in the paper that a higher tax avoidance rate is already approaching 1.8 billion kuna. Be assured, there is no entrepreneur who has earned everything by his work, who has pawned all his grandfather's money so as not to pay taxes, but simply in times and circumstances like this, there is simply no possibility. The government, here's what happened yesterday, goes with those 200 million kuna loans, 300 million kuna banks, at a rate of 5 to 5.5%. This is positively clear, who will get it, not gro, but 20% of what kind of guarantee fund is provided for the settlement of existing loans and the rest of it will be able to be directed towards the payment of liabilities to the state. We're tracking 27 billion kuna data in one year, and it's going to jump to 8.7 billion kuna, which generates unemployment on today from 18%, and probably by the beginning of the season, it might jump to 20%. All logically demand more from the budget of the state, city, county, on the other hand, these budgets are required to be as logical as possible, but again the question is how, if 87% of the budget is set when it's only for the health system to be provided as it is, I won't say good or ideal or bad, 28 billion kuna, and we're making 19.8 billion kuna contributions, or if we need 35.2 billion kuna to pay our pensions, and we're making 19.8 billion kuna out of contributions. Who will say in this country that you need less hospitals, less schools, less pensions, less salaries, etc. And then who's to blame for this situation in this country? So everyone, hardly that anyone, everyone and the banks and the Croatian National Bank and the Government, and local administration and self-government and employers etc. Yesterday I read, I couldn't believe one, and I wasn't surprised to be honest, one piece of information about 22 new ships entering the Croatian fleet in the coming years and that's great. Of the 22 ships 14 are built abroad mainly in China and South Korea and only 8 on domestic flights, which will say that during that period 2010, 2011, 2012. Croatian ship builders in China and South Korea must extract or export about 600 million dollars from the country, at least 600 million dollars. It's clear against the very politics of isolationism, but at this time perhaps those who got everything through conversion and privatisation could show little more patriotism. So the time is such that in these jobs it should show little patriotism because in this way the economy in our neighborhood works, but that the opportunities are probably as serious as they may never say before, and the fact that profit after taxing the Croatian banks in the first 6 months of 2009 compared to 2008, so those banks dropped profits by 14.3% or 2008 for 6 months was 2 billion 750 million kuna for business banks, and 2009. 2 billion 357 million kuna or that 14.3% less. What worries is, another figure on the 78th and 79th in the interest income structure of the credit sector observed by the institutional sector was the largest number of incomes and continued to refer to the population 51.4%, but compared to the end of the first half of 2008, that share was reduced by 3.1% at the rate of interest rates in the interest incomes followed the revenues from companies 36.2%, whose share was also reduced by 0.3%, and 1.5% respectively, to 2.3%. When I'm following this data and I'm saying it extremely non-cynic but I could say it's not good now, it's not good that our banks in Croatia are not doing well, although compared to all other legal entities probably operate incomparably more successfully. If our business banks are also in trouble, we also read about the data on the dismissal of employees, etc., then let them and everyone in the government and the Assembly imagine that it is only ordinary citizens who survive on average wages and that these are small first of all employers, not those large tycoons who participated in the conversion. I would even dare say that at this point it is harder for these small employers than even employees who work with them if for nothing then because of the fact that they “response all their property. ” What do we do? Here's what Mr. Rohatin's deficit says is going to be around 12 billion kuna this year, and due to the structure of the maturity of the payout and the funding of the deficits, it's going to take a government debt of at least 40 billion kuna. Of course that's not all. When we look at foreign obligations in this year's state, plus banks, plus companies to outside or foreign partners need to pay more than 11, 12 billion euros back. But worse, and I didn't happen to mention that shipbuilding that could be a time bomb, which is to be activated by what guarantees. I hope not. But I'm reading from the other side today, how the workers on May 3rd didn't get paid and how for today or tomorrow they're announcing a strike because the government didn't provide them with 250 million dollar guarantees. Clearly, when it comes to shipbuilding, do not touch the Oil when it comes to conversion and privatisation. Let me have the same gentlemen as you to try to quote two paragraphs from Mr. Rohatinski's "Banke" monthbook. He says, "The drop in deposit money and money mass in 2009 does not mean that monetary policy was restrictive, it was rather as expansional as it was meant to be in the conditions of negative external shock, and the drop in monetary weights of 17% was primarily a reflection of the depth of the crisis in the real sector," etc., etc. Just so we don't have a national economy bankruptcy. I was still saying in 2008 maybe the first one that the 2009 crisis in the country would be painful, but that we would experience the bottom before the 2010 season. But if we don't leave now in 2011 it'll probably be even harder. Turned country clearly is not possible from today until tomorrow, takes time. We should probably also decentralise Croatia and transfer part of the responsibility to lower entities, but we should also want something, as we have driven 5.6 billion euros of foreign investment from 2000 to today. We wanted nothing, no one could do anything or make anything in Croatia, etc. It's not working anymore. Today we are in a situation where there is no one to invest in Croatia, which will say that tomorrow we will sell ourselves cheaper. We must begin to rely in the economy not only on large tycoons, but also on those who have 10, 20, 50 workers, craftsmen, peasants, who live off their work, who know what life means in these circumstances. They should be taken by advisory teams to say they're dealing with problems under these circumstances. The big ones also have problems, without them, they don't go. But these little ones I assure you have problems even squared. If unemployment exceeds 310 thousand in the 1st month, by the end of the 5th month there will be 350 thousand. Foreign debt in 5 years will jump to 60 billion euros. And it's about time we split up. And as for this report, the Croatian National Bank should accept it, because at this point perhaps the citizens' greatest trust but also the people of politics somehow have towards the governor and the Croatian National Bank itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48688	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to one of our plans, we'd be discussing today except for this item on the agenda of the State Audit report, and then we'd skip two points because we don't have the conditions for discussion. This Law on textbooks and the Croatian Red Cross and then we would move to the 10th and 11th points, the impelations of the Government one and the other. So that would be the plan today if we were able to do it or if there was enough time. And, of course, we can't say for sure because we don't know how many MPs and MPs will report in these discussions. Mrs. Ingrid, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48689	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think it's very thoughtful of the interpretations we've already set up to discuss them at night. So, if you're up to these two interpretations that we've proposed a long time ago, which are included in the agenda a long time ago, that have been moving and moving around these points, that... that we've reported that we're going to skip these two points, and we're going to start with the interpretations just so that the debate on them takes place beyond the knowledge of the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48690	Okay, that's your opinion. However, two points of the agenda do not have conditions. Otherwise, I don't skip as you know, and you can't move it on me so I can skip the agenda points now. If it ever went on the agenda and announced the agenda points, then it is in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament. That's what I dare say, since I've been here six terms in Parliament. So if we had the conditions to discuss it, then we wouldn't have skipped any agenda points. At this point, the agenda comes when they come to order, not when someone likes whether they are very important or less important. Therefore, we go to these agenda points can come in the course of the day unless there are 30 reported for discussion. And how will you predict when some item of the agenda ends, when, for example, a point of two appears, and for some 30 MPs and MPs. Who is this psychic who can predict when a single point will come to the agenda during the day. Therefore, I cannot accept any insinuations or any such assumptions that I would like to show that a deliberate point of the agenda is directed at one or another time during the day. So we're going, if we discuss these two first points by one hour, then we're going to continue with these agenda points at one hour. So there's no reason to be in that sense because then anyone could say this is my point of the agenda very important and don't ask that it be discussed in the evening. So it's going in one order, and there's no intention here, at least as far as I'm concerned, that when we propose the agenda, it's trying to go in order and not skip anything. If, for example, the conditions for discussing these two points of the agenda are met, this means that the committees give their opinions, or the Government, we will classify them. There's no problem. So let me get on with it, then. It is up to the HDZ Club and Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48691	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear Vice Governor, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Due to the dynamics of changes in the macroeconomic environment and the increasingly pronounced consequences of the global economic crisis, the debate on this half-yearly report is losing a little to currentity. Already today, quite other circumstances are significantly different from those mentioned in this half-yearly report and for the first half of 2009. It is evident that on 30 June 2009, the decline in GDP in the euro zone was 4.8%, that the decline in GDP in the United States was 3.6%, in Japan 7.4, in Croatia 6.5 and today or at the end of 2009, already significantly different indicators. There's already signs and recovery somewhere, and there's been a deepening crisis. Annual inflation in June was 2.1% and unemployment was 247,000. Here, six months later unemployment grew significantly, over 300 thousand unemployed. This report mentions the liquidity of the banking system and already at the end of the year the official banking system had... The liquidity of 4 billion kuna and 1 billion euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Foreign debt increased by 1.5 billion euros in the first six months, in the second half even more but significantly less than in the same period in 2008 and the central debt of the state decreased by 68m euros. What is important is the highlights that have occurred on the financial and banking market, which are not welcome for the economy, especially for the economy under recession conditions. Each economic textbook contains a sentence in at least one place that in inflation conditions the interest rate is growing and under recession conditions the interest rate is falling. That's what economic textbooks say. What is happening in Croatia that is contrary to economic legality that the interest rate in recession conditions is growing? We'll try to answer those questions. In my opinion, one of the best economists of all time John Maynard Keynes considered measures to increase unemployment and how to strike a monetary balance between savings and investments and said that by offering money is the most effective measure, the most effective measure of how to increase employment and how to establish that balance. What happens on the Croatian banking market, in the financial market, that this measure does not bring expected and desirable results? I just said there was a debate on the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Data that indicated that during this period the savings of citizens increased 40%, secured savings of 80%, and total credit placements dropped 1.2%. Obviously, in these most difficult times for the Croatian economy, banks are calculating, speculating, and I would dare say very often abuse my privileged position. Banks, business banks everywhere in the world, throughout the economic life of the world, should be the service of the economy. However, banks in Croatia did not place funds primarily because they had ways to compensate for potential income deficits and these deficits were compensated by increasing interest rates to already approved loans. By introducing new fees, by introducing new fees on already open accounts and by already approved loans. That it thus confirms that the total interest income with reduced credit activity increased from 14 billion 888 million kuna in 2006 to 18 billion 247 million in 2007, and even to 21 billion and 755 million kuna in 2008 and per year's total interest income increased from 18 to 22%. The truth is that the total interest expenditures have also increased from 7 billion to 11 billion. But for what? First of all, because of the decision of these banks, they were consciously going to increase passive interest rates on deposits held by citizens, companies with them, so they started competing, publishing ads, and we see that they do not stop advertising, that they offer 7 or more percent of the deposit interest. I would just ask all of us together and we are often abroad when it is a German bank, for example a German bank or an Austrian public television bank announced an ad that whoever brings a savings deposit a million, 2 or 5, or 100 million euros will get interest 5, 6, 7 or 8%. It's a passive interest rate commercial that's leveled with broad-consumption commercials. Well, an offer for money isn't a gentleman's demand for ice cream. We can't even these two things up, and that's what needs to end. Total revenues from commissions and fees, and I often said here that banks took advantage of this situation and introduced 13 different types of fees. With revenue of 3 billion and 600 million kuna, only from fee fees increased their income to 4 billion and 343 million kuna. Billion kuna only increased revenue at the expense of newly introduced fees and commissions. So why would they approve of new loans, put themselves at risk when they have a background? Yesterday I received information that the Split Bank, I will mention the name of several companies once, increased the interest 2.5% in one day. It's something alarming, it should react to such phenomena. But that's why when Zagrebačka banka lowers someone's 0.5% interest rate then it's on the cover of a daily list as it reduced 0.5%, and as it previously raised 3.4% we couldn't read anywhere. But that's why every day, even in the diary, we can watch "90 seconds" as the Zagreb bank operates and how for a million and 50 thousand bills only increased fees for 5 kunas hundreds of millions of kunas re-earning and income. When it comes to net profit, I think it's speculating hard with the fall to get the business banks. One book and reservation is enough to reduce profits by a billion, two or three. Bank profits have been reduced from 4 billion 694 million to 3 billion and 400, but it should be kept in mind that only reservation is 3 billion and 400 million kuna. What happens when those reservations are charged eventually? And as our experience teaches us then very often we know, we were in situations where the employees who were assessed absolutely chargeable were never charged, and those who were evaluated in the C group as completely non-refundable were later charged. Therefore, we should be very careful to observe these profit and reservation data, because we do not ignore the fact that many and respond in this situation are reduced and booked, and some respond because it may show a weaker business, and when it is charged, it will be more successful and will make a profit. It can be speculated from very narrow spheres of interest. It is therefore good to have the Croatian National Bank directly and more often oversee all business banks, as far as possible, to the maximum extent possible. Because unfortunately, the unpleasant experience has taught us not to trust the full reports of business banks. We should only trust fully the reports supported by the direct supervision of the Croatian National Bank. That is why, in these reports too, I hope that this will be covered in the annual report, which is a more detailed demonstration of the direct supervision of all business banks, which business banks and how active are covered by direct supervision. We also believe that the report will also cover how much business banks have respected decisions on the prescribed maintenance of the liquidity rate and the allocation of the reserve rate. We know that banks don't really stick to it very often. We think that or the report should contain such data. Also, given the increasing frequency of mentioning so-called. The loan margin, I think, should also report on such loans as are commercial banks in these difficult times gave such a risky placement to, under which conditions, with what guarantees, that would endanger the banking system and the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia, so that individuals would meet. According to my humble judgment, it's about 650 million kuna, but we'd love to read it. I already spoke of passive interest rates as the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance and Budget. It is an absolutely social and economically undesirable phenomenon, it is harmful and can only be affected by the newly introduced regulatory measure of the Croatian National Bank and it must not be expected to do so anymore. It is unacceptable for someone who has made billions of kuna profits to now receive a 7% interest and someone to pay for the production of a loan to complete the interest rate of 11, 12 or 13%. A selective approach is also needed at minimum reserves rates, but also in credit ratings. Why lend, invest and buy shares under the same conditions. That doesn't really matter under these conditions. When it comes to whether one policy is successful or not, unfortunately the economic situation in Croatia is not brighter for us. Economic policy is unique, the economic system is a whole, it makes it both a real and banking system and a fiscal and monetary policy and cannot be talked about successfully one part of the sector and the failure of another part of the sector. Both for the end and for the combination of fiscal and monetary policies, for its harmony, for its coordination. We're only known to have five notes, but their variation is so much that we can't even hear them all. It's only known to be five basic colors, but their variation is so much that it's impossible to see them all. There are five basic tastes, and there are so many combinations of them that we can never taste them all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48692	Lock it down, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48693	And only two macroeconomic policies, fiscal and monetary, and it's so much their combinations that it's wrong to consider only one combination right,... effective and effective for each macroeconomic environment and for the recession in which we are located. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48694	Thank you. HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48695	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Vice Governor, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the Croatian National Bank Report for the first half of 2009 and the fact that we discuss business every year, the Croatian National Bank Report twice a year – first for the first half and then for the whole year. In other words, every year on two occasions we potentiate all positive activities, positive actions, positive actions of the Croatian National Bank. But at the same time every year, twice a year, we make remarks on certain measures. We mention it twice a year, and we especially stress the viability of the way business and the functioning of business banks. 90% of the banking system is owned by foreign owners and surely these owners have a completely different policy than we expect, rather than our economy is expecting it. And in this segment definitely and finally we all agree that the role and function of the Croatian National Bank is extremely important, extremely important, and I repeat twice a year, we point out. What, though, is the consequence of all this? We do not want to enter into the work and I do not think there is a need at this time to emphasise the importance, in his final part on behalf of the HDZ Club, my colleague said very nicely the importance and importance of functioning and harmony between fiscal and monetary authorities. And the fact is that at the time of this global economic, primarily financial crisis, precisely because of speculation. And there's certainly speculation in our banking system, and there's speculation. The fact is that the Croatian National Bank played a very important role in retaining stability. And congratulations and governors, vice governors, everyone in the Croatian National Bank. However, the situation in the economy, the possibility of creating a new value, the number of employees is a final reflection or the number of unemployed are a final reflection of success and monetary and fiscal policy. And I think in the context not only of last year 2009. In particular, here we are discussing the Report of the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2009 not only in the context of 2008 but in the context of all years, we should look at the success of monetary and fiscal policies, which is reflected in the number of employees or rather in the number of unemployed at the height and size of the newly created value, etc. etc. Therefore, I think that one responsibility, first of all, in showing the reality of the success of monetary and fiscal policy, I think is essential, that it is necessary and that in this context should also look at the success of the Croatian National Bank at a given time, but at the same time at the same time at the time at which we are talking about fiscal policy and at that moment and at all those times so far. My debate on this Report, Report for the first half of 2009 with praise for the very quality of the report, which is always standard, quality supported with various figures. But I fully join the position and thinking of my colleague Marić that, with the annual report, we expect far more accurate information that the Croatian National Bank certainly has. Because if there is no then something is wrong with the system, which reports could show whether our business banks are really speculating with their profits achieved or whether it is the reality of their business on our market. That the high debt of the Croatian economy, and it is known to all of us that the financial expenditures that the Croatian economy has are one significant share in the total expenditures of the Croatian economy and that they create an extremely large economy, in fact they take, rather, taking an excessive part of the newly created value almost as a whole. But unfortunately lately and more than newly created value, it's known. And it is also known from these reports that according to the Croatian National Bank, the average interest rate of Croatian business banks in March 2009 was 10.25%, and it is also known that this is more than in most countries where monetary policy in the function of supporting the maintenance and development of the national economy, that it is a significantly higher amount, that the average interest rate when we talk about our system, that the average interest rate in the euro zone in March 2009 was 1.64, in the European Community 1.95, in the Czech Republic 2.49, UK 1.83, Poland 4.3, Japan 0.62. That's familiar. And it is also known that foreign banks according to data available that these foreign banks continued to lower interest rates by carefully observing developments in their economies, so in May these interest rates were in the euro zone 1.28, Great Britain 1.53, Japan 0.53. And by comparing interest rates in Croatian business banks, it can be seen that the average interest rate in Croatian business banks was 5.2 times higher than in the European Community or even 16 and a half times higher than in Japanese business banks. And I will not say anything new, it is known to everyone and not today, not since yesterday but years that the prices of Croatian products services are getting smaller or could be said at this point almost uncompetitive on the world market, among other things, because of excessive expenditure based on the cost of financing, the cost of financing resulting from the business policy of our business, our banks. Therefore, given the potential of the Croatian economy, particular responsibilities towards this interest rate economy should be lower. On the other hand, given the extreme high... business banks, reducing interest rates would not cause business with loss in Croatian business banks, and responsibility especially from the position of social responsibility would be much stronger and more acceptable when we talk about business banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about credit policy, the fact and the data say that almost all business banks, except for the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, have deliberately ignored lending investments in Croatian production, production activity, I repeat on purpose, because the data on this point, something about it, and my colleague Maric was saying. Despite the fact that the size of the total sources of funding was sufficient to finance the investment, but the excessive share of the placements focused on the consumption of citizens and thus contributed among other things to a major backlog in the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Banks directed about 20% of the domestic savings available to finance investments and from 33 to slightly more than 50% of the foreign currency sources. The remaining financial development potential has been allocated to the population for consumption and, of course, to the state for general consumption. In the banking system, therefore, there was an available resource of the total savings which the investment demand of the economy could absorb to a much higher degree, but was engaged for a whole other purpose, and this was proof that the business policy of banks was contrary above all to the needs, and thus also to the interests of not only development but also to the life of the Croatian economy and this policy was one of the strong generators of the growth of personal consumption and unemployment. And in this sense there are a whole series of arguments in creating a complete picture and a complete mosaic for the business of the Croatian economy, for very poor social responsibility in the business of Croatian business banks, present to our area. And now we're coming up with one very important thing, and that's a question, and it's already said something in that sense, and there's also been a debate on the Committee on Finance, it's a matter of control, regulation, regulation of that market. In the club of the Croatian People's Party, we also believe that this is the key role of the Croatian National Bank, in addition to that of the basic function, which is the creator of monetary policy that through its supervisory function, and especially as a regulator in preventing, above all, the speculative business of the banking sector and reducing possible damage to the Croatian economy as a result of the banking sector's business. That the banking sector abuses its position, its position is clear to all, nothing new, generally known thing and we at the Croatian People's Party club in this segment underline the importance, role and responsibility of the Croatian National Bank in terms of creation and balance on the one hand, on the other hand and the conditions that the economy in all moments and in gold years, in those popularly spoken fat years, and those other years, for years of crisis to have the possibility of sustaining, developing and creating a new value. I just want to mention one thing in my opinion, in our opinion at the Croatian People's Party club is extremely important to highlight, and this is a question of height... Croatian National Banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact that it has increased, the fact that it is far above the usual in our environment and the fact that it has a significant impact on the formation of the ultimate interest of the core banking sector, at the time of recession and the global crisis of the central bank in our environment have significantly reduced... Steps, so when we talk about federal reserves that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rate from 0 to 0,25, European Central Bank from 1 to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , Bank of England 0.5, Japan Central Bank 0,1, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time the Croatian National Bank applies... A rate of 9%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And since I'm running out of time, I want to say one more fact, which is that, in the core federal reserve tasks, one of the facts that is defined there is that federal reserves have to take full-time measures in the United States. And now it's my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48696	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48697	And now my question is precisely that direction, ensuring full employment of the Croatian economy and the role of the Croatian National Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48698	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48699	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Vice Governor, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I would like to point out that when this is an important topic on the agenda, I would like to once see the governor in the assembly submit a report, that is to say, those strong messages he's been sending over the media for the past year and a half. I think this is a really relevant place to send a strong message, and the message is about like this, what he's saying is that the policy set needs to be economically planned to get the country out of recession and that it's not slow enough to act with certain laws to solve the problem. We are witnessing these days that we have proposals for the first concrete measures the government has put forward a year and a half after the recession has taken hold, but what we must mention will not extract the Croatian economy and these measures will not reverse the negative trends in which Croatia is economical. So, the message should be gentlemen to adopt concrete economic policies that will make a comprehensive start for the Croatian economy, to get us out of this fungi where we are and in some way offer the perspective of Croatian citizens. What's equally impossible is to discuss the report for the first six months, and the whole year is up and then we have to say what the results of the current year are, not these first six months. And the results are more than fatal for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian economy. We are talking about a GDP decline of approximately 6.5% and when we do, someone mentioned in the debate, with EU countries that is about 2% more than in EU countries, and we must not forget that their economies are highly developed and that some low-developed countries in the EU, such as Poland, have even seen economic growth in the past year. Croatia will achieve an economic downturn of 6.5%. Why is that? There are three basic reasons for me. The first reason is of course the drop in exports, and there they can accept that the reason for the recession in the world is, of course, that exports fall, that we have no place to sell their products and services. But the other 2, much more important reasons, are primarily the fall in consumer optimism, i.e. the decline in consumption in Croatia, which was 15% last year, and this government is directly responsible for it. She passed laws that took 2 billion kunas from Croatian citizens out of her pocket and instead of passing anti-recession laws she passed pro-recession laws that further deepened the state of recession in Croatia. This government is responsible for dropping spending last year by 15% in Croatia. The other thing, which is also very, means one of the important reasons why there has been an economic downturn is, a fall in business optimism. First of all, the lack of measures, the lack of assistance for the economy has led to the fact that the business part of Croatia, the economy, simply comes into trouble. In some ways, the state generates indifference in the system, there are no concrete measures to help maintain jobs in these difficult years. And normally, on the other hand, business optimism, or there was no possibility of a level, I would say, of economic growth in Croatia being maintained. What is important is also to mention, the measures we are witnessing today and these days in Croatia began to be brought to EU countries a year and a half ago. A year and a half ago, like Slovenia, Germany took similar measures. Maybe not technically identical, but not the way the money was supplied wasn't identical. We find money within Croatia, let's say Slovenia was in debt and the deficit was directed to help the economy. But they did it a year and a half ago and their results are positive. Their economy has already begun to recover and they are currently seeking to resolve the deficit, namely how these measures are already slowly being kicked out of practice in their country. The work is already under way, so the programme was 5 billion euros in aid to the Slovenian economy, and they already consumed more than 60% of that amount. So what others have been using for a year and a half we've just started to apply today. What must also be said that anyone who would consider how to help the Croatian economy would look at whether the biggest drop, or where do the biggest revenues come from? And the fact is that for the fall of Croatia's GDP under quotes is the most responsible drop in consumption, especially in tourism where this is expressed by more than 15%, i.e. a decline in construction. So, what have we done to protect Croatian tourism? That he maintained the revenues he had a year earlier, not that he had 15% less income, or even a billion and 200 million euros at the annual level. Which represents about half of the total GDP drop that will happen last year. We did it to bring it back, I'll say, the pro-recession laws, increased VAT, took the citizens' money through the crisis tax, and, behold, the most significant drop in tourism was by our tourists, by domestic tourists. 10% of our citizens' arrivals last year were tourism. 10% of Croatian citizens because the government took that money, brought, again I say, pro-recession policy, could go and spend on tourism. And that's why this decline in tourism is so great. On the other hand, the fall in construction, one would look at it and say, "that we have a large part of GDP in construction" was 10%. And only now after a year and a half again, a year and a seven months do we have some proposals for measures that are, I would say, thrown like this over the finger and still getting better, to help sell this large amount of unsold housing in construction. So, unfortunately, in Croatia, we have no systematic policy, we have no idea how to get Croatia out of this fungi. I don't see that idea in this government. There is no idea how to help Croatia in recession. There are controversial laws that first, deepen the crisis and say not only the opposition but also the experts. That's what the prime minister's advisors say.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48700	Please return to the half-year Report of the Croatian National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48701	The topic is the Report of the Croatian National Bank, and you cannot talk about the report unless you determine why the data from the reports are such. So it's all connected. Even the prime minister's advisors say these laws led to recession, and normally, then in the report that the CNB has been following us here, Mr. Vice President, we can't have any better data. What Croatia needs, as the CNB report next year would not be as it is this year and in the first 6 months of last year, is a dramatic shift in economic policy, structural reforms, a reduction in public spending, but unfortunately this government neither wants nor can work. We returned gentlemen in 2003 with the number of unemployment, 300 thousand people are unemployed, if you continue this year we will return to 2000 when there were 370, 380 thousand people without a job. So you brought Croatia back nine years ago, more people don't work now than it didn't work then. And these are the results that we have to clearly say here, these are the results that are written here in the report, and in some ways we have to warn them. On the other hand, I wish there was a will and there was a direction in which the whole story was moving, but unfortunately there is no such thing. And unfortunately, I'm afraid the next report will be even more devastating than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48702	Thank you very much. One replica and one correction. Correction by Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48703	Dear representative Mr. Maras said the state generates indifference in the system. This is indeed not true because at the end of February 2009, the Government, in a package of anti-recession measures, identified, among other things, the obligation to ensure the liquidity of public enterprises, and thus private sectors, the reduction of payment deadlines for public companies and savings at all levels in these companies, so that the state does not generate system indifference.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48704	Mr. Representative Joseph Leko Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48705	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed representatives of the Croatian National Bank. Well, colleague Maras, I wanted to say something through the Institute of Replications. Unfortunately, according to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian National Bank has no obligation to conduct a harmonised policy between monetary and fiscal authorities. And when we discuss in the Croatian Parliament which only the Croatian National Bank answers, then I would ask the question. In whose interest, therefore, is it in the national interest and which group of citizens of the Croatian National Bank's policies supports for the past 15 years. Is this supporting high capital, for example in the Republic of Croatia and the financial sector or the development and employment of workers by their policies. Secondly, does this policy of the Croatian National Bank, in our opinion, of the representatives of the citizens in the Croatian Parliament, contribute to making a fortune in Croatia without working through the financial sector. Is business in line with morality or is the purpose of business maximising the profits of Croatian banks. IS the business of Croatian banks without systems and principles in the national interest. If we answer these questions then I could give a positive assessment of the business of the Croatian National Bank all 15 years ago, including this Report, but if we have negative answers to these questions then what is the purpose of the bank's positive business and the worker's increasingly on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48706	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48707	Thank you very much, Mr. Leko, your doubt may require a broader debate for which we do not have time for right now, but what matters is that the Croatian National Bank cannot do anything alone. It must have the government's cooperation and must have co-operation with the correct government's economic policy. Unfortunately, these actions have been gone over the past few years, but the CNB always enters as a particular rescuer who intervenes whether with a course, holds it tightly whether now that it releases money so that these crisis funds can be activated. She's just coming along as some kind of savior. Unfortunately, there are some consistent policies by the Croatian government and the CNB could do more.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48708	Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would just like a few more personal reflections on this semi-annual report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2009. But I'll take the chance, first I'll answer Mr. Maras. If we have found that the passive interest rate is the source of major problems in the banking system that causes high interest rates, and that cheap money is the only effective means to raise production, and what should be done by the Government to introduce a selective measure by the Croatian National Bank. Nothing. The Croatian National Bank is the only institution in the country that has full authority and is a completely independent body. And that it is taking measures to encourage employment, which will encourage the economy, which will reduce price levels, is in its hands, only that the disproportionateness between the powers and responsibilities of the Croatian National Bank is the key problem. And Mr. Leko you are wrong, I'm sorry to have to say but the Croatian National Bank is not responding to the Croatian Assembly, it only submits the Report to the Croatian Assembly, which is the difference. The Croatian National Bank has often acted as an observer, most often as a diagnosticist, and when it behaves to bring some concrete measure within its powers to help the employment and growth of the economy, which will prevent banks from doing business like this, I specifically said what measures they were. Only the Croatian National Bank can reduce the passive interest rate and earning those who have already abused the position or made an extra profit. But we don't need the CNB report as a statistical report, we have too much statistics, we have a statistical office we don't need another one. But what we often mention, which is these speculative loans, and there's not a single word in this speculative credit report. Whoever was getting these imagine loans, how much they were, what were the guarantees, where the review was, even the state's attorney couldn't get that information. Why? Because individuals have won for speculation and production and the economy stares and the workers are fired but all we need to care about is one institution that doesn't interest us at all. But the budget is national, the balance of payments is national, economic policy is national. That's it, that's it now and that's it. And that will be when they introduce a supranational euro. All these problems will remain national. And no one can behave supranationally. Direct supervision of the Croatian National Bank is necessary. The data is constantly hidden as to how many assets the commercial banks have covered in direct supervision. And it's not three years old how many banks have you covered with direct surveillance? What banks did not maintain the liquidity rate? What banks didn't make a minimum reserve rate? And there are just no ones in the report. Why is there no more detail on international foreign reserves, about governance? Why does Slovenia make twice as much income as the Croatian National Bank? What banks keep their reserves? How many central banks in Europe, according to their orders, give business banks to hold deposits in Croatian banks? Not even a kuna. And we keep our savings, and even at the bank that we're making so damn sorry for what she was doing, that she has to publicly apologize for how she acted in taking over one of our banks, and we're holding a deposit with her. As far as the report says, it is justified that banks have excuses for increasing interest rates. So it says that it's long-term sources of resources, that it's a lack of long-term resources. Well, that's not true. With 7 billion growth in long-term resources to 11 billion kuna in the Passives. They climbed 2.8 to 3% in total liabilities. So long-term sources of finance for business banks are growing. Short-term sources drop from 7 billion to 200 million, they're actually smaller from 2.4 to 2.2% in those liabilities. There's no justification for any interest increase, yet there's justification for a reduction and let it be a role model. For example, what happens in Spain where the example of a real-estate balloon was. But the bank, and that's their bank... that's the only one left in this crisis, didn't have to be remedied, and it lowers interest rates, gives... periods to everyone for two years, and the one who hasn't paid the claim up to 18 months is considered a first-rate client, because that's the situation. And now it's become more fashionable for us that as soon as someone hasn't charged their claim or the interest war for 30 days, he declares it absolutely uncharging by seeking to distort the image. Who needs speculative loans in Croatia? No one but individuals. Croatian economy doesn't need them. The Croatian National Bank should introduce 50% of the reserve on such loans, so let the banks approve. But then an individual gets 200 million kunas and doesn't come back, because there's one of his own rocks that's worth nothing, but that's why he trades in Montenegro and the rest of the shares. You can't give up everything and we don't have any responsibilities. The moment I said that the Croatian National Bank reacted in time, fewer consequences would be in the Croatian Post Bank. From that moment on, I no longer refer to the advice of the Croatian National Bank. But the fact is that there was no direct surveillance, because if it were direct surveillance in 2005, 2006, the seventh time these credit ratings were happening, today the damage would be less. And there can be no exception from the responsibilities of the Croatian National Bank. Well, that's her job, that's her job. I claim that the Podravka affairs would not have been at all if the Croatian National Bank had reacted to what it had to react. And why is that? So if she had a limit on bank growth 12% a year, and she has information that in one day in one second, one bank grows more than 100%. And it's such a red light that you need to react. The deposit is invested in the Varazdinska Banka, Podravka 290 million kuna and the base capital is lower. The Croatian National Bank had to issue a warrant for the deposit to return. If it had come back to the affair, it wouldn't have been. And there is a lack of direct supervision of the Croatian National Bank. And I know that after speeches like this, there are criticisms in my account. But that makes sense. But if you're only willing to avoid criticism then don't do anything, don't say anything and be nothing. And I don't want to be that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48710	Thank you. Five replicas. First Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48711	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Maric what the government can do to reduce passive interest rates. He can do a lot. I'll give you a few examples. Passive interest rates are high because they are high and interest in general. It wouldn't be worth giving anyone 6% interest without being able to sell the money at 10%. So the government can bring in a nice high interest tax, cut those interest rates, and then there'll be passive interest rates less. On the other hand, it can reduce the demand for money on the market. Last year, the government was betrayed in asking for money from Croatian banks and created a great demand for money and thus raised passive interest rates. So there's a lot of ways. For example, he can. to give in the economy through HBOR billions of kuna, to create more money on the market than it needs. And thus reduce passive interest rates. So there are many activities that the government can take to reduce those rates. Not only does the CNB rule its own actions. But unfortunately, the government didn't do any of that. And that is why I warn that it must be a combination of politics and the CNB but also of governments that have been lagging behind in the recession situation for the past two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48712	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48713	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras, you interpret Nietzshe from the facts. But I understand, because of this you just want to politicize and turn everything on the government. However, this is the topic of the Croatian National Bank and the Croatian National Bank report. It is an independent body and implements monetary policy. The monetary policy includes the banking system and the level of interest rates. The interest rate on deposits or deposits, the bank's passive interest rate is paid not only because of the government but because they already have an existing platform for increasing the costs of those who already have loans, unilaterally changing the clauses, introducing new costs, increasing interest rates and can only do so because of the non-selective policy of the Croatian National Bank's instruments, because in its hands there are instruments that regulate monetary policy and regulate the supply of money. As you say, let the government pass through HABOR and at the same time accuse the government of over-indebted. So Croatia has its own money, deposits, only with reserve management should it know how to regulate this supply of money to achieve monetary balance between savings and investments, and this can only be done by selective measures. So, no one defends but it is necessary to introduce a mandatory reserve rate at a height above 3.5% interest rate on the deposit, at a passive interest rate. And a simple solution. I don't know any economic or rational reason why it's not like that and it just can't be like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48714	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48715	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President. I want to replicate my colleague, Maric, who said, in fact, that there is no excuse to increase interest, but equally everyone behaves as he can. The Croatian National Bank is not a wizard in heaven or on earth, it is independent by law, but the Government is very determined, and it is also proposing the rules that we here in the form of laws are making as will be the behaviour of the Croatian National Bank. And it acts well because it can, or business banks themselves, behave the way they behave. For example here, we have since we proposed a law on increasing interest taxes on housing loans and none of that. Here, it's one of the measures that would prevent banks from acting like that. Here, raise your interest, but then you'll pay double taxes, and we'll see if it pays off to the banks or not. Banks usually have a privileged position in society. Let's just think of the occasion. An ordinary citizen can't charge for the commission, but for banks, it goes expressly through fiduciation. And we'll end the fiduciary because it's something that's alarming, unfair, that injustice is crying out to the sky. For an unpaid war to take away everything that has been paid so far. They didn't have that in ancient Rome either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48716	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48717	Thank you very much. Comrade Antičević, you say the government should introduce a interest tax on housing loans. Well, that would only collect a high interest rate and all the expenses anyway. And there is a simple solution again within the Croatian National Bank that should do this to reduce the minimum reserve rate on housing loans to 2% of the rate in all EU Member States and increase the reserve rate on the margin of loans not even to reduce from 17 to 14, from 14 to 13 and to residential and one-time and universal to all types of loans. I am saying that only the selective policy and selective approach of the Croatian National Bank can result in a reduction of interest rates. And here's a very simple solution. Why is housing loans and investments not a minimum reserve rate of 2%? And even if the minimum reserve level is kept at the same level as the absolute amount, it increases to other loans, but for investment, production and housing loans, it must be 2% if we want good for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48718	Mr. Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48719	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Maric, I do not agree that the report in the Croatian parliament is a "lar powder lar" discussion, it cannot be. Secondly, who forms Croatian monetary policy if not the Croatian National Bank. Does Croatia have any interest in monetary policy? Well, there is, of course. If that is the case and the Croatian National Bank still has scissors and skirts to control all banks and we here express our dissatisfaction with the way Croatian banks operate. Even if we allow it to be an absolute independent monetary policy but the Croatian Parliament cannot say that it is not interested in banks for God's sake. Well, we can't give up the lever and say we're a state and we can't have any effect on the Croatian national banks if they... and that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what this is about. If we cannot through the discussion of the conclusions on the Croatian National Bank when we are discussing the reports then we must find ways to act through the Government through legislation on the business of commercial banks because it is obvious that their only interest for now is to maximise profits and it is still Croatian to say the kuna, it is not about the euro, but about the Croatian kuna, so we are not members of the European Monetary Union and we are not members of the European Union. Well, we can't give up so elegantly, we're not responsible for monetary policy or bank business. Then it really doesn't make sense that the reports of the Croatian National Bank are coming here and that we conclude that everything is fine. So let's conclude what we think is not a good conclusion, even if we act politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48720	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48721	Thank you very much. If we had given up criticism, then we wouldn't be arguing like this. We did not give up the debate on monetary policy, but the CNB Act is clearly defined powers of the CNB. I am personally merely saying that, under my authority, CNB is insufficiently supervised by business banks and that we have expensively paid the price of such behaviour ten years ago and that I would not want such behaviour to be repeated, and here is the case of the Croatian Post Office. That she was supervised and not only by authority but also by jurisdiction and obligation. I argue that the supervision of banks, the supervision sector of banks, is insufficiently efficient and not wide enough, not deep enough for the supervision of business banks and leaves them at their will to do what they do and to change regulatory measures in order to prevent banks from selectively discriminatering against Croatian people, to encourage robbery and suppress production. It's discrimination. If the president of the bank's management can be given to an individual who's really been given these loans, like we still haven't figured out who got the management loans, who's been shared by the Management Credits Bank, so you don't know who's been getting those margin loans. 50 million kuna gets one person a physical margin loan. The president of the administration has not given credit to any production, and that can only change monetary policy. I insist on it, and I will warn that only they can and should do so and that they have effective measures that can change such a situation within 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48722	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48723	Thank you, Vice President. In fact, when we are discussing the Croatian National Bank, then we should actually take into account the two important areas that are within its scope. It's on the one hand price stability, on the other hand surveillance. I'm sure the People's Bank has done everything to make one of these areas extraordinary, so around price stability, a warning of what's waiting for us, so a warning that the crisis is there, that its roots are deep, that it won't be so easy to solve. I agree with my colleague, Maric, that as far as surveillance is concerned, there should be far more work to be done. It's from these experiences of major and small banking crises that we've had in history and these latest, that's the only state-owned bank. However, we cannot amnesty the government because it too had to take certain measures if it did not occur through the Croatian National Bank's policy. Namely, if Croatia is not in the interest of saving but investment then the state and government must lead such a tax policy to detimise savings and stimulate investment. And right through the introduction of interest taxes, interest income taxes, so capital at high interest rates, because who today makes 6.7% of the profits you can get in banks very safely if you put a deposit. So you can't amnesty the Croatian government by introducing such interest and earning revenue in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48724	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48725	Thank you very much. Comrade Zgrebec, I just said that the additional tax under recession conditions is unacceptable. You're just criticizing that there's no need to burden the economy further. Taxes on interest increase costs. I also heard about bank proposals to say cut the premium rate at the State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation. Well, then, what we have is that we have less in the Savings Insurance Fund. And here without any damage and only in the jurisdiction of the Croatian National Bank with the simplest measure to ensure the stability of the banking system, because these are risk-based placements, to isolate the higher rate of mandatory reserves and risk-based placements, and also to save above a certain percentage. And I personally think that the interest on deposits is above 3.5% in these times is unacceptable and that it is easy for these interest rates if the banks want to give more then they are set aside in a mandatory reserve at the Croatian National Bank. The Croatian National Bank is always fighting for the reserve, so there's a chance for it to take that reservation. I don't see why they won't take her. Only to go to the bank's hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48726	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48727	Dear colleague, you said there would be no "Podravka" affair even though there was still a series of affairs, so here I come from Đaková and we had an affair "Djakovština". If the Croatian National Bank had reacted, it would probably not have happened, but I also believe that the sole culprit for these affairs is not the Croatian National Bank, but a huge influence of politics, or politicians sitting on boards and sitting in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You also opened the issue of the Croatian Post Bank. Also if there were controls, quality supervision of the Croatian National Bank would not have occurred. But we're going back to the influence of politics and there's a very logical question. Who is and on whose recommendation the bank manager came to that place and gave these 70 million kunas that had no cover at all in all. And I agree with you completely that these interest rates that now have business banks, which are facing both citizenship and economy, can simply be called a decorum of both Croatian peoples and Croatian economies. This is best shown primarily in the extremely large interest rates that choke and the citizens, but also asphyxiate every possibility of recovery of the economy. The latest examples show that these interest rates have now fallen from 10 to here according to this tender of 4.93. I spent one such competition, it's somewhere on 5.03, but there are still high interest rates since these banks have been recovered with Croatian money, Croatian citizens' money, and these interest rates are much more favourable in the countries of the European Union. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48728	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48729	Thank you very much. My colleague Vinkovic, and with what little I know about Podravka, I can safely say that it's a monstrous structure that individuals imagined up there how to do something. And they are not amnested by any of this monstrous idea, but they also do not amnesty by the Croatian National Bank that it was not obliged to do what was due. She has a duty to react to any changes in the banking system. If she prescribed that it should not grow monthly but 1%, and in one day the bank received deposits more than its core capital, the Croatian National Bank had to react within its powers, competences and obligations. If she had reacted, she would have stopped it. As I said at the 6th month of last year at the Council of the Croatian National Bank, why not monitor the Croatian Post Bank and not submit a report on what appears to be there, what are the placements. If it had been done regularly, from the moment they were placed because they were not paid from last year but from previous years, they would have been reduced. But it does not amnesty if someone has done something illogical, unbusinessful, or even against the law. But the Croatian National Bank is obliged to react in all cases that violate the stability of the banking system because the breach of the stability of the banking system violates the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia. And if anyone can monitor it and if anyone has to monitor it and can only monitor it, they can not even oversee the State Agency for the Insurance of Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks that pays for all Croatian National Bank's failures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48730	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48731	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Maric, your presentation, your debate is so much too much, that it is clear to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia as to me as a layman in the economy as well. I fully agree with your evaluations on the lack of regulatory measures that led to certain, to say the affair you were talking about. But once during the conversation with you, you mentioned that the profits of certain entities, banks, not to mention some other companies worth 220 billion kuna have been achieved in Croatia. And you said literally that when we talk, it's weird that the country that makes a profit of €220 billion or €70 billion, excuse 30 billion, 3 times 7 twenty-one. Excuse me. That he could be in this kind of crisis and recession. Where's your money? Where'd they go? Are the vessels on the way, so the mothers of banks in the countries from which these banks are actually based across Europe, that we are not talking about which banks are involved and which businesses in the Republic of Croatia. I fully agree with you that the Croatian National Bank can, by lack of regulatory measures, produce and disrupt the stability of the banking system and the economy of the Republic of Croatia and, in fact, contribute directly to the robbery of Croatian citizens and the poverty of the entire society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48732	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48733	Comrade Grubisic, thank you for your observations, but I need to make it right. 222 billion kuna net profits, or 30 billion and 500 million euros in eight years. This is what the Croatian economy achieved only unevenly. And where did your money come from? Well, mostly in banks, in deposits at which these passive interest rates of 7% are now paid. It's the most there. They're getting the ones that took the most. And why am I saying that there are regulatory measures that you have noticed well in the hands of the Croatian National Bank? Well, because under such conditions, it shouldn't happen that under the same conditions, let's say an investment fund that has an obligation to invest 60% in real estate gets a margin loan and invests 60% in shares and that company that already owns it. And we never have in any of the Croatian National Bank reports on such deviating phenomena. Not only are these violations, it is something that damages the Croatian economy. And why is that? Well, I understand everyone from the carpenters to the big companies because I know, I came from the economy and from science that tortures everyone. Simply in relation to the business company and the bank, you only have 10 companies in Croatia who feel great, and everyone else feels miserable about the business relationship with banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48734	Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48735	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice Governor, colleagues and colleagues. When we discuss this six-year-old report from last year, it looks like it's been a long time since. But we see from our discussions that it is quite a current and semi-annual report from the past year and all events in the meantime, especially when the parallel with today's situation is withdrawn both in the financial market and in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear from this report that the crisis we are discussing today has just hit the most strongly on the Republic of Croatia and the financial sector and the economic sector on the overall state of the country. The Croatian National Bank reacted to this in various ways and different activities. There's a first-place suspension of the border reserve. Furthermore, there is a reduction in the minimum reserve rate that we stand for in every debate on the Croatian National Bank Report here in the Parliament and I fully accept and support the proposals that we must introduce a policy of differentiated reserve rates for different types of loans from business banks. Furthermore, interventions by the Croatian National Bank made it clear that the extreme liquidity of the state was maintained. One of the most significant consequences of all these activities and the Croatian National Bank and the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the already mentioned insurance of the savings of citizens is that citizens' trust in banks has been retained. The banking system did not have a stampede on business banks which some, including members of the Assembly, also desired a significant increase in the withdrawal of deposits from business banks. But in the second part of the year, there is also the opposite, i.e. to increase the savings of citizens and to increased deposits in business banks. The interventions of the Croatian National Bank also increased liquidity throughout the financial system. The Croatian National Bank intervened on both kuna and foreign exchange markets and thus preserved a stable kuna. According to the vice governor himself, the financial system has endured the shocks of the crisis, but greater problems occur precisely in the economic system. There is also a decline in gross domestic products by about 5%, there is a fall in personal consumption, exports fall, production decreases and declines in imports, a negative rate of investment growth, an increase in the number of unemployed, fear of future movements, and amongsts and citizens. Of course, the government measures and measures of the Croatian National Bank have stabilised, normalised and in the area of the economy. And that the financial sector is stable in Croatia, that the economic crisis in Croatia is stagnating is also visible when the situation in our country is compared to some of the EU Member States that have imposed on us until not so long ago as examples. Let's remember the financial breakdown in Iceland, let's look at the problems of Greece, Spain, Portugal today. Let's remember the idyllic stories about Ireland's economy, the economic miracle in Ireland. And the situation in our country is a confirmation when we put such a parallel and a comparison with these more developed, richer countries to measure the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the area of the economy, and new measures in the area of lending to the economy we listen to these days, and we have had the opportunity to make certain decisions at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament will certainly help further recovery of the Croatian economy. It is also a confirmation that measures by the Croatian National Bank guarantee financial stability in the state both in the economy and among citizens. Further, synchronised action through activities of the Croatian National Bank and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will certainly contribute to further stabilisation and financial and economic system in our country. In the end, I would like to say that this half-yearly report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2009 was made in quality, to testify about all the activities of the Croatian National Bank during the observed period, on which we can witness positive effects today and for all of this I support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48736	Two replicas. First Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48737	You say a colleague here and talk about a difficult situation in Greece. Please remember when you spoke before 2000 when Croatia was in charge of 19 billion euros, you were talking about Argentine syndrome, and now you're talking about how difficult it is in Greece. I don't think rulings serve to fight facts, because running away from facts will do us no good. They need to be dealt with. Let's just face the fact that other colleagues were just talking about, and it's about the Croatian Post Bank, the state bank that talked about it without mentioning it directly by counterpart Maric, where are therefore some speculative, suspicious loans for buying what? Some shares who knows whose, who knows. You can imagine, therefore, that 100 million kunas were placed only in production, and you can see that this is not happening in a private-owned business bank, but rather in a wonder in the Croatian Post Bank. Is that what you do for someone's pretty eyes? Well, of course the policy line is also responsible here, that it's about corruption, so that's clear, because it's not happening in a particular business bank that's on a private base. Well, all we can see is a trace of Hypo. And it is also state-owned, certain federal states, provinces in Austria. And it also has malversions, capital sprays, policy-spreads and suspicious actions in that bank, whose end extends here as well. I think when that octopus is unwrapped, a lot of things will be clearer and we'll live much more peacefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48738	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48739	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ingrid, I think that if anything else is at least comforting to compare with these richer European countries such as Greece, such as Iceland, and to see that we have nevertheless taken action in our country and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian National Bank, certain measures that have not led us to a situation that is happening precisely in those countries that are members of the European Union. When you talk about problems in the Croatian Post office bank, remember some other banks well, so let's say Rijeka, and I fully agree with my colleague Marić that the supervision and control system that goes by the Croatian National Bank towards business banks should be improved, it should be comprehensive to cover all business banks' activities, if there is to be additional funds provided for the work of the Croatian National Bank, that we have full supervision of all business banks. So it's not just about the Croatian Post Bank, let's remember some other banks that have had these problems, with better supervision, better control by the Croatian National Bank and we can put an end to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48740	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48741	Thank you very much. Mr. Huška, in your debate, you said that the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia began to produce results. I'm asking you to tell me first what measures these are, if you'll raise your response to the replica. And on the other hand, what are the results? Is that 310 thousand unemployed, or 70 thousand more than last year? Is that a 6.5% GDP drop? Is that a 15% drop in consumption? Is that a real pay drop by 2%? Mr. Huška, are you aware that during this debate, during this working day 800 people will be out of work? During this debate two-and-a-half hours, 250 people will be out of work, and during your response to my replica, four people will lose their jobs and get a work book. Four men while you're responding, and then you're telling me about the government's measures giving us results. What a measure, Mr. Hushka, I guess you're the only one who knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48742	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48743	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So you've probably forgotten, we're talking about these measures almost every discussion about the economy, about the problems in the economy. I'm not going to give them an individual tax code, but I've done it a few times, but obviously it's not worth it to you. I will say that the government's measures are, which have been passed, which are in place to ensure the stability of the state. Is one salary to be paid by the state budget late? Is any pension in the Republic of Croatia that goes from the state budget late or is there any other payment problems that go from the state budget to the budget users and to all others? I believe that precisely because of these measures and while I answer to you, these four workers will not be out of a job. That these credit lines that the Government is conducting with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Business Banks are already giving some results today, because we see that a great success has been achieved at this first credit auction, and that this will certainly happen with the next auctions that will follow in the next 10 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48744	Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48745	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that this report for the first semester of 2009 is a report that arouses a lot of attention, as here we are in the Assembly, in the Assembly benches, and also those... conditioned by a whole series of activities and events in both Croatia and the world, and when it comes first and foremost to the economy and overall activities related to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that this first half of 2009 was marked by the financial crisis in the world, that it was also marked by the contraction of global economic growth and international trade, as well as by the worse conditions of financing, and therefore this period was indeed an extremely demanding period for the implementation and implementation of operations and tasks under the jurisdiction of the CNB. Like in other countries, these unfavourable global movements have caused a sharp drop in exports, and a strong rise in foreign debt prices, which is certainly in our first quarter of 2009 and resulted in the resulting depreciation pressures on the domestic market. During that first 2009 the world economy went through the most difficult stage of the economic crisis, and at the end of the observed period the first signs of stabilisation began to show. Just to remind you that the gross domestic product in the euro zone also fell by 4.8% compared to the previous period, USA 3.5, Japan 7.4. Because of such a strong contraction of the economic activity of the Government and the central bank in... They bring additional measures to countries to encourage through monetary and fiscal policies to restore confidence in these financial markets, which we ourselves have witnessed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that in the economy of 2009, in this troubled period, the value of GDP dropped by 6.5% year-on-year, which, unfortunately, had a major impact on the huge drop in export volume, which was also visible throughout the region. As well as an annual reduction in household spending. When we say that the fact that the labour market is tied up, the slowdown and the decline of economic activity itself has led to increased pessimism of employers, and it has definitely been shown on the labour market itself, along with one of the findings that we can say here today, that even in these difficult conditions of engagement, why is it not surprising, part of the employers took advantage of it, and, in addition, at certain times, it went into the lay-off of the workforce even though it may not have been a direct need to do so, why not to say it here in public. But the fact that the number of persons employed went from a period prior to that to a reduction. So, the unemployed are getting more and more. It is well and convenient to mention that unlike the employment and unemployment indicators, wages are more slowly adjusted to developments in this real sector of the economy and the slowdown of wage growth was more pronounced than the slowdown of inflation. Based on this, the growth of real wages has also slowed down. ... and it is normal and understandable that the private sector adapts faster than the public sector to the conditions in which the economy is currently located, and employers first made these adjustments through self-employment and employment issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is interesting to mention that when we talk about the price and the prices that the deterioration of inflation and inflationary pressures during the first half of 2009 were achieved primarily in terms of the fall in personal consumption, and what is certainly affected by this one fall of optimism related to consumption itself. And given the possible future unfavourable expectations, and related to the economic situation and only the movement on the labour market, these are certainly citizens under these conditions who spent less. Interestingly, the first quarter records rising prices of crude oil and other raw materials. However, these prices are at a significant level than in the same period of the previous year. The very appreciation of the exchange rate according to the U.S. dollar has eased the pressures that came from these sources. Of course, when it talks about the part and about the course itself in those 6 months, Kuna slightly strengthened the euro by not full 0.5%, and the CNB in that period wanted to ease the depreciation intensity itself, as part of foreign exchange interventions, sold over 500m euros to business banks twice, and with the aim of changing the instruments and this goal and through the change of monetary policy instruments to banks, it significantly freed part of the foreign reserve which, in those conditions, increased the appreciation pressures and, fortunately, the bank re-involved and bought from commercial banks 312m euros. And then, after that, in the second quarter, that depression calmed down, and that's where the budget rebalance itself brought it. When we talk about the money market itself, then it is the end of the previous one and the very beginning of 2009 was marked by tensions on the money market. And with this the central bank was encouraged to release those parts of previously immobilised foreign reserves of the monetary system itself, which was also accompanied by a restrictive creation of the kuna liquidity itself in order to stabilise the exchange rate. These measures kept the exchange rate stable but increased the tensions on the money market and added to the good part through this increased cash market turnover, there was a rapid growth and a record fluctuation in interest rates, so certain measures in the specific part are due to... It's the fluctuation of interest that we have shown here in today's debate as one of the most interesting segments, the elements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the one hand, I dare say, therefore, the increase in income itself and the acquisition of banks, and on the other, not the quality or non-principle use of funds primarily for economic recovery, above all production. It is interesting to note that it is a matter of saving our domestic business sector. There was a half slow increase in savings and hand-to-hand deposits compared to the same period last year. Certainly, this slowdown is growing, saving the company, the banks are primarily affected by the reduced deposits of companies that, under this difficult supply of liquidity, have intensified the spending of their financial assets from some past period. Unlike the very deposits of businesses in the first 6 months, the population's deposits continued to grow, but somewhat more moderate than it was last year. Another interesting thing is that in addition to the moderate growth of total deposits, there is a continuation of the trend of substitution and replacement of kuna savings by foreign exchange, i.e. by increasing a certain degree of eurosilence of the domestic banking system, therefore savings in the euro itself have been increased. In the business of banks during the first half of 2009 there were a lot of visible difficulties precisely in the collection of certain outstanding claims as well as the increase in poorer placements which we also had in the debate here so far and we touched. Which eventually increased the number of banks that were doing business with the loss itself. And given that time is unsettlingly flying, I could say here that the conclusion is that despite these conditions in which the domestic economy of the CNB was located, it has also achieved its basic objectives and tasks. It is clear that this rate of growth of consumer prices alone was low and did not significantly deviate from those that are indeed euro zones and other comparable countries in Central Europe. Certainly, in the time ahead, especially that we here today follow the report for the first semester of 2009, we have a very interesting period, unfortunately economically burdened with problems, and the second half of 2009, and certainly we will get in the constituency benches, I believe that with great thinking or interest we also follow this report for the second half and here for the year that it has now started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48746	Thank you. Two replicas. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48747	You rightly ask questions about plasmas, or you ask why they do not give higher plasmas for production. Why are banks doing this? Why there is essentially the same regulatory mechanism, for giving, for buying shares, and insurance for that is also a ledina for production. These things have already been misplaced in the system. The fundamental question is why the same regulatory mechanism, why are not being asked exactly if it is already done, in the placement of shares and for the purchase of shares. Then why not secure larger reserves, bigger reserves for such totally risky and speculative placements, there certainly is a state and power responsible. The Croatian National Bank in this report, nothing is disputed, what counterpart Dragica said and her unquestioned success in the stability of the monetary system. But it's just as controversial as what wasn't in the report. Which is why silence is covered in a wave of silence. Why are there still some fear that they will be struck by criticism that raises these questions. These are serious questions that we MPs here have the right to know and ask for an answer from the Croatian National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48748	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48749	It is clear that when it comes to the economy and in particular production and all of us or you who have had the opportunity to be and work in manufacturing companies know that in most cases other than those who may be partly related to the monopoly, working in production is extremely difficult. It is clear that banks are primarily driven by logic and why not say, by the logic of profit, therefore, they do not have a social interest above all but have an interest in achieving economic gains on their capital market. And it certainly is up to us, normally in the government, but with the overall policy of the country itself, and with all their goals, to provide priorities. And when we talk about whether it is necessary, whether we should be silent, and first of all, we were thinking about us from ruling to keep silent, and so here is the debate which today says that in a constructive way, with proposals, knowledge, we want to influence the course of activity, especially though it is about the CNB report but then also about the procedures that are related and the adoption of the Law, which is a commitment here in the parliamentary benches, but then of course through cooperation with the executive authority and with all those other mechanisms that exist in the country to help the economy in general, but to achieve new essential preconditions for further development and in these conditions of crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48750	Mr. Representative Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48751	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Turk about the rise in non-payment credit ratings and the problems in which the banks are located, so you mentioned production as the most difficult position of the economic branch. Well, I don't trust business bank reports, this increase in non-performing claims I would believe if it were the result of an evaluation of the Croatian National Bank, not an assessment of the banks themselves, because they influence their business results, and later I can collect that claim. As I can not charge those who estimate that they are chargeable. And as for production, there are no more difficult branches to work in, but there are no harder branches of economics than business banks. Production and business banks are the two separate bodies of the most difficult production positions, they feel so miserable, they are so powerless because banks offer them the truth always in their own way. And they usually feel when they call their business bank like they've called the machine, and it says, "If you want a new loan, press 1. If you want a new credit card, press 2. If you want a new Internet payment press 3. and if you want an explanation why your interest is higher on already approved loans please hang up." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48752	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48753	Thank you, colleague Maric. You also encouraged me to an additional segment of thinking. It is clear that the business banks are, above all, in their work, in their personal business related to profit and to the creation of a newly created value and it is appropriate that within the frameworks of the total Croatian economy and the bank, regardless of whose ownership they share the fate of that total economy. It is also true that even according to the results that we know about the year behind us banks do not actually share it but are in a thick better position, and then is one of the mechanisms, and you said it yourself in your debate, the possibility that through various book transactions there your profit for it stated... reduces through new reservations and something like that. And when it comes to investment relations in production compared to other investment segments, this story and topic is not related to us or us even to the social system of arrangements, it is simply related to the logic of profit in a business where we know that through investment in production and over the course of the creation of a new investment, so to realisation is what banks go with the slowest possible money as such because they want first of all to satisfy their basic logic that is profit. It is clear to all of us to find suitable... respecting the law of the free market and capital that it is precisely developing production, and it generates the newly created value and development of the economy we will find these mechanisms which in the time ahead give the most quality results, so I repeat in the conditions of the crisis, but also in the conditions of getting out of the crisis which I hope is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48754	Final review, Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank Relja Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48755	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I wasn't actually going to give the final word, but here are some findings that I just have to react to. This morning, it was said here that the CNB is guilty of both Podravka and that the CNB is also responsible for the Postanska Banka and unemployment, for the decline in production, it was even heard that we are inciting robbery and asphyxiation, that there is a lack of regulation, that due to this lack of regulatory measures, the banking system is practically at the edge of the collapse. But the truth is something else entirely. In the opening statement, I tried to explain how in what state we found ourselves in the beginning of 2009 in this period for which the report is valid. The truth is that because we were guilty a few years earlier of trying to slow down credit growth and slow down foreign debt, we were to blame, that it was the only reason why we were begging to suffer that first blow of the crisis, the closure of financial markets, the significant changes in the conditions in which the banking system acted without the collapse. And that the country was still externally liquid under such conditions. However, not only that, but also that the entire financial system was capitalised enough to welcome and fight the growing non-refundable demand in the activity. Otherwise, we would have gone worse than many countries, worse than those countries in the Baltic and worse because in those countries, as you know, there has been a real decline in the wages of the population by more than ten percent. Therefore, what is the problem, the problem is not the participatory responsibility and authority of the CNB, the problem is the range of monetary policy itself. If monetary policy itself acts in the economy, the problem is its potential and its reach under the conditions of such a small open economy of a highly Euro-euro-supervised country with a very large share of foreign banks in the system. Therefore, we are really in a situation where we need to coordinate these two policies. There have been some specific questions that I can answer here and right away. It's a matter of marginal loans, for example. They are far smaller and far less significant than mentioned. According to the data I have at 6 months, only about 135, 136 million kunas, so they represent less than 0.05% of total loans. They may also provide information that it has also been established in direct controls of only a few non-compliances and minor non-compliances in shorter periods, reserve measures and other monetary policy measures. As far as the monetary policy instruments themselves are concerned, we will continue to change them. And when it comes to mandatory reserves that can't be accounted for on the way, but only on the passive and only on the passive, and in the case of an escontaneous rate that I again mention that the rate that doesn't have any meaning of creating the price of money, because we don't even make an escort. And in some other cases, we will change our measures and our instruments according to the situation and in accordance with our legal powers and in accordance with our legal tasks and in our best faith to do a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48756	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48757	I'd like to correct the vice governor's allegations that I can't account for the minimum reserve rates on the asset, but only on the passive. The truth is, I can't rely on existing regulations right now, but it can be introduced into both the activity and the passive. And the whole debate today went into the fact that the Croatian National Bank should introduce a minimum reserve rate on both the activity and the passive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48758	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48759	We are moving to a half-yearly report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2009. Carrier of the Croatian National Bank. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the conclusion which reads: "A half-yearly report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2009 is accepted". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes. 108 votes for, 2 abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48806	As the President of the Parliament announced, because we do not have the conditions for points 9, 8, and 9, we skip and move to point 10. This is - Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to create conditions for the reduction of liquidity in the system Proposer of 27 SDP club representatives. The representatives of the Croatian Parliament submitted this interpretation with the basis of art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. Do the proposing representatives want to show themselves? Yeah. Dear representative Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48807	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The SDP club came out with an interpretation of the government's work, i.e. the role of the government, which is the subject of the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in creating conditions for reducing indifference in the system. We're worried that in the pay system indifference lasts for a very long time. For 18 months, indifference in the system is growing continuously. We have already come out of the law in 6 months last year by analysing the negatives, i.e. the growth of unpaid liabilities, in which we have proposed that the government reduces payment deadlines relating to payments from the State budget, i.e. to ensure that within shorter deadlines, businesses, state-owned institutions and largely state-owned. The uncertainty and irregularity of payment of liabilities are one of the biggest problems of the Croatian economy. Although our Law on Mandatory Relations prescribes payment deadlines in business transactions, they are not respected or sanctioned. At the end of February 2009, the government in its anti-recession package established, among other things, the obligation to secure the liquidity of public enterprises, and thus the private sector, by cutting the payment deadlines for public companies and saving at all levels in these companies. That was measure three. So very highly ranked. That this measure has not been implemented and implemented in a satisfactory manner, the statistics on the drastic growth of individence in the system shall be provided. I'll... only a few periods in 2009. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, in April 2009, the number of insolvency legal entities is increasing in a row. At that time, nearly 22,500 insolvency companies were registered to employ 41,000 workers. The commitments then reached 16.2 billion kuna. In July 2009, the trend continued. The number of insolvency, legal and physical persons has an increasingly rapid dynamic compared to previous periods. There are already 23 and a half thousand legal entities with a slightly smaller number of employees than 38,000 600. However, the amount of outstanding liabilities already reached at the time was 18.2 billion and was increased by nearly 6 billion or 48% compared to the same period last year. In only one month, therefore, in July compared to the June amount of outstanding liabilities increased by 993.9 million kuna, then the number of insolvent natural persons who were in late July were 34 thousand 148, which is mainly that or a slightly larger number of then unemployed. Their unsettled obligations then amounted to 4.6 billion kuna. And now by the end of 2009, the amount of outstanding orders is 27.1 billion kuna. It should be said that this is probably not the final amount, because many entrepreneurs do not take judicial measures to force the payment of claims because this means breaking up business relations. At that time, that amount was shown by 27 thousand insolvency legal entities employed by 48 thousand 500 workers, which potentially put jobs at risk. They will be recruited in the next period or already in this period by unemployed people who will actually be charged with the budget for some time because they will be at the Employment Office for several months receive a certain amount of compensation. Within a year, the number of insolvency legal entities increased by 1/3 of the number of craftsmen by 50%. The trend of outstanding tax-based liabilities and contributions that increased by 4.5% in July 2009 compared to June 2009 and at that time amounted to 9 billion kuna. In December, they amount to 10.9 billion kuna or 49.6% of all outstanding liabilities relate to obligations based on taxes and contributions, or in other words, that means that the tax administration is beginning to impose such obligations. However, it concerns the fact that 70% of legal persons are inequitable due to the obligations of unsettled persons for more than a year but also the number of insolvency persons whose obligations are older or up to 60 days old, which means potentially their liquidity problem. Long-term and high liquidity in Croatia has not been recorded backwards for 10 years. Let's remember the end of the 99th year when the budget owed nearly 10 billion kunas and no one paid anyone in the economic system anymore. It's a similar situation today. At the beginning of 2000, a special law was also passed where the country's claims were regulated against such entities. It was possible to justify then and in a way that the war was over, that many legal persons in the economic system were either missing during the war, or had some problems, then through this law in different ways were resolved state claims for about 23 billion kuna. After 10 years, it is not possible to solve this in the same way, and we have already come to nearly 11 billion kunas of such claims. Potentially, they will now grow faster that an increasing number of economic operators will come into a situation so that they cannot pay their salaries and then do not pay taxes and contributions. This situation directly affects the reduction of economic activity. The increase in non-payment deadlines puts riots in the payment system, not reacting to such phenomena endangers active and capable economic operators and brings them into financial and business problems. The result is a partial reduction in the gross profits of entrepreneurs who in the first 9 months of last year have reduced gross profits by 30%, by the end of the year the question of what it will look like, we will soon have the first business data for 2009. It is therefore necessary to give a special emphasis on liquidity insurance, strengthening discipline in the financial system. It is extremely important for the state to ensure timely settlement of its obligations and obligations by state and public enterprises. This should in particular harmonize obligations with the real possibilities of their funding, requiring further fiscal consolidation. Here, just a few minutes ago, we discussed the find of the State Audit, which in its findings in certain ministries actually finds that commitments are being created that cannot be paid in the current year, so they are being transferred to the following year. The fact is that 5 large state-owned companies, we have observed here HEP, HAC, Croatian Roads, Railways, INA have growing debts, which have a significant impact on the liquidity of the system. Then we estimate by some data that they owe about a billion kuna. The truth in his report was presented by the government with far less information, and Minister Schuker made it a little less yesterday. However, it is symptomatic that 4 large state-owned companies have greater obligations than the claims, which will further affect their business. For orderly maintenance of the payment system, it is necessary to take rigorous measures for non-payments because they actually generate insolvency and affect those active and capable. This applies in particular to the state budget and state-owned enterprises and institutions. I have already said that on 18 June we referred to the procedure of the draft law on payment deadlines for state and public enterprises, the state budget and other state institutions. There is a proposal on the agenda, the truth has not yet come to debate, we hope that this year it will still be discussed. On the proposed law, the government gave a negative opinion explaining that it has taken adequate and sufficient measures in this regard and that liquidity in the system is being defunct, so it is necessary to take additional actions to mitigate the situation and to address the existing situation. That was a motive for why we went out with this interpretation. At the end of that interpretation, we do not, in fact, determine the responsibility of neither the Government nor the individual members of the government, but we want the Parliament to discuss and draw certain conclusions. We're proposing six such conclusions, so I'll read them here. First, to task the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure the settlement of the liabilities of those in the state budget and other state institutions within 30 and state and public enterprises within 60 days. Next, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with binding administrations in public and state-owned enterprises and responsible persons in ministries and other state institutions to draw up a plan of settlement with creditors in case of non-compliance with the obligations set out in point 1 of these conclusions and report to the Supervisory Boards, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 3. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with obliging members of supervisory committees in state and public enterprises to establish the responsibility of the administration for delaying the obligations set out in the settlement plan with the creditors and to initiate the procedure for their resolution. Under 4. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to quarterlyly analyse the liquidity situation of state and public enterprises, the state budget and other state institutions and to report to the Croatian Parliament. 5. It is up to the Ministry of Finance, the Tax and Customs Administration to speed up the procedures for the collection of outstanding taxes, contributions and other public charges. And six. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to refer, within 6 months, to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and acceptance of the proposal of the Financial Business Act in accordance with Directive 2000/35 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against late payment in business transactions. And now just a few sentences about the government's report on this impelation. The government is very broad in terms of reasons, i.e. the reasons why and why it should not be accepted the allegations of this interpretation. However, it cannot deny the existing situation in the payment system. The government is calling for a global financial crisis. He says there has been a disturbance in global financial flows that has been followed by the collapse of large and significant financial institutions. However, this does not apply to the Republic of Croatia. In Croatia, none of the more important banks or financial institutions came into trouble for these reasons, or their collapse occurred. Croatia's crisis did not result in a crisis spilling from the world, but it is in the very system of political and economic that is in Croatia today. It's just another finding that's actually worrying. The government says calling for the number of insolvency legal persons, it is called for the fact that there are 16 thousand 51 insolvency rights among them that employ only one employee. I think it's amazing that she can appeal to such a fact and then say that it's not worrying, and at the same time they make up 65% of the total amount of outstanding liabilities. Well, that's actually the problem, because if they don't have more employees, they have a small amount of property, and actually over 50% are debtors and break the pay system. The government says it should be opened, i.e. that such persons close one company and then open another company, while obligations remain in a trading company that goes into liquidation or bankruptcy. So we ask the question, if the government knows about such a situation, if it's such a large number that it's alarming, why doesn't it propose certain amendments to the law that it can't be allowed. Finally, the government is two proposals, in fact, or informs us that there will be a new uniform arrangement of the enforcement system and that there will be a new single regulation of the business share records. So if it's going to be the consequence of this interpretation, we've still run something in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48808	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48809	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Mr. President, thank you for two minutes to meet me. The fact that we have to start in Croatia today is that indivisibility is the main generator of the problem in the economy and that many Croatian companies have a problem because the state is most often half-participated, not only in the state or state budget, which is usually said that the state budget meets all its obligations. But state-owned companies in the Republic of Croatia are inequitable generators and we are witnessing that one HEP is owed over a billion kuna at any moment, that pharmacists are owed big money through the health system, etc. So the state participates with approximately 10 billion kuna in this general indifference, which today is 27 billion kuna in Croatia. And now the question is whether all these measures that the government has taken in recent days of funds, the release of money from the CNB to give the economy, whether the effect might be better if they regularly comply, that the state and its businesses regularly comply. Because we're coming into one I'd say a radical situation where a circle revolves between the state and entrepreneurs and now here as a state through HBOR and through business banks helps the economy. Normally, that's not good, of course, that such an economy can't move forward. As far as the number of insolvency persons is concerned, he is more than ever at this point, regardless of what Minister Schuker says is referring to those who do not have a single employee, but it is important to say if the problem is detected that the legal response is also needed. Companies such as HEP, HAC, Croatian Roads, HZ, INA, I would say INA because remember that INA is owned equally, Croatia is owned by INA and MOL, it owes about 11 billion kuna to these other budget bonds or health systems as I said about the debt to the pharmaceutical industry. What the SDP considers and what we have referred to in this procedure, and it would be good for the government to accept one proposal that we have put forward, which is that, as is the case in Europe, the usual state obligations must be met within a certain time limit. In particular, for the country for 30 days, state-owned enterprises would have broken the liquidity chain and perhaps this aid to the economy would have been much greater than it is at this point, or perhaps this aid would have meant more to companies than this 500 million kuna, which was released yesterday at the auction. We must not underestimate this story and in some ways 27 billion kunas of internal debt is an absolute problem. The State should go primarily when introducing order to the market. Another thing that's very interesting is the low collection of state claims. At this point, around 10 billion kunas of the state failed to collect contributions and tax liabilities, and in some ways perhaps some of the funds could then be found to reduce their share in liquidity. Finally, of course, it's always nice to propose some measures and say that success is 500 million kuna, but gentlemen 10 billion kuna is much more than 500 which was released yesterday and 10 billion kunas owe to companies that are squirming in problems and which, of course, cannot develop normally, work and ultimately carry our economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48810	Thank you. We have a correction from Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48811	Thank you very much. I'm correcting an incorrect quote from my colleagues, quoting "The number of insolvents is bigger than ever.". That's not true. In 2003, there were 29 thousand insolvent persons legal, now 24, so 5 grand less. In 2003, 77,000 employees were employed, today 44. So the number of insolvents is lower today by more than 15% and the number of employees is more than 30% compared to 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48812	Another correction by Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48813	Thank you very much. A colleague, Maras, says the indifference generator is state-owned enterprises. And you deny yourself that the state has not been paid 10 billion kuna from entrepreneurs. I would only add not 10 billion from 94th to today entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia and have not paid 50 billion kuna to the state. If only half of it had been paid by the state, it would not have owed one day to a single businessman of any kuna. And as for the number of businesses and non-equity enterprises and the amount of liabilities, I would only remind myself that in 99 years ago, there were as many as 30,000 legal persons blocked and more than 28 billion kunas of outstanding liabilities. Therefore, individence is a constant of the Croatian economy, with the causes being precisely the employers of those most calling the non-payment state.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48814	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. He's gone. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48815	Thank you very much. One extremely important topic, one extremely hot potato, one subject directly related to corruption, with possible fraud, and one topic fully justified by fellow SDP advocates, through the interpretation of this Assembly's agenda and the fact that through these two corrections, the two corrections to the previous debate, are being manipulated. They're accurate, but they manipulate the dimension of the problem. In fact, I'm going to say a few things about total indifference. No one in this country knows what our condition is today, it's number one. Exactly how much anyone owes, where he owes, why he's in debt, nobody knows, and not even in public enterprises for which he's supposed to be some kind of unique register. According to FINA's data, and that doesn't mean everything, it's a total of 26 billion. The fact is that the three-month growth rate is 20%, so it's expected that we've already crossed 30 billion. To be expected, but I repeat, no one knows exactly. Secondly, what is extremely important to highlight and what is a very clear argument to all of us that this is a problem that we need not only the Government of the Republic of Croatia but almost all of them, and I think that the debate on such a problem based on the interpretation of colleagues from the SDP is not appropriate to the overall problem. Each of us is clear and it is clear to everyone in this country that non-payment is one of the levers for corruption and is a sad fact that an entrepreneur in a situation has to pay to get paid his service. I mean, it's really tragic and definitely if nothing else for that reason the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken responsibility we in the Assembly are willing to support it in every legislative proposal it has announced for a long time, but there is still no register. All of what we've had opportunity to read from this government response to this impelation. Therefore, our support is not at all controversial but it is almost certain that the situation in which an entrepreneur must pay for it is definitely something that we should condemn and prevent and also that the future of the entrepreneur depends on whether someone will pay him in 60 days, 80 or 250 days because if he does not pay, his system falls into the water. Although this system is almost or better said, it is likely that this entrepreneur has a price, has a quality, has productivity, however simply two players are found who register a company with some minimum capital, take goods, disappear, the company in the register remains and the debt remains, and the entrepreneur must simply go into bankruptcy. And I repeat, regardless of its quality of products, productivity, price and competitiveness it is completely irrelevant. This system is definitely a system that rejects any serious potential investor. Definitely, a system that does not guarantee payment, a system where public companies have no obligation to pay on time and nothing happens to anyone. This system almost certainly rejects every serious investor player and therefore let us not wonder why, by the criteria of investment, nothing happens. But let's also not wonder why we have a whole series of speculators because this system allows speculators to deal with that activity they know, which is borderline, if not inside crime, but almost certainly borderline inside crime. In order to clarify the overall and overall situation, not to play, we do not embellish the picture with numbers and solvable legal persons and employees because normally it is one category that has a whole other dimension about it, a category that has a fixed number. And it's definitely saying that in the 12th month of 1999, we had a total unsettled 28.6 billion. So then something happened over the next four years, I repeat something happened, and the 12th month of 2003 was unsettled 15 billion. I repeat, 26 late 1999 and 15 late 2003. And yet something happened in the meantime, from the end of 2003 to the end of 2009, so that figure is now 27 billion outstanding liabilities. I'm reading the same table. So that's the data, it doesn't matter how many numbers it is, I mean it's important how many people are employed, it's important how many economic operators are, but since we know what our register is, since we know how to track the register, because we know how to track it, and now the government is going to do that part, and that's who the founders are. So let's say loud and clear. On many elements, we have a system that responds to speculators. And on many elements we have a system that enables these frauds, and on the other hand prevents everyone serious, and what little we have serious from day to day is in extreme uncertainty and the question is whether tomorrow they will be able to continue their economic activity if they enter the chain of outstanding liabilities. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, I would also like to remind you of a bill that we, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, sent to the Parliament in June 2009. The proposal is still in order, thanks to the possibility given by the Rules of Procedure. And the proposal is called the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, a bill obliging a public partner to give the service provider, works, no matter what type it is, but it is important for that service provider to give its payment guarantee. Because if a public partner has the right to ask the service provider, and has five different guarantees under the Public Procurement Act there, I think it would be very correct for a public partner to make a public partner at the conclusion of a contract other than an honorable word and good intentions to and a very specific instrument, which would protect the believer to both be charged and charged. If I did not list the other measures provided for in this law, and among other things one ban on a public partner to open any competition until he has settled the old obligations, it is certain that in a segment of public procurement, it is certain that a lot of order would be introduced in the segment of public enterprises, improve the liquidity system. However, this requires the willingness, the ability and the knowledge that we have or that the technology of inclusion in the agenda of the Assembly of certain legislative proposals has allowed this legislative proposal to enter into debate. Here's six months past, still waiting for his order. Surely, we would also have the opportunity to discuss this proposal, but we definitely believe that it is one of the key mosaics in the overall mosaic of composing a system that gives way to the responsible and that prevents the manipulation and abuse of speculators, especially those who are either in Leprechaun or in some other prisons, and we know that there are plenty of them from Remetinca. Therefore, I think that one responsibility for all of us is necessary, primarily the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because it has taken over that obligation, and the data in a very clear way speaks about the sequence of events, the consequences, we are aware of them all at every moment and every time. And that is why, in that sense, I think that the debate should support the initiative of the SDP interpretation proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48816	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First it's Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48817	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, colleague Koračević, you are absolutely right and I think that not only from today's 24.2. day, and the interpretation was released into the procedure of the SDP club on 13 November, it can actually be seen that the government's intrusiveness and unwillingness to deal with this very important economic problem. Of course you're right and as far as delaying the release of laws from opposition parties is concerned, among other things not only your Public Procurement Act but also the second whole set of SDP laws that have been in the process for months and cannot actually be debated. I think the inconclusiveness of the government and, in fact, the inadequacy of the government to deal with this very important problem is seen from the following facts. In fact, the government doesn't allow any way of beating debts. There's a whole series of companies that the state actually owes a lot of money to, and these companies have to pay VAT to the state, no matter what the state doesn't pay them, it means bills. Why is it not possible to beat debts really not clear to me, because in this way it would certainly be easier to operate the company in some way. In addition, the question arises why the government does not actually allow the VAT to be charged, rather than by invoices. I received a reply from the Ministry of Finance that this is in line with the European Union directives which I really cannot believe. And I think that these are measures that the state, if there were a real will to solve this problem, would, in part, alleviate the problems of inequity in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48818	Thank you. Answer Mr. Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48819	Well, fellow Members, it's very clear to all of us what this is all about. The simple system adapts to the current needs of someone, something. But definitely the system doesn't give the necessary general and very clear security for each of our entrepreneurs, and that's why it's good that this interpretation, that through this interpretation, we put the subject on the agenda. I've got one case, and I've met the secretary of state. Unfortunately, he's not here, Mr. Mladneo. I've been trying to reach him for two months, but I can't get an appointment with him. It is an entrepreneur who has entered a different interpretation of the Tax Administration in one city and the Tax Administration in another city. The tax administration in another city put him in a blockade of over 30 million kunas. That man, after five years of ruling, received satisfaction from the Administrative Court or found that this Tax Administration, which put him minus 30 million kuna, had failed to comply with the law. And this man still cannot consume his right made by a ruling of the Administrative Court, which is also a power of power. I'm asked for help, so make sure we Parliamentarians can do something about it. But here, I have to tell you that I've been trying to get an appointment with Secretary of State Youth for two months now, along with that entrepreneur, because he's threatened to get into oblivion, that his entire system is going to fail. It's a good thing he's here. He heard about it, he knows what kind of entrepreneur it is, he knows what the problem is, so I'm asking him this way for an appointment. Just for an appointment, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48820	Thank you. We have a line further from Mr. Agent Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48821	Thank you very much. Mr. Koračević, of course, you noticed well in your debate that this interpretation of the SDP Club of Representatives is about the fact that in Croatia there is a liquidity problem or not to pay, that with such a view of the SDP club, you, in some way, were indirectly agreed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because here, it's at least to me if there's nothing else that pleases you that somehow shyly admit that yes, there is. We can't just agree on who's to blame for this kind of indifference, so here's these two shy suggestions that something will still be done, and that means it's a uniquely arranged system for the implementation of forced collection and arrangements and records of business shares that says that come on, there's at least a good will to do something. And in the claim that it is a problem that lasts for years, as counterpart Maric said. I still have to say that yes, the problem is long-term. Yes, in 2000, the problem of indivisibility from as many billions as it was, either partially or partially resolved, so ask today’s entrepreneurs to whom it is due. But I don't know why the other six years now care about that way and that now this insolvency has come to these billions that we don't even know what's fina and what's real billions of dollars, not to make billions of debts. But it's interesting how legal people can be insolvent, they can have major and auxiliary accounts so they can't be traced. And how come a physical person who's also insolvent so doesn't pay for electricity one month, another month. You know what they'll do to them? They're gonna cut the power. So there's a way to solve it. But here I hope that this interpretation will also be one incentive to turn off the power to HEP if HEP owes that billion or two already spoken of.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48822	Thank you. Mr. Koračević's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48823	Well, colleague Denona, we all agree in this assembly I won't tell you your findings. But we agree with the problem that there is also a problem with the dimension of the problem normally that depending on the position or opposition that this problem is either shown realistically or we try to embellish it. But I almost certainly wouldn't agree with you if the government didn't want to handle it. She wants it in all programming and planning documents always announced their intention to resolve and to establish an effective system with all necessary effective control mechanisms. But so far, they have failed. And the very fact that they failed to speak, and in this response, it says that the government will consider and the necessary changes to legislation, the frameworks for establishing new economic activities, curbing the gray economy, the single account register, the full picture of the holders of the share in the register. Therefore, the government is still in the announcement and at the level of the letter of intent. But we also count on it to move from letter intent to very concrete actions and activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48824	Thank you. We still have a line, Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48825	Thank you very much. Your colleague Koračević, the data you have read about insolvency, is correct because from the same table I read. But when you're commenting, it seems to me that there's a little bit of a lack of courage and they show up back with a name and a last name. That there is no courage to call the appearances of an unwanted name and a last name. Well, who are these non-payments in Croatia? So should we hide that it's trade chains, so should we hide that it's INA, that we should hide that it's big pharmaceutical companies, that we should hide that it's a PAN or a kiop that owes 700 million kuna. Should we hide that there are companies that are solvable and they don't pay because they're engaged in other activities, they're not purposely spending their resources, do we? Why does Podravka owe? Because she was playing with money. Why does INA owe you? Because the owner deposited several dozen million euros in the bank. Well, he won't, then he owes the state. Why, we don't think the supplier who resuscitated for example Adriatica.net the other day is going to reflect on their creditors. For all these amounts, they will remain in debt to their believers. That's why I think we should call our first name and last name specific undesirable social phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48826	Thank you. Mr. Koračević's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48827	Well, fellow Maric, I really thank you for this replica and this is a unique opportunity to, and perhaps symbolically, here I am sitting in the middle to agree with both your right-hand debate and your initiative colleagues on the left-hand side and I totally agree with you. Let's call them names and last names. And let's assign the Government of the Republic of Croatia to that, because it is she who should have those names and names. Let's put in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, here we have two State Secretarys, three State Secretarys. Let's put in charge, let's start a debate in the Croatian Parliament to see which companies are private, which are trade chains, which are public enterprises, which are municipalities and cities. Let's call it a full name and last name, which is why I support this SDP initiative to put this topic on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. It is regrettable that this topic on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament must come through interpretation, but let us call this story by its full name and last name both for our sake and for our future. In any case, my support for your idea, I hope that the representatives of the government will also accept and give us the opportunity to actually conduct a measurement debate about it, as we are carrying out our information that has given a very clear picture of the time since '98. until 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48828	Thank you. And the last replica, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48829	Thank you very much. In the debate, you well noticed that such things either come through the interpretation of the opposition or when they propose representatives' clubs certain laws they wait, wait sometimes they do not welcome their turn at all. Things should be called a full and real name, and the real name for this thing is that the ruling party has nothing to say about this problem, that's the real name, and that the problem of 27 billion kunas of internal indifference doesn't deserve a debate on behalf of the HDZ Club. This is the relationship that the government and the ruling party have with this problem and all the citizens who are watching us from Croatia today, all the businessmen know that HDZ does not care. He doesn't care about HDZ what 27 billion kuna is internal indifference and he doesn't care what it is in the last 10 years. It should also be called the right name and last name and say that it is true that now the worst situation is that in the last year, the number of insolvency persons has increased by a third, that internal liquidity has increased by 8.6 billion kuna, that in those legal entities or craftsmen, 70 thousand Croatian citizens who cannot, are blocked by companies, cannot work because they cannot charge, these people cannot get paid. And all of this, Coli Korajevic doesn't deserve to be discussed on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. So much for the ruling party's relationship to this problem that we are putting into order today. Is there anything more to be said?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48830	Thank you. Answer. But by the way, no club commented on anything. Here you go. Not just the HDZ, but not one club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48831	About Mr. President... There I really, alone on behalf of the club, here's a application card, I should've talked about, but simply counting on the clubs to go into debate on that subject I was late. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I speak individually. Therefore, this system of preparation of the topic works extremely well and here I am caught on that bait and will have to suffer criticism at the club due to an untimely reaction. But I am definitely not going into whether, whether the HDZ Club has the need to discuss this problem or not, certainly everyone responsible in this country is responsible for their responsibility on this subject, their contribution to the resolution of this topic must give, and I personally still want to believe that we will welcome the time for this system of balance, primarily because of our entrepreneurs and the overall economy which can and only create a new value in this country, and without new value we cannot expect as a state to realize what we expect and what our citizens expect, but definitely a system of default, a system of debt, a system in which you have to pay you as an entrepreneur, because the one to whom we have to judge and who needs to be dealt with, and for which it is responsible I repeat the executive authority or specifically the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48832	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48833	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, the first sentence in this interpretation is the argument that the inequitableness and irregularity of paying is one of the biggest problems of the Croatian economy. Well, I don't think it's any newspaper that's been discovered, because even the leadess Mrs. Zgrebec said that in '99. This indifference was also very high in those times of the coalition government in some way and in certain legal provisions, and even with one of the over-the-counter policies it was taken down, i.e. that indifference of payment, which I had had the opportunity to honestly speak and listen to and listen to in the business, which it was, that period and that time period mentioned as one of the times when a larger amount of funds was in the economy, in the course of the economy, and as such payment was much more high-quality. Normally, the current situation in this situation is present and that this liquidity and default of payment and this internal debt mentioned in the 27 billion kuna, normally burdens the business of the economic operator, burdens the business of individuals, companies and all this also causes major problems related to the existence of certain activities and branches of the economy. I'd only mention one thing, let's say something more and I'm dealing with it. It is a matter of relations and of countries by one of its commitments to agriculture, which are incentives for farmers. Debts that are present and that we are talking about today both individually and parties, and I don't know this and it's mentioned that these debts are from the debt of production to those capital investments taken over by the state that 50% will pay, that they reach up to one billion kuna. Of course, if we see that these funds that were already supposed to be in the agricultural holding are also causing huge indifference among farmers. Normally, many of them are unable to renew production, and this year's spring crop is under a large questionnaire because the liquidity of farmers there has also caused indifference of the manufacturer's input. Normally, all those who, the direction used in agriculture, and this is both shadow and fuel and fertiliser and protective means, etc., that if farmers cannot, or farmers, pay it that they will not enter into new responsibilities and give them these instructions again if they have not paid the old instructions. I've had the opportunity to talk to the companies that finance the spring seed and who said they just couldn't go to such a risk to finance the farmers' spring harvest without knowing if they'd get their funds back. One even told me to say in 10 cases when they co-financed the production of milk in 10 farms that only 1 farm gave them back their funds, 9 just can't. It means that this indifference that started from that part is that the state has not paid off those funds, and it encourages them to be normally and accounted for, and these farmers count on that chain to be extended to the producers themselves. Recently, when it came to these incentives, I was talking about the descending corn, about the incentives raised to 2600 and then reduced by 1000 kuna, and normally in such a relationship when someone approaches a business and when counting on a particular asset, we are talking about government incentives here, that then it can't be changed every 5 or 6 months. This is exactly the part of the non-payment that will create a debt relationship between these farmers who count on them, and these debts will be linked to the manufacturer's instructions in this sense that they simply will not want them and give them anymore. The second is the issue of debt related to the state according to various activities. One of those is, say, veterinary. We have here concretely that certain safeguards of the state are prescribed to protect people and animals from certain vaccinations to deratiation, etc., and at the same time jobs are carried out, and these funds are not regularly paid. Normally, even such a significant service creates major problems, so I say I had the opportunity to see that these debts are very high, and at the same time that they too cannot meet those basic needs of their own for the purchase of medicines or some other means. And finally, we see the issue in the economy, and even in these discussions, there have already been speeches, that this problem has escalated so much that we have cases of road searches present on how to get these funds that are normally done, earned and all. It is precisely these roads often associated with corrupt activities. There was just talk of often having to be given a certain amount of money, a certain percentage to get paid for the job you've earned. I think there's a special relationship between the state and the business or the economy that works with the state where often the saying if you have someone there, then you're going to charge it easier or I don't know how. And that's exactly why you would end up supporting these conclusions that are in this interpretation that have been made. The question means the settlement of liabilities from the State budget and state institutions within 30 days and state and public undertakings within 60 days. I think it's one of the important things that the funds that are now probably moving in some other streams would return to economic flows and thus create one legal basis to earn everything that's been done in order to settle it in the form of those funds that need to be paid for the job that's been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48834	Thank you. We have replicas. Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48835	Thank you very much. Well, here's a chance to hear 27 billion that they're unsettled at the end of 2009. So, fellow Bodakosh, the question is how much is it at this point and of course we don't know the true state of things. I wouldn't be replicating you right now in the sense that some club called for a debate or didn't answer for a debate. Whether he had something to say or not, but this is certainly one problem that is bothering all of us in this assembly, and certainly also in the government. So I would try to mention in this replica not only the story of how we will try or how someone should make an effort to settle these outstanding debts but how to beat up on each other's debts and claims. I think it's time for all of us to think about it and in some way to let the government, as soon as possible and in the parliamentary procedure, release the proposal for a law on multilateral compensation. And I think that would be very necessary because that would certainly contribute to a strong reduction of this indifference in the system. Of course, you're bound by all those who need to contribute. Well, if by any chance this interpretation and these conclusions were to pass in this House, I would suggest then, though I'm convinced they won't, and I would suggest point 7. I couldn't propose it because I was gone for 9 months in this House, but I would suggest a 7th point to commit the Government of the Republic of Croatia to create and refer to the Croatian Parliament within 90 days of the debate exactly this proposal to implement the obligation of multilateral compensation and to include all state-owned companies and legal and other persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48836	Thank you. Mr. Bodakosh's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48837	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Ronko, I mean this question of beating those debts. I'm saying it's certainly particularly interesting in these parts where you work with the state. This is what I mentioned in the veterinary service. Well, I've been and I've seen that many of those actions that the state itself has prescribed, I'm saying these are animal and human protective actions, that at the same time they have certain debts to I don't know the passport, etc. according to a country which must be paid. They have to pay for it. They're trying to beat each other, and at the same time they're waiting for the job they did, for the job they did, the job that gave their score. You when we talk about trichinologists, etc. on actions carried out by veterinary services and resolved certain problems that occurred and the state was ready and said it would finance it. They were doing it. But as long as they charge it for a much longer time than what they're bound to give to that state. And when they go to it and ask for a certain beating of that debt, the normal state doesn't accept it, but asks you to pay this, if you didn't pay for it go and interest goes and everything else, and the money when you get it is good when you get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48838	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48839	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you mentioned that the problem of liquidity is expressed, and in agriculture I will also say in fishing. I have several e-mails from fishermen who delivered fish to fish factories specifically about factories owned by Podravka, so for the brand Andri for brand Eva. Unfortunately, they didn't win even though they caught as much as 15% more fish than last year. They have a problem with the charge and they don't even have the fuel to move on with the fish. What we all know in Croatia and what we are all already, so I am talking about for sure for years, perhaps two years that this problem is extremely complex, Minister Schuker has decided to resolve it now with two amendments to the law. One is an amendment to the Law on the Court Register where, in his words, the biggest problem in those who have a firm when debt is reregistered continues to work, amendments to the Executive Act to facilitate the collection of claims. Of course, it would be a good thing to do that, maybe it's about time, maybe it's too late, but it would be good if Minister Schuker would accept this law that the SDP referred to the procedure and start from the state. 30 days for state budget users, 60 days for public enterprises. And it will be the best help for the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48840	Thank you. Mr. Bodakosh's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48841	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Maras normally does these problems in all branches like I said the economy in some way. It also destroys and leads to great difficulties. Normally, if someone who's done a job like you said about fishermen, who delivered that hunt and everything else to expect the result of their work, which is to be paid. It's normal and what stretches more and more. Any non-payment in this further course leads to simply the one who has worked fairly that he cannot have his basic impulses for further work. And what does it bring? It leads him to stop working, to be obliged to the one who gave him the imputations, specifically when you talked about fishing, it's fuel that's these spare parts and everything else that's going on. And at the same time he can't get his assets. Normally, in such a situation, this is exactly the conclusion that I mentioned and which you mention the issue of mandatory payments and deadlines of 30 and 60 days that it will be a painful move, but that will lead to a safer life and work in our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48842	Thank you. And the replica, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48843	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, my colleague Bodakosh, speaking of government measures to facilitate and even survive businesses and economies on these difficult occasions. I would warn of one contradiction that exists among the laws of the Croatian. This applies primarily to the general Tax Code, which in Article 118 provides for the payment of debts to companies. On the other hand, the Public Procurement Act makes it impossible for companies that thus pay off their tax debts to participate in public competitions. I warned the Government of the Republic of Croatia of this problem, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, in response to my parliamentary question, make some sort of transitional measure where it will actually solve this hole within the law itself and thus enable many companies who were unfortunately forced to pay off their tax debts to the state and allow them to survive so that they can participate in public competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48844	Thank you. Mr. Bodakosh's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48845	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Members of Mirela, normally that the marginal payment of debts is often necessary because of these situations in which these companies are located. However, we should be careful here because the question is, who is the one who can afford to pay off the dues, and who is the one who will really respect it, because often times this payment of debts in some businesses or businessmen goes on forever, or I don't say until it comes to a public bell, then it's only solved, and usually it's those who are closer to not telling the state, the government and everything else. The second issue is participation in public competitions. In particular, I think that there should be and there should be the possibility that participation in public procurements of those producers that produce products that are imported or raw materials or which have inputs for some construction or something and as a particular and wood industry normally should be made possible with a particular debt, but through such a single job they will certainly create the conditions to be able to repay those debts and also to earn something new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48846	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the motionary, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48847	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short. I would like to say that by proposing this kind of interpretation we have come from the fact that the problem of non-payment or insolvency is actually the problem of number one in the Croatian economy today. Interpellation on the work of the Government was, in fact, only able to concentrate on the part that the Government controls, which is the state budget, that is, state and public enterprises and state institutions. The government should show by its example that it is also responsible as a believer but also as a debtor. That it is not accurate information that the budget gives an up-to-date payment to the data that we have heard again from the state audit that the planned amounts are being exceeded, that certain commitments are being transferred next year. Therefore, it is not true that since there is no continuous inflow into the state budget of revenue, it is not true that it is charged on time. When we say that the government should be a responsible believer, then it would not be possible to accumulate 11 billion kunas of tax-based claims and contributions and actually not respond in time. We are constantly warning that it is not good to give out the possibility of paying off payments to wars or prolonging tax payments and contributions regulated by the annual laws on the implementation of the state budget because this can be significantly manipulated. Therefore, if the state had charged taxes and contributions more up-to-date, had it not occurred that it had accumulated 11 billion kunas or almost 50% of total unpaid liabilities at that time should not have introduced a crisis tax, it should probably not have raised the VAT rate, it should not have introduced new excise duties because this is a far larger amount than was planned to be collected annually on these three grounds. The European Union has the Financial Business Act. A little over a year ago, it was brought by the Republic of Slovenia. This law includes payment deadlines, non-payment sanctions, or overpayment deadlines, interests for overpayment deadlines are fixed, enforcement is regulated and bankruptcy is regulated. When we talk about dealings and bankruptcy, the entrepreneurs don't want to go on forced charge because this procedure takes a long time and often the debtor tells him, so sues me, and then I'll eventually pay you in five or six years when the verdict comes. Unfortunately, we still have a situation in the state that there is more protection of debtors than creditors and it does not facilitate business but favours fraud, corruption and why not tell at the end and theft. If someone buys goods they know in advance that they won't pay for it and what else it is, they're actually cheating and stealing and that's how they should be sanctioned. And I would eventually like to say something that he encouraged in his replica of co-worker or in correcting the quote of counterpart Maric. Well, you know who the biggest debtors in the country are. They are grouped into four activities and these four activities have a total of 83% outstanding liabilities. It's a 35.5% trade, processing industry with 22.6, construction with 13.8 and real estate and rental and business services 11.3%. If the state is a believer in 50% of these claims, then it knows exactly what commercial houses are, which are processing companies, which are builders who do not pay on time their obligations. That this amount of 27.1 billion kunas of outstanding liabilities at the 12th month of last year actually represents only the tip of the ice santa, actually tells us that we don't have any records that are actual mutual debts and claims between economic operators. And that's the problem that sooner or later, they're going to scream out because companies like that don't pay, not only don't pay taxes and contributions, they don't pay salaries. These people will be coming to the stock market tomorrow, they're not getting paid for either pension or health contributions. The question is how they will exercise health and pension rights based on pension and health insurance if they are not subject to obligations even if they have received some minimum salaries. And in the end, I'll do it again. In his report on this interpretation, the government is talking about a new uniform arrangement of the enforcement system for forced collection. If this makes it possible to charge faster and more up-to-date for business entities, this will mean, in fact, the first step in reducing or liquidating inflation. A new single regulation of business share records should also be in this direction, but we must say that this is not enough and that other measures should be taken and not only in this legislative sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48848	Thank you. A representative of the government? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48849	We move on to the Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the role of the Republic of Croatia to create conditions for reducing in liquidity in the system. Proposer: 27 representatives of SDP's Club of Representatives. The debate is closed. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "The Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to create conditions for reducing indifference in the system." I am voting on the proposal for a finalisation of the Government. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The government's proposal was accepted by 77 votes in favour, nothing abstentioned and 36 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48850	We move to the 11th item of the agenda - Interpelation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the management and control of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia Proposer: 20 representatives of the SDP Club of Representatives. The representatives of the Croatian Parliament submitted this interpretation on the basis of Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. Do the proposing representatives want to show themselves? Does the proposaler's representative want to say a few words? Dear Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP advocates' club has led to the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the management and control of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia as second today on the agenda, and I hope it will give a little more attention to the ruling side because this is about another burning problem that has been manifesting in Croatia, especially in the past few years. First of all, why did we refer this interpretation? Because we believe that companies in which the Republic of Croatia has either ownership or majority share are not properly managed. It is property of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, property of the Republic of Croatia which must provide services. Some of them will go of course to be privatised, but they must provide services to citizens at favourable prices, quality services and ultimately have an efficient business and do not be burdened by Croatian citizens through the budget of the Republic of Croatia. What we've assessed in the interpretation is that we're not satisfied with business operations. The data here that have been analyzed is 2007 and 2008. The figures in 2007 say that these companies, i.e. selected public enterprises, 22 made a profit of 1.6 billion kuna. But of course it must be taken into account that these same companies also received 2.9 billion kuna donations from the state budget, specifically HZ and some others. So it cost Croatian citizens a billion and 300 million kuna. Is that justifiable, is it an efficient business in these companies? We don't think so. The result was even worse next year. This time 21 companies were analysed because INA fell out of that society because the state and ownership and the state's influence fell below 50%. But those 21 companies did business with approximately 387 million kuna profits, which is 1.3 billion less than last year, with INA having lost nearly a billion kuna that year. So, if INA were counted in that story, and we have to say that in INA all of 2008, it means half of 2008 Croatia had a majority impact and that in the first half of the year it was the chairman of the Supervisory Board, which was Damir Polancec, and in the second half of the year, i.e. Ivan Schuker, and in the second half of the year was Damir Polancec. So, she had a Croatian influence. This would mean that that year, the same 22 companies achieved a loss of about 600 million kuna, with the donation of 2 billion kuna and some billion kuna, again, of course. So, this time, these companies cost the Croatian budget and Croatian citizens about 3 billion kuna. And is that objective and is it really justified in this way to touch these companies saying many of the affairs that we are witnessing in those companies that are most donating. HH from furnished jobs, competitions, tragedies, inefficient management, arrival on site through recommendations without any qualifications, management salaries, 400 management salaries in such a company that is being touched from the state budget, etc. Other companies have also marked, I would say, many corruption affairs, irregularities, illegalities. It would indicate HEP, which was mentioned in the previous debate by one of the main indifference generators in Croatia, but whose shift of management just happened because of many illegal actions, but was previously appointed by the chairman of the Supervisory Board as the chairman of the administration. So whoever was supposed to oversee this work and who was supposed to control and avoid illegality in the company became the new chairman of the administration. By the way, he never had an excessive experience in energy and that is one indicator of how and how Croatian companies are managed. HEP, one of the most important Croatian companies, is probably given the political recommendation, as man is a prominent HDZ official and has never worked in energy. The president of the HEP administration. On the other hand, neither did he have any special internship as manager of any other large corporation company or anything like that. On the other hand, we hear the expressive support of the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the need to remove politicians from the supervisory committees, that politicians and politicians have nothing to do in public enterprises, and this message is happening, so much about consistency, one day before the cabinet's meeting for supervisors, or members of the supervisory committees in the INA, the prime minister proposed by Minister Suker, Minister Ivic and Minister Pankretic. So one day earlier, the prime minister said that we would take the politicians out of the board of directors and then, in INA, three members of the government proposed to the government and set it up. I'm not going to mention a recent case where another prime minister's office official has been placed in the FINA Supervisory Board, what again says there's no serious will to do anything. Another reason why we think that there is simply no will to do anything there is the proposal to amend the Law on State officials where no procedure has been put in two readings, but simply wait with procedure, or to combine one reading rather than to wait with another reading. And ultimately, the supervisory boards will be elected who knows when in public competitions and politicians will most likely, and even until the next elections will be set up in supervisory committees and will oversee these companies there. As they monitor enough talks today and the State Audit report. We've seen nine analysis companies owned by the state. No company received unconditional opinion, but they all got a conditional opinion. And here I'm interested in, there's a number of people and members of the supervisory board that they're based on that report, because they had to get anything done in these years and a half. I'm pretty sure they didn't. And because of everything we've stated in our interpretation, we're proposing the following conclusions. The first conclusion is that it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the operations of the companies covered by this interpretation within 60 days, and to submit the report at the debate in the Croatian Parliament. On the other hand, it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to draw up a report from the congregations of the companies covered by this impellate operation for the next three years and to re-send it to the Croatian Assembly on the basis of these plans annually. In the next 90 days, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should analyse the work of the supervisory boards of public enterprises and make changes where supervisory committees did not carry out their work quality. We do not necessarily require that they be public tenders, because we believe that the state must have responsibilities in one way or another to put the best people in those bodies in order to protect and protect state property. We also ask that the Government of the Republic of Croatia be tasked with asking within a year at the latest the Supervisory Boards to consider public procurement for administrations because this is what we consider necessary and is trying in our opinion to draw attention to the supervisory boards, and the administrations will continue to be appointed in the way it has been appointed so far. I said what was the case in HEP, but also in all other companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. Croatia's insurance is one of the same examples of what is called a party man, and then it is moved, because it is quarreled within its party, etc. We think that this practice should stop and that public competitions should be called. What we also consider and ask to be done, we are aware of the fact that public companies are making big traffic but are not obliged and subject to public audits every year. We ask that all companies with a turnover of more than 50 million kuna be subject to a review every year and that this specific audit is directed to the Croatian Assembly because we have an illogical situation, which is to control the municipalities from the turnover of millions of kunas each year, and companies that carry out billions of kunas of transport are not subject to any control or control. They're subject to, it's true, you can report for correction of an incorrect quote, but that's true. They've got surveillance companies, but we've seen how they work. The audit goes through a program and a plan that could be that within five years, a company that makes three billion kunas of traffic will not enter. I believe and we believe that it must be controlled every year. And there would certainly be less malfeasance and less trouble with these companies. Perhaps even fewer people would be in Remetic today if these companies were more adequately controlled. Between them and Podravka and those who are now mentioned. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adopt criteria for each company in the majority state ownership or ownership of the Republic of Croatia's funds on the basis of which salaries will be determined in a particular state-owned undertaking, taking into account the competitiveness of companies on the market, business results, and business rationalisation. We absolutely believe that in Croatian railways with such donations there must not be 400 managerial contracts, that there are so many companies in Holding, so many managers that the results are so bad. But we also believe that if a company is elected in a public tender, if the person taking over the company has the result, the program, the references and everything that should be for the manager of a company that manages billions of kunas each year, it must be adequately paid. This does not mean that it must have a salary of 12,000 kuna or 13,000 kuna, if it will benefit that instead of the state losing 3 billion kuna per year, to make it receive 3 billion kuna per year that system among these 22 public companies normally that managers must be adequately rewarded. But then we have to say good-bye to party staffing and it should be done because one party must not get in Leno Croatia insurance, another Croatian forest, Croatian water and thus manage the property. And then, of course, the problem is what the results are. If Croatian citizens and the Croatian public saw that these companies were doing well, to achieve results, to have a quality service there would certainly be no problem with someone getting paid at the level of what is being paid and on the market. Finally, we are in charge of the Parliament and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia to check regularly all indications that could refer to illegalities in the work of public companies. We think there's a lot of things so far I'd say stored in a drawer. Cases haven't been open for a very long time. The example of Brodosplit, which unfortunately seems to be traveling towards antiquity, because it was reluctant to investigate with the initiative even Interpol and international, the police of other countries. In the end, there was no will to investigate the matter to the end and to drive the matter out into the open. What we are asking is that the Ministry of the Interior regularly does its job and sends a report to the Parliament to see that it is actually accomplished. So a whole series of conclusions that we think must be made, because the situation in public enterprises is disastrous in our position. Companies do bad business, businesses have too many employees, fictitious employees. They filled the offices with people who came in with all kinds of connections. In many cases, there are that people do not even come to work, and they are paid, partyly appointed so that justifiably Croatian citizens wonder why they would pay a higher price of heat, electricity and other things when HEP does not operate rationally and could do more rational business and thus provide a cheaper service to Croatian citizens. This situation is in all companies, i.e. in the vast majority of companies – HZ, Croatian road not to mention the names now. That is why we ask that the Croatian Parliament adopt these conclusions in order to improve the situation in these companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48852	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48853	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct my colleague, Maras, who is known in the SDP as an economic analyst. Well, my colleague, I'd have corrected you if you hadn't said exactly about the audit reports. Every medium-sized enterprise, and especially a large one, is obliged to present audit reports, and also, why the state should be. Well, in medium and large companies, audit firms are tasked with making audits every year, so let the same report be sent to the FINAs and commercial banks. Therefore, I see no reason for what additional audit report you need, if this is already settled legally. And so, every medium and large enterprise every year is obliged to do an audit report. Please don't constantly deceive the public, and at the same time you're showing up as an economic analyst, and you don't know the most basic thing. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48854	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, you must say what.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48855	Articles 209 and 210 have been injured. So Mr. Lucic didn't hear what I was saying. I said I'm looking for that state. It's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he wasn't correcting my allegations, because I didn't say that state-owned companies don't have to do audits.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48856	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48857	I'm saying that state review... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48858	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48859	What do you mean, it's not?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48860	Well, you know it's not and don't use it all the time. You're otherwise known as the man who keeps using that institute wrongly injures the Rules of Procedure. Don't do that. Please stop doing this. Maybe it's funny for you at the club, but it'd be nice if you guys warned him about it. Come on, the government was pretty clear about this impelation. Is there anything anyone would like to say on behalf of the government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'll say if there's any need or no, or a representative of the government. Don't be. Don't throw it away. It's a good thing it's a good atmosphere, but let's do some serious work. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48861	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate. This correction of the incorrect quote of fellow Lucic is the whole story about whether we need an audit, should not, when we need, who is in charge, who is not in charge, confirm one of our practices, which is a satisfactory form, and the real truth is revealed in Remitinc. In fact, this interpretation submitted by fellow representatives from the SDP Club on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the management and control of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia requires, in my opinion, very reasonable conclusions from the whole series, that I do not now list them, we are familiar with them all, and I do not see why and why, why and why the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to reject the interpretation, in other words and these conclusions on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the management and control of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. So the government rejects the conclusions of the Parliament, which at this time and at this time were initiated by colleagues from the SDP club and by the interpellation, because other possibilities were not to be discussed on the subject. It rejects the conclusions, the conclusions that enable the system of business, the system of management of public goods, because public enterprises are lords of public good, public enterprises are also formed to provide public service to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to give me the first information for this system for which the note is not available thanks to media representatives and we in the Croatian Parliament and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I just want to believe that the government is in the same position as we representatives in the Croatian Parliament to find out about something through the media. I just want to believe that the truth is known, but it's being silenced, it's hiding, so when the media finds it, then the whole system starts, the control system and all the other days are percentages. The government simply refuses the possibility to conduct a comprehensive analysis of business, public enterprises, and that is the government's obligation, and they have it. The government has it. Because every year, the government discusses the business of public companies and, as a rule, at a closed session. It means something he doesn't want to share with us at the Croatian Parliament. The government refuses that, if it is in charge of parliaments, companies covered by this interpretation, that of these congregations, of these supervisory committees of the Government, and through the Government and in the Croatian Parliament, we get information, because first of all, the government is the information for the government, for us in the Croatian Parliament as information, the basis for discussion, the possibility that as representatives of the public, and at this moment we are the only public representative, because, besides the president of the state, only representatives in the Croatian Parliament are elected directly by the citizens, so also the Government of the Republic of Croatia informs the Croatian public which are the objectives of the business plan of a particular public company. That's the possibility the government refuses. The government is refusing to perform an analysis of the work of the supervisory boards. I don't see why. I simply don't see a excessive, reasonable and logical reason why the government refuses to make an analysis, in fact it doesn't reject that possibility, so I want to believe it and do it, but it refuses the possibility of informing the Croatian Parliament about it, it rejects that possibility. There's probably a reason. Whether the government will call a public tender for members of the administration, not the Government, but the Supervisory Board, and the Supervisory Board is appointed by the Government. Whether these supervisory boards will call public companies to tender for members of the board of directors in public enterprises, we will not know the same, as the government refuses to do so. My colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about public enterprises, we're talking about 76, and over 76, 70,000 employees. I have 76 data relating to 2007. Did something happen in the meantime hard to tell me, but let's say over 70,000 employees. But no matter how much, it's a huge number. Public companies, public companies with their total income of almost 9% of the total income of all economic operators in this country, we are talking about public enterprises that are on an annual basis from the state budget, meaning taxpayers' money gets more than 2.5% of the total state budget. We are talking about public companies in which participation pays, in their total costs is about 16 and a half percent based on the value of 2007, how hard it is for me to say today, but that analysis we at the Croatian People's Party club have. We are talking about public companies where, according to the 2007 data, participation in the care of 23% of the total fund of hours or better said somewhere around 17,000 employees in public enterprises is on sick leave throughout the year, not working, receiving compensation unlike the real sector where participation in sick leave is 12%. In public companies, 24%, in the real sector it's 12%. We at the HNS Club have referred to the Croatian Parliament, exactly a year ago, here is a little more, a few days ago, 17.02. a conclusion with which the Government of the Republic of Croatia would commit to that information about the business of public companies that it normally discusses, I repeat, at a closed session, that it is forwarded to the Croatian Parliament and that in the Croatian Parliament we have the opportunity to talk, hear, first of all, hear this information and give their opinion on the success of the business of public companies that are in the function of satisfying public function. The government has rejected that attitude as well. Last year, a debate was held in the Croatian Parliament on this conclusion and normally in line with the government's view not to inform the Croatian Parliament and representatives of the Croatian Parliament on the business of public enterprises and the representatives of the majority supported the conclusion that the government, in fact, supported the government's refusal to accept such a conclusion and normally did not pass and the Croatian Parliament did not have the opportunity to discuss a subject called the business of public enterprises. I also want to remind you, and this is what we said very clearly when we discussed this conclusion, at the HNS club. And that is that in the theory the public element in the business of public enterprises is contained in 3 points. The first is that the most important business decisions are made by the state as owner. Government of the Republic of Croatia through the supervisory committees appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Winning, or losing, is another element. The profits, i.e. the losses of business through the state budget, belong to the entire community. If public companies earn profits through the state budget, that is the income of all citizens of this country. If they are creating a loss that is the loss of all citizens of this country and that element of the public we are not prepared to share here in the Croatian Parliament, we are not. And by rejecting the government on this proposal the conclusions formed by the interpretation of colleagues from the SDP's Club of Representatives. And thirdly very important, the public enterprise is responsible for its business throughout society, i.e. Parliament as the ultimate guardian of public interest. But Parliament, and this is when this issue was discussed, I repeat, it was 01.04.2009, on the proposal of the conclusion of the HNS Club, did not get that opportunity, the possibility to discuss, get information, and we do not even need to discuss it, but at least to get one quality information. Not to read the information from the daily press, from the media of any electronics, but to get information here in the Croatian Parliament. That information that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is discussing, I repeat, as a rule, at a closed session. And that's why I think the rejection of the initiative is, I understand that because of politics, mutual muscle strengthening, party muscle strengthening, for pragmatic reasons, there is no political pragmatic reason to discuss anything. But when we talk about a public enterprise and at the previous point, we all agreed together on several very clear and important elements. And the previous point is directly tied to this point. I simply do not see a reasonable decision why and why it is not possible for the Croatian Parliament to get information and get very concrete and that the Government of the Republic is in charge of public enterprises to go through the Government, I will forget that third element of the public, through the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public, public companies inform the Croatian public about their intentions, their responsibility because they rule with national treasures, our common assets and what is very important for us to stress the efficient business of certain public enterprises to a significant extent also define the sovereignty of our country. To a significant extent, they define the sovereignty of our country, the real one, not formal but real. And that is why I believe that if, just because the opposition has proposed certain conclusions to the interpretation, and on this basis, these conclusions cannot be accepted, which we in the club of the CNS support, we expect in time before us that the Government will still come to this Parliament with information on the business of public companies. It doesn't matter in any way at all, but just let it be a way to get information in time before that information comes from Remetinco. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48862	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48863	Here, Mr. Vice President, I must correct the incorrect assumption that the real truth comes to us exclusively from Remetinco which is not true. We in the Parliament have, on several occasions, discovered what the real truth is. Although for incomprehensible reasons a 3.4 year ago, the Committee on a former minister revealed the true truth. And for my own incomprehensible reasons again, he didn't end up in Remetic, which might be good for the CNS because he would be beheaded otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48864	Dear Representative Koračević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48865	I am simply correcting the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, in fact, my colleague Markovanovic injured Article 209 and 210 and all those articles that are related to the whole story. Both you personally and everyone else in the phonogram can be checked whether I said what my colleague Markovanovic was correcting, and related to Cacic's relationship with HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48866	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and it's not a topic of discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48867	I refer to the presentation of my colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48868	This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and please say that sentence, it's fixed. And please don't do that, because that's what you all do personally. Don't do that. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48869	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Are our state-owned companies wholly owned or owned by a majority or part of the company NN, an unlimited liability society? Or societies are what they need to be, why they are founded and for whose consequences, or whose business they are not eligible for, or those who lead, but for all the citizens of this country. Therefore, the SDP club considers that it is necessary to open the debate and to draw certain conclusions which are drawn here in the interpretation and cited in relation to the business and the supervision of the business of companies, state-owned companies or majority state-owned enterprises. Which is why we feel it is necessary to do so and why we are really surprised why the Government headed by Mrs. Kosor's prime minister refuses to do so. How many times are we listening here but it's probably just booked for the current morning, don't criticise, suggest something, help. As a responsible opposition and we suggest, we criticise, we're tough enough to keep doing it, but we're also suggesting who would mind and who's in the interest of not actually opening the accounts? Or we think that we should simply be a bank of pigs and pay for all those marifetteluks that are now retreating and pulling through our courts. So, first of all, we consider it because of the nature of the business that they deal with is the primary task of these companies. In view of the activity carried out primarily on energy, the infrastructure. Therefore, they must not only be able to simply these companies and must be drivers of development above all and due to the lack of domestic energy sources, i.e. building infrastructure, which is primarily not only roads, highways, but railways, gasification, irrigation, draining, which is, above all, the key investments that are normally run by the state and not private initiatives, not private companies because they have a long return on funds. The story unfortunately, therefore, ignores this problem. Let the State's Attorney's office investigate it, some courts, but that's part of the problem, that's the most responsible part. Penalty is the most important part of responsibility. There's a lot wider. Political responsibility, civil responsibility for what we are primarily in charge. So, unfortunately, the story of our state-owned companies is basically about one government, the story of policy collapse. How were our companies doing? That's what we get with a bunch of letters. People who came from the beginning a few years ago while Prime Minister Sanader was not convicted of the consequences of signing. The instructions are correct. So these are insiders people who work there not some random passersby. And people didn't just happen to come. But who still felt that conscience and conscience of their profession, no matter who hired them to talk about how millions of girls were hired somewhere, by people whose godfathers, whose relatives, on whose lines, almost drew the scheme. So that's the story of essentially through companies this we see exactly owned by the state of this company we see essentially how much politics is being broken down. Is it finally time for these consequences to be remedied by state institutions and that we here have so much power for one political consensus that we say a lot, that these companies can't figure or be self-services from which they're being drawn and later by the state? The citizens are resuscitating these deficits. That they're places for the likes of them, not the capable ones. That they're just not places that are reserved to call them so for the Mandarin oligarchy. The question is, therefore, whether these people who were supposed to be the most responsible are in fact well tailored and tailors of Croatian doom and we should simply stop them, because the measures the government is using or wants to use is how much more they will use, or how much they will cost in relation to what damage it will prevent the damage that threatens. If you really don't understand this, as the most appropriate and as some new measures and as an incentive to add everything you need to stop with this way. Because through this kind of irresponsible behavior, it's essentially perception of the hair itself. And certainly not all of them are the same, that there are companies that do well and companies that do well and certainly people who are consciously doing their job. Therefore, putting everyone in the same basket would be a great injustice and means that we have raised our hand from identifying responsibility. So it's really strange that this government report responds to our interpretation where it essentially deals with some numbers, says something,... often does not unconcerned with what is being sought here. In this way, the government uses a lot of energy to create an illusion. And that's one big mistake here repeats and continues to develop Prime Minister Kosor, how to make the best impression, how to create the impression that everything is done. We often hear everything the government does and we haven't heard it say anything then we don't hear anything. Name two, three measures, that's enough. No, the government does everything. And the government refuses this. So, she's basically doing what? She's fighting facts and hiding facts and fighting facts can benefit for a very short period and then eventually again someone else will come and say we've been putting things under the carpet and we're all here or they're all here somewhere. Therefore, such stories obviously no longer pass away, but they will no longer be able to pass with all the favors and patience of our citizens. Therefore, we must really ask ourselves through these companies Croatian where your disease comes from. So the question here and the responsibility of the Government is a direct responsibility of the Government because the government has rejected the further proposal of our two, three times, those famous 2003 Penal Code novels when we well defined economic incriminations specifically designed for management structures, for criminal responsibility of management structures in the company and, above all, members of the boards of directors and supervisors, regardless of what the responsibility exists, but in the Commercial Society Act. But then it would be true and transparently defined, it wouldn't happen that often politically then some processes are understood because we really have cases of identical behaviour in certain companies whether they own states or units of local self-government being, subject to criminal responsibility or at least persecution, we'll see how in some cases they're going to come about and somewhere it's a perfectly logical business issue. And I wonder why the government refuses. Now we hear the answers already that there's an amendment to the Penal Code on that trail. But was it supposed to wait seven years? We would have it in place and, of course, things would certainly and differently work although the law is not a detergent, it washes itself, so it should be used and had, above all, the political will to do so. So here's why I don't owe it to our public anymore because the SDP so strangely and so excessively seeks and the government refuses to consider it immaterial. So we're looking for a comprehensive analysis of business operations, we're looking for supervision of the work of the supervisory boards of public enterprises, which doesn't have to be a direct criminal responsibility, but in any case, it's a responsibility for work. Will we continue to cherish the cult of irresponsibility, therefore, responsible for everything responsible for nothing. We ask quite justifiably for the government to be in charge and to assign the supervisory boards to hold public tenders for members of the public office and to promise ultimately, to carry out what she has promised, which was both the main and basic idea of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. True, it's always said when people of government's trust are being placed, then it's said, so it's normal that it's state-owned, that the government is responsible for them and that it's setting them up. And that really holds the water, but then when the traps around the kind of person who did that and the government tells us we have nothing to do with it. Yes, in ancient Rome there was at least that mistake in choosing "error in engrendo", but obviously we are far away, far from responsibility. I think this is a chance for the government to show that she's become responsible, not just for the raid, and not just in the speeches about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48870	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48871	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, a respected secretary of state with a colleague, an esteemed colleague and colleague. So it's understandable to care for companies that have a total share capital of $58 billion 428 million, of which there are only 16 billion 422 million in the government portfolio. There is probably not one responsible politician or person who doesn't care about these state-owned companies doing business as effectively as possible with increased profitability, as business as possible and with as little speculation and possible irregularities. Of course those companies, as we've heard here, shouldn't be self-serving, that's correct. counterpart Anticevic said the government usually says it does everything and then turns out to be doing nothing. So give me at least two measures of what the government did. I don't want two, I'll say a little more, three, four. First, if anything is done in the care of state-owned enterprises, then more in the last six months has been done than in the last ten years. Is that enough or isn't it going to show up, but it's certainly more than in the last ten years. Finally, an order was given to act rationally on all segments in all societies, to save at all possible levels. What we mentioned here most often today, giving orders to state-owned enterprises that they have to stick to the payment deadline of up to 60 days and the latest report says that within 57 days, deadlines have been paid. Also, 4% and 2% of revenues have increased. This means that income increases faster than expenditures resulting in higher profits. The government has also given a warrant to all members of the supervisory boards for fees of 2 thousand kuna. The government also made a recommendation that no member of the administration, no salary can have more net than 17 thousand kuna, although we have made it easy to say here that in HZ there is some information about 400 management contracts. I don't know how many there are because there's no official information, so I wouldn't use any information, but I'm sure they're gone. There is no salary in HZ over 17 thousand kunas, but we also know that in many state-owned enterprises, up to only five months back, there were losers in salary managements from 50 to 60 thousand kuna net. And who stopped it, who changed it? It's this government. There are concrete measures she's done. Says colleague Maras, we're paying the electricity to HEP more expensive than we should. The average cost of electricity consumption per household, believe it or not, is 7 kuna a day, and also colders and TVs and washing machines and irons are used and I don't know what not. And only an average daily household spends 35 kunas on mobile phones. On a cell phone seven times more than the cost of total household electricity. So much for the price of electricity. We heard here that the government is holding back while the law is passed that state officials can't be on the boards of directors, that at the same time appoint Minister Shuker as INA's Supervisory Board. And until this law comes into force, who should protect the national interests of a state-owned company? Maybe even that former Dean of the Faculty of Economics, we know wherever he was, it wasn't great. So who better to protect by that time than the Minister of Finance? So were the politicians in the Supervisory Boards of Podravka, Rijeka Bank, Glumina Bank, 1987, Adriatica.neta, Kia, Pana, and these companies ended infamously, the other large debtors. This interpretation is unacceptable to the HDZ club because it comes just at a time when the biggest activities are taken for the better and more efficient business of state-owned enterprises. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports the government's proposal not to accept or to reject the interpretation of the SDP Representatives' Club on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the management and control of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. And you've seen for yourself, we've witnessed that and what you've mentioned fictitious jobs, that this government has taken all the steps to eliminate them and they've been fired, that those who have proven to be incompetent managers have been removed, and because of the increased attention they'll still be under a bigger window and I think they'll be much more quality and more efficient in managing state-owned enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48872	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48873	counterpart Maric says there is no man who does not want public businesses to operate well and that is an incorrect allegation. There is, there is, fellow Maric. One person certainly doesn't want it, it's the Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. I see her signature here on the proposal that the interpretation be rejected. It's not just her, it's the whole government because it's a proposal to reject this interpretation certified by the stamp of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But it's not just the Prime Minister or the Government, it's you, Mr. Maric, and your entire HDZ club, on whose behalf you've now spoken, which suggests that this interpretation be rejected... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48874	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48875	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary. Here are just a few short observations after the opening presentation of club representatives. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, counterpart Maric pointed out some of the things the government has done last year. We at the SDP Representatives' Club absolutely do not believe that it is positive that the government has reduced fees to 2000 kuna, and on the other hand that members of supervisory boards receiving 2000 kuna are still justified every month that they know nothing about business processes within their companies. So is it that the government reduces to 2000 kuna or to 500 kuna compensation or that the fee does not exist at all, is it an excuse that members of the Supervisory Board must do their job in the way many of them have done? So you have examples, colleagues and colleagues, board members who said they had no idea anything about the transactions worth billions of kunas within their companies that were to be monitored. A billion kunas. So what do such supervisory committees even monitor? I really don't know. Did the board member just turn into a sense of having some influence to neglect two people to take those 2,000 kunas or 3,000 kunas without knowing anything about business. Is someone receiving 2,000 kuna now less than before when there were 4 or 6000 kuna? It means there's nothing to ask when he gets information about the company's bad business. It's being imposed from that attitude because of what I said. Based on these 9 State Audit reports, the Supervisory Boards have not taken much. Moreover, even some people have made progress from the Croatian roads to the Croatian highways, etc. So, the fact is that it stands out as some great success of government is not good. A reduction in the fee does not mean that if you reduce the fee you justify someone for a liability or a failure to conduct business. On the other hand, you're saying that in the last six months, more rational management has begun than in the last ten years. Okay, but for the last six years HDZ and this government has a responsibility for these companies. Why in the last six months? It simply cannot be an excuse in this way simply to admit that it has not been rationally done in the last nine and a half years, if something concrete has been done in the last six years. You're saying pay doesn't need to be mentioned at the end of the day. HH – the average salary in HZ is 8800 kn. This number of managerial contracts does not mean that the manager's contract is not more than €17000. They've got people 14, 15. But they also have 24 months' severances, 12 months' worth. We are witnesses in all public enterprises, people who sometimes had to be fired under suspicious circumstances had the right to severance. Here at HEP's former administration, everyone has a right to severance because of what we've changed them for doing untransparently, for keeping a man and a lot of other things, to share apartments, to hold a man without working and receiving pay, but they have the right to severance. These are managerial contracts, and on those management contracts, I said there were absolutely a lot of them in HZ. You're saying who better to protect than the Minister of Finance? It can even hold water. But from a spokeswoman or a deputy spokeswoman of the government, it's hard to believe that she knows the issue of FINA best, and she was appointed ten days ago to the FINA Supervisory Board. So, I would like what the prime minister announces in her debate to be consistent and respected. If you want to tell the Croatian public that politicians have nothing to look for on the supervisory boards, perhaps the minister in this transitional period and you can push through. But an official in his office who never had anything to do with any business of the FINA and then put him on the board of directors, is very difficult to justify in any way. In the end, whether the transition period will be short or long. What we in the SDP say is that it seems to us that this initiative is not in some way sincere and that it is with a fig in its pocket. Because if it wanted to, everything could have been done in two, three months. There is no need to stretch two readings, three readings until the next election move the board of supervisory boards of public firms under the Law on State Officials to cement those elected. And of course they'll be chosen by politics again. He doesn't have to be a minister, but he'll be chosen by politics. So, in some ways, there's no way for me and for us at the Club of Representatives of the SDP's sincere intentions, but it's simply a matter of directing the public's attention as something seems. We want to, we'll do it, but nobody knows how or when. Unfortunately, here and even a few days after what this initiative has been up to, it immediately acts the opposite way. So the HDZ Representatives' Club would be good to accept this interpretation for what it would really be, and the government would be good to accept it, but we can see that it isn't, because then they would really prove that you have genuine intentions about politics in public enterprises, not to direct public attention. And in the end, not to do what's most important. And the most important thing is to call public tenders for corporate administrations, because the corporate administrations run these companies on a daily basis. This we do not know whether, by chance or intentionally, we have forgotten in all these government initiatives, because the Supervisory Board is overseeing the company in the name of the assembly. The assembly is politics. He can be like this or like that, you can put a better or worse man. But the administrations sign the contract, have a certain mandate, and of course they should be put to choose in public tenders. I've never heard of it since Prime Minister Kosor, nor before any debate on behalf of HDZ. Unfortunately, we see things happening now in state-owned companies, that people are finally changing, that people are being brought back to the most responsible places. And in some ways it strengthens us in the belief that this is just a distraction, not an honest desire. If there was a sincere desire to fix these things, we would support this interpretation, because there's absolutely nothing wrong with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48876	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48877	Thank you very much. So here's what MP Maras said about commenting that the government is doing something with a figure in its pocket, that it has launched an initiative in the direction of amending the law that officials can no longer be on supervisory boards, that is to say, to choose a contest, and that it acts the opposite immediately within three days. No, the government is acting according to the existing law. Therefore, the missing member of the Supervisory Board is elected by, or appointed by, the procedure as the current law states. The initiative has been launched. The law is under procedure before this Amending Parliament, and when the law is passed, the Government will then act according to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48878	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's the honorary representative of Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48879	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's the honorary representative of Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48880	Thank you. And now, as usual, we have a replica series. Who's to whom, but to their own. First of all, the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48881	So when we're alone in the hall, then we have to ourselves, right? You tell your colleague Stazić, or in your discussion, you talk about the responsibility, or irresponsibility of the Government, and you say that management of affairs and supervision is treated as an election prey. It could therefore be agreed with regard to how administrations and supervisory committees are appointed. But you can see when we come to Parliament and government we take an oath and say that we will work in accordance with the Constitution. And what does the Constitution say about ownership? Article 48 of the Constitution in paragraph 2 states that the ownership is binding. Owners of ownership and their users are obliged to contribute to the general good. How do these state-owned companies contribute to the common good? So that the responsible owner, represented by the Government, sets goals, determines politics, sets up a programme administration, plans to realise such a business policy, then has responsible supervisors overseeing how these policies and plans are achieved. If that were the case then our state-owned companies would be big investors, say, HEP in energy, we wouldn't be importers dependent on energy imports, not paying expensive energy, not paying the most expensive electricity in the market when it's gone. These companies would not make losses, they might not only invest but also contribute to the state budget because they would pay higher taxes. People would have higher wages and cheaper energy, etc. That would be if we stick to the Constitution and the provisions that property commits. So, he doesn't just commit private owners, he also commits to the state. And the personification of the state is government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48882	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48883	You have described colleagues Zgrebec from this perspective in fact an ideal picture, and should be a real and normal picture of the relationship to the public good. According to what is worth belonging to all the citizens of this country. But my dear colleague Zgrebec, in the same sentence to speak of a responsible relationship to public property and mention this government, means actually to say a contradiction and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48884	Thank you. We have a replica of the distinguished MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48885	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, who is here and here, even though my colleague Stazic spoke, so you have shown your self-awareness and responsibility towards duty and that courage, unlike those who often behave as subjects, not as state officials. I would like to replicate my esteemed colleague Stazic, who has noticed by who knows how many times and wondering why the government doesn't react when we're looking for something quite normal, when we're looking for something so verbal, even if it wasn't for these proposals very concrete, the government would even say it in principle. So he mentions this horrible case where a man is formally just a felony, to feed a 2-month-old baby into a pharmacy. There's no crime! It's an emergency! Because when you have the case of the "Croatian Post Bank" which the state did not react or monitor in time, where the purchase loans were made, not for production, not for investment, but for speculative things, for the purchase of shares. There's a backlog, and then this one's trading some stock in Montenegro. So what kind of crazy private bank would give that money? And the government doesn't think he's responsible. So who set that person up? So it's obviously a matter of system, not of some excess that the government gets away from here and there. So it turns out once again that it's as useless as it's expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48886	The first thing you said about me staying here is my duty and I'm gonna stay, and whether someone else needs to stay or not is his will. Therefore, you do not need to pay attention to them or object to them. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48887	Dear colleagues, first of all, as far as those who left are concerned. You know, they think the truth they don't hear is not true. It's such a one-thinking thing. But let us leave them well in their logic and in their reach of mind. Let me get back to your replica. You're saying the government isn't responding. It's not true. The government isn't responding. The government is responding, loud and clear. A request is rejected for public companies to operate for the benefit of the community. That request is denied. So isn't that a reaction? It's a very clear reaction. The government has made it clear what they won't do. A request to cease employment on the party key is denied. And that's a no. I agree with you that this isn't a turnout, that this isn't controversial. I agree with you that's the system. It's a system that's been going on since this government came to power. First under Sanader and now under Jadranka Kosor. Nothing's changed about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48888	Okay, well, if you don't see I can't help you. Let's move on. Honorable representative Gordan Maras, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48889	You noticed in your debate that Croatian citizens pay taxes in order to make the company more efficient and thus do more inefficient business. And you're absolutely right. Subsidies to HZ, shipyards amounting to 3.5 billion to 4 billion kuna each employed in Croatia cost 300 kuna per year. So they pay taxes on inefficient public enterprises. It is a tax paid by Croatian citizens who work, per month 300 kuna, for these companies to function like this and for the rejection of these conclusions that you mentioned. It's absolutely unnecessary. These 3.5 to 4 billion kuna could be aimed at many other things to benefit Croatian citizens that they really see benefits from what they pay. 300 kuna each month of salary for inefficient public enterprises.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48890	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48891	You're telling your colleague Maras that these money could be focused on other things. We could, but then we wouldn't be focused on where they are now, and these are the private pockets of those that HDZ, this HDZ government and Jadranka Kosor sent to those public companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48892	Your Honor, I must warn you next. If you have any knowledge that someone is being directed in private by that money to take it out to the competent authority. You are a responsible parliamentary representative, you speak in the Croatian House and I ask you to have dignity towards this House and responsibility. And we still have one replica, the esteemed representative of Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48893	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Stazic, you told numerous managers in public enterprises in your debate. That's a fact, that's what we all saw. But here I was surprised to see that there were really capable people there. Reading the report of the State Audit is interesting, let's say "HEP" service to publish articles in 2 foreign magazines worth one million kunas. If we look at the 2010 budget, it says that regularly active scientific professional associations are 826 thousand kunas. Obviously either one or more Teslas there in HEP just haven't seen them or recognized them, so there are obviously serious people when that kind of money is given for magazines... As for the refusal of employment on the party key, recently Vice-President Mr. Shakespeare made a statement in the media and that this is a very natural thing and that HDZ has no intention of getting rid of it. I think it's obviously something that's common, so it won't get rid of even though it's been declared because it's been rejected in this interpretation of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48894	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48895	I have not seen this explicit statement by Mr. Seks that he does not intend to deny HDZ employment on the party's key, but such a statement was signed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia in a proposal to reject this interpretation of ours, which is precisely what we are looking for. Termination of employment on the party's key. It is requested by the interpretation by will and by the signature of Jadranka Kosor, so it is somewhat logical that Mr. Shakespeare repeats that same thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48896	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate, it's up to the distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48897	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Well, at the beginning, I'm sorry that the government rejects the proposal for the conclusions of this interpretation. These conclusions of interpretation are not radical they are something that everyone would so dare say politely at the place of any responsible person who behaves responsiblely accepts. Business analysis is required. Is it not, then, that it is contentious? What's the government's fear here? Plans are required for us who manage state money in some way because the Parliament is the most representative body, to get business plans for the next three years. So what's the big deal? Who's afraid of that? It is required to analyse the work of the supervisory boards and that they respond to the owner of who manages it. So what's the big deal? Who's afraid of that? It is also required to adopt criteria on the basis of which salaries will be set in a particular state-owned enterprise. So I think why are you people afraid of it? What's the fear for? The ministry is tasked with verifying all indications that might indicate illegality. So why the fear of it? This is what the problem is, and therefore, the rejection of my interpretation is a fundamental misunderstanding of what is happening in the Croatian economy. In fact, it may be a bit of a difficult term, but you have no idea. Why? For a very simple reason. The real sector in Croatia is unfortunately unable to finance all things especially not the public sector without the role of public enterprises. A simple thing and a simple reason to do so is because the revenues of the real sector are at 30% of gross social product level. 50% of the gross social product is financed from the central state. Partly and in charge. Over 20% of gross social product is financed from transfers i.e. the revenues of public enterprises and local self-government units. Public companies in Croatia made revenue of more than 50 billion kuna in 2009 and compared to 2008. Almost 60 billion kuna. That's half the state budget. 70% of everything that happens in Croatia is controlled by the state, 70% of all transfers or units of local self-government. The real sector weighs 30%. What are the chances of the real sector raising the Croatian economy and the Croatian economy? Absolutely none without the proper role of the state and without the appropriate role of public enterprises. In the real sector, less than 800,000 people were employed. 750 thousand people are left out of work from day to day in the real sector. 750 thousand people in the real sector should satisfy the financial demands of 4.3 million people living in Croatia. So one in the real sector and another five on all sides. Well, I think you can tell from the plane that it's just unsustainable. Now what public companies should do. Public companies can be in a developed country with a serious approach to the economic growth generator if they are used in this direction. They can be the generators of the development of innovation, the development of company references and the provision of these companies that work for these public export companies. They can be examples of successful business, not indifference generators. Unfortunately, in Croatia, public enterprises are just everything that is not what it should be. The following results are given in this Annex. So this is what 21 companies were analyzed for. It has been observed that they have seven billion kunas of outstanding liabilities. Seven billion kunas of various claims. If it is analysed that the total let's say indivisibility as it is popularly called towards companies and craftsmen in Croatia at the level of 26 billion kuna, it turns out that at least 21 of these companies are at least one third of that amount. The comparison data is working. Over 60 billion means about 60 billion kunas of total income. Imagine in the year of the real sector crisis that there was an increase in employment as it occurred in state-owned enterprises. Zagreb-Rijeka highways increase employment 22%, Croatia insurance employment increase 11%, Croatia highways increase employment 10%, and Croatia highways borrow money from the Zagreb-Rijek highway so that they can pay the salaries. Well, I think it's terrible people, it's serious things. And in the crisis year, not only are new people employed, but there are additional disruptions in the business. In 2008 which compared to 2009, fewer crises these business results were as low as can be seen by 2 billion kunas. For 2 billion kunas. 2 billion kunas is one sand bridge that hasn't been built and the question of how long it won't be built. That's 2 billion kuna, yes. Imagine in the real sector, imagine companies facing a crisis that is partly caused by disturbances in the general market but which often serves as an excuse for restructuring. Imagine that at that age, they reduce the i.e. rationalize their business by 5, 10 or 15%. If public companies rationalized business by 5, 10 or 15%, they would save 3.6 or 9 billion kuna. Have them save 3 billion kuna. 3 billion kuna is 8 years of free textbooks for all students at the same time, that's 3 billion kuna. 3 billion kuna is the Zagreb-Sisak highway that is not made. So, irrational business without responsibility. Now, in such a business, the stakes and wages, the wages, and everything that the predecessors have said. The managerial contracts, or the Croatian public, do those who are in some way responsible for the laws in this country have no right to know which amounts they are, the number of which are the criteria for these management contracts in public enterprises. People who have very high wages and don't answer to anyone. That's what's the key problem. And therefore the refusal of this interpretation I will once again repeat is essentially a lack of elementary knowledge of what it is and there is no reason to worry about these things, analysis of business business. Well, I mean, I don't understand, I really don't understand what you're afraid of, so here's what I really don't get. Then business plans for three years. I mean, I'm reading it all over again, but these are the conclusions that are proposed by this interpretation. If the Government is afraid of it, then we rightly have concerns about what is in the business of these companies. So, to analyze the work of the supervisory boards, it's the most normal thing in a country that's arranged to bring criteria not to determine wages. Publicity, those who manage state money have the right to know. It is not a problem that you reject this report, but the problem is that you do not understand that public enterprises are now the brakes of Croatia and they can and should be the generator of economic growth, but in the future they will have fewer opportunities to be. Why? Because the level of support will drop, because we will enter the free market of the European Union, because the Competition Protection Act is clear and because we will not have time to adapt our companies to demanding competition. And it's literally gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48898	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48899	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48900	We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48901	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Bernardic, I'd just like to refer to this one thing that you said was a matter of analysis of the work of the supervisory boards. This is one of the conclusions of this interpretation, and surely it is one of the needs that all of us who are talking about and who have discussed it, we believe that surely the Government should support it. I think, however, not only to support the analysis of supervisory committees, the work of supervisory committees at the level of the state but also by means of a legislative proposal in some way to extend it to be carried out in self-government units, local self-government units in public enterprises where people are also appointed through the assemblies of county, city and so on. Councils. Because often this is all about what's being said here at the state level, often it's very well mirrored just as well at the local level, at the level of counties, cities, municipalities and there's employment not by expertise but by political similarity. Corruption, crime is also present and I think that only a single action at the state level and at the level of the local self-government community could protect the entire instrument of public work. And for that reason, I think that this SDP proposal should not be rejected but should work on both a full part and a local level and not just a state level.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48902	Thank you. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48903	Thank you. Dear fellow Bodakosh, you've noticed well. This SDP proposal, these conclusions are not a disturbance of budget items, they are not a change from the core business of businesses. They're a call to decency, a literal call to decency. The rejection of these and such written proposals and conclusions is a literal mockery of the work of this Parliament. Here, I can really say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48904	Thank you. And we have another replica of Honorable representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48905	Dear fellow Bernardic, listening to this debate today is really hypocritical to listen to one thing, to submit one interpretation and to do something else on the ground. In order to be credible about what is then written there and in Sibenik, Dubrovnik, Zagreb should implement what you are looking for at the state level for employment in urban enterprises. In Sibenik, in particular, everything that smells of HDZ has been replaced without any competitions, with nothing where even directors have been forced to resign without a mandate and we are talking here today as if we were in Bethlehem. First, we need to clean up in our backyard so we can look elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48906	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48907	It needs it everywhere, it's not controversial. Here, wait another two months and we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48908	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear Zgrebec's distinguished representative is coming. Here you go. You're giving up? Very good. And then in the end, the distinguished representative is Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48909	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, obviously this is about refusing this interpretation for a simple reason, because the government also doesn't have a clear and certain policy towards public enterprises, and let's say for Croatia's forests, which are 100% state-owned and which run 47% of state-owned territory. In the debate on the findings of the State Audit, too, there was talk of missing everything in the Croatian forests, but why is that? It is the government and the ministry where the ministers have changed, when they need to be amended, that the Regulation on the fixing of the compensation for transferred and limited rights to forests and forest land should not be paid, so they have to be paid, so this way the state's assets are essentially a bit inn in different ways, without real charge and without a real trace of money. Also, Croatian forests also receive certain funds under the Law on Forests, a general useful function of the forest of 0,07%, which is at an annual level of about 350 to 400 million kuna. And what's worse, there are no rules for the distribution of those funds and how these money can be spent. In the energy strategy itself where it was concerned and about the biomass of the Croatian forest they founded, for example, one daughter d.o.o. Which is basically used for the sale of heating wood. Instead of developing exactly the plants and that biomass and energy available in the Croatian forests is financed from these funds, it easily covers the salaries of its employees. Why wasn't that done? Simply because it suits the HDZ, or the government, because according to one statement, the former Prime Minister said I'm not going to talk to the 16 directors of the administration, but I want to talk to one of them, which I'm going to need. Obviously, there is no policy, no thinking where, and how to deal with these public enterprises, or control them. It is easier this way and the whole story of restructuring is certainly needed, but not only the restructuring of Croatian forests but primarily Croatian forestry, because the ratio of participation in areas is no longer the one that was before. He hasn't even been Irish since 2003, he hasn't been under the HDZ election programme, and I believe there won't be a restructuring after a new study of the Faculty of Economics that also paid 4 million kuna. Probably nothing from her either. What's important is what's important, and that's the attitude to the wood industry. The wood industry was previously in the power of the Ministry of Economy to now move to the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. And the very reason is simply one thing that in 2008, 140 thousand cubic oaks, logs, which were not in the production of Croatian forests, were deployed directly from the ministry. So there's no competition, there's no public tender for sale, but it all comes down to about 5% of the sales through a public tender, that's just so much we can say that there is. In the State Audit Report, public procurement is about 50% on forest administrations, and 50% on the directorate. Interestingly, the directorate gets and hits office material for all the forests in the entire Republic of Croatia around 170. A long time ago, a colleague of mine told me, hey, my colleague when I was doing 200 kilos of paint at my store, and then I could possibly go out and get a drink with my dealer. Well, now that he's getting 170 times 200, that's what it is, then it's not just a drink in some coffee shop anymore. What is also interesting, I am asked by colleagues on the ground what is the difference between a single-member administration and a five-member administration. No, he says, there's no difference. Only this one makes five slower decisions. And that administration was made towards party similarity and belongings, supervisory boards also, and the assembly is changing towards the resolution ministry when which minister is there and then runs his, so to speak, a little more private policy towards forestry or the wood industry. These are also one of the reasons why the Government does not accept this interpretation, because it would also reveal that there is no quality policy towards certain public enterprises, i.e. state-owned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48910	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48911	In your discussion, you touched the Croatian Forests the most. Croatian forests, in fact their business is a very enigmatic thing. They are essentially a state in the state, they have a specific position unlike any of these other companies that do business like this and what the state defends, or the government forbids anything being examined, if something is already rolling down on something that can't be covered up. But Croatian forests and their business are part of the management of the Croatian forests, especially in connection with the operation of certain units of local self-government is a much wider topic which may ultimately be reduced to this, not only how business is done, at which speed and the way business is done. How the land that is forest land can suddenly become, and that's the way of doing business, so available, it's even more dangerous than where the money will go, because we'll sort of get rid of it. But giving up what is left of Croatia, as was the fate of the 1990s with social enterprises. It is now in such a way as to protect forests and forest areas, so overnight in cooperation with certain units of local self-government, and when it comes to a specific person, it turns into a buildingal already as necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48912	Replica reply, distinguished representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48913	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues, Ingrid, you've just identified one problem, and that's who manages and who rules state land. And there is one reason to restructure Croatian forestry, not Croatian forests, but Croatian forestry to distinguish who manages and who rules. Croatian forests, whether forest economies or not, as we call them must be for forest management. And state and state property management, forests and forest land must be someone else, which is the primary ministry. However, there is another problem. The Ministry of Maltena of the Croatian Forest, and your inspection is under the Ministry. And now from the Croatian forests come to inspection and then oversee these same Croatian forests which doesn't seem to make much sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48914	Thank you. And that's the end of the debate. On behalf of the promoter, the finally respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48915	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I would like to thank the representatives who participated either through a replica or through an exhibition in this debate. I'm glad that unlike last point, the HDZ Representatives Club said its position. I'd invite the other clubs since they didn't participate in the debate. Perhaps it is still possible to get a majority in view of the number of MPs who have not yet publicly defined themselves for this interpretation because there is really nothing wrong with it, nothing controversial. We also heard from the ruling party that the government is working hard, that it wants transparency, that it has initiatives. Well, if it's a good idea to actually give that opportunity to really bring that stuff back to life. And if that's really necessary, I'll try to refresh this debate with a few more details. But it may also help certain MPs to change their mind. When you look at the data for 1000 largest companies in 2008, since this is the last report we have yet for 2009 you will see that companies owned by the Republic of Croatia or influenced do not have to be majority owned, but where the state has a major impact and even a crucial role take high places on that list. The INA oil industry, unfortunately, has no impact anymore, but it had a state back then. Now she has left the management rights completely, only two percent of the shares have fewer stakes in the company. INA was the first company in Croatia. She made a billion kuna loss in that year. After that, Croatia's electricity industry is 11 billion kuna revenue of 13 million kuna lost. When you're looking then follow the positive companies and the first or second negative which is in a row is Brodosplit Shipyard, this famous shipyard where we've had this affair with six million dollars, or 500 million losses. After that Croatia airports 90 million losses. All companies amongst the first page among the 50 strongest, and the losses they have made are really impressive. When we look at, say, companies like this, some of them are dominant, some of them less dominant on the market, you see a huge difference again. Here, the state-owned company Croatia insurance in which we now had a change of director who was praised as excellent. He received the award from the manager of the year we see that the company ended up with 68 million kunas, and the profit relative to the assets and incomes is 2.1 and 1%, respectively. When you look at compatible companies, I'll take Euroherc here, which has three times the profit compared to the property and the income. So where companies earn profits in government property doesn't mean they can't be even more efficient. I can absolutely be more efficient and the reason why this isn't the case is because we don't have good control over them. We don't have good start-up control through the boards, we don't have good control and we don't have effective administrations in these companies. Because how to explain that here we are now making a switch at the Croatian Insurance Administration, bringing a man on the side and expecting the company to function again as it has worked so far. So these things, and if it were big money, Croatia's insurance is 3 billion and 200 million kuna a year. So we simply play at the level of politics with such values and with the property of the enormous value of Croatian citizens. It simply shouldn't be a case in Croatia, and we should simply stop that practice. That's why the SDP, but look at another situation that's very interesting. When we look at companies where ownership is connected by some people in power, these companies are doing very well. Here's IGH's big profit. So, when he's taking care of his own IGH property, he's doing well, but when he's taking care of state property, the ministers aren't at the level of the task that would be expected of them, because they're still representatives and congregations mostly in state-owned companies, and somewhere as chairman of the supervisory boards. That is why I believe that, in the Club of Representatives of the SDP, there is really nothing wrong with this material, that both HDZ and SDP and all parties in Croatia have an interest in these companies doing their best. Only reports are required in these conclusions, a business plan is required, supervisory committees are required to change if they are not valid. Again, I say we do not insist on public tenders, because the Supervisory Board can be changed and it is the Assembly that represents the interests of the owner. We're looking for the opposite of that public procurement for administrations, which is more important, because it's being signed I said a contract for a certain time to which you run the company. Goals shall be set, etc. It's important to prescribe public tenders. We are asking that if there are any doubts that the Supervisory Board and certain state institutions are carrying out surveillance, I really don't see what it is and why the government rejects what it is supposed to be for. If she advocates why she wouldn't accept a proposal like this. A number of proposals were accepted by the opposition when they were in Croatia's interest. This proposal is definitely in the interest of Croatia and Croatian citizens. And the only thing that can be concluded is that the Priory refuses because of what the opposition has accepted. But good. In case we refuse him now, we'll accept him when we have the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48916	Okay. That means we have concluded the debate, and we will vote when the necessary conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48917	Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the management and control of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. Proposer: 20 representatives of the SDP club. The debate is closed. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "The Interpelation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the management and control of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia is rejected.". I'm voting on the government's conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal for a conclusion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was adopted by 77 votes in favour, no abstentions and 37 against. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48918	... but which is why, in the event of a voice impelation on the government's conclusion, it is not an impelation proposal. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] Why do you vote in a tone of inverse form? Whether it stems from some kind of rules of procedure or from your will, because it would be logical when it comes to the interpretation that it is then voted first on the interpretation rather than on the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48919	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48920	We voted, but that's why I didn't want to interrupt the vote. But please think about it because this doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48921	We're going to do one more point today, and that's point 12. - Annual State Aid Report 2008 Proposer: Competition Protection Agency The Competition Protection Agency submitted this report on the basis of Article 20. State aid laws. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honored Olga Spevec, President of the Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48922	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. I hope you'll have a little more patience to hear about the State Support Report. If something's missed I'll try to apostrophe the most important points of the report in this short speech. The annual report therefore contains a review of State aid for 2008 and final data on support granted in 2006 and 2007, for all sectors of the economy, including agriculture and fisheries, and according to categories and forms of support. I must remind you that, in accordance with the Law on State aid and the relevant acquis of the European Union, state aid is not considered to help citizens, transfer from the state budget to local and regional and self-government units, infrastructure building funds, or economic policy measures that lower taxes, contributions or other contributions at the general level. I must also point out that the Competition Protection Agency is not responsible for the control of support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry under the State Aid Act. So if we were to observe this report in this way then we can see that during 2008, the Republic of Croatia granted state aid of 8 billion and 810.5 million kuna, which is about 18% or by a billion and 884 million kuna less than in the previous 2007 when the support amounted to around 10 billion and 700 million kuna. The share of support in the gross domestic product in 2008 was 2.57% lower than in 2007, when the share was 3.4%. It is also an important indicator of the real level of state support that, according to an employee in Croatia, state aid amounted to around 5 thousand and 670 kuna, and per capita, slightly above 2 thousand kuna. In other words, each employee of the Republic of Croatia gave up a little more than one average monthly net salary for state aid, and each citizen gave up about 2,000 kuna. A detailed analysis of the support and their structure in 2008, but also the period since 2004 since the agency has been monitoring and reporting this High House on State aid shows continued growth of support for agricultural, fisheries and forestry, while at the same time reducing both the absolute amount and the share of support for other sectors, i.e. industry and services sectors. For example, in 2008 agricultural support amounted to 3 billion and 537.7 million kuna, they are more by 10.2% than in 2007 and account for 40% in the support structure. At the same time, the needs for industry and services in the same way were 5 billion and 272.8 billion kuna in 2008 and were less by 30% than in 2007, and their share has already fallen to 60%. Furthermore, an analysis of the support structure of the industry and services sector shows that almost 70% of these support or around 3 and a half billion kuna is directed towards several sectors, and this is the transport sector, Croatian broadcasting, shipbuilding, tourism. A significantly smaller part of the support, i.e. around a billion and 200 million kunas or 23% of the total aid allocated in this sector of industry concerned support intended for horizontal objectives, such as research and development, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, employment, education and improvement, environmental protection, energy savings, culture. Thus, the above-mentioned sectoral support structure shows that the existing support system still cannot significantly affect the increase in exports or the change in the structure of Croatian exports that has been almost the same for decades. In order to achieve this and through support to affect the strength of the Croatian economy, the more effective impact of support on the competitiveness of the Croatian industry needs to be changed even with greater determination to change the approach of support policy. In other words, it is necessary to implement the necessary reform procedures that will result in the restructuring of those sectors of industry which, despite the support and support of the state, are unable to provide assumptions for long-term sustainable market business and, on the other hand, increase support for the removal of so-called Market failures, i.e. those aided by the State where the market cannot give effect, as already mentioned horizontal objectives. But still... I'd say things are moving. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the preceding 2008 we also recorded several positive trends. In particular, the harmonisation of aid rules with the legal acquis of the EU which promotes the just granting of support for the above-mentioned horizontal objectives, and the establishment of a support control system implemented by the Competition Protection Agency gradually alters the image of the support in Croatia. Positive trends are seen in a reduced amount of support at the general level, so they are less 18% than they were a year before, and more importantly, there is a gradual reduction in the share of sectoral support in total aid granted and also what is even more important in the growth of horizontal support. In particular, the growth of support for small and medium-sized enterprises, such as in 2008 is more than 200% more than in 2007. Also, the growth of support for environmental protection and energy savings, which was up to 80% support for employment, research and development, points to the positive winds mentioned. Therefore, it is evident that the support system can and must be changed. Not only for the sake of EU demands, but also for him to give the best results. And who are they? These are with as little taxpayers' resources and as little negative effects on competition as possible to provide assistance to the Croatian economy to make it more successful and competitive. It is therefore the need for an even more decisive reorientation of support to the objectives that contribute to economic growth and provide assistance to entrepreneurs. Not to keep them on the market, but to improve their business and become competitive. In order to make the support system more efficient and transparent, more accessible to users and ultimately cheaper, it will be necessary to consider the possibility of optimising the number of state aid providers, i.e. to carry out a higher level of support at one or at least a few places. At the Agency, we believe that about 20 support providers at the state level are certainly too much. That this leads to unnecessary waste of taxpayers' money increases the cost of granting support both on the part of the country and on the part of the users themselves. Finally, it significantly reduces the effectiveness of the support. At the same time, support providers, in particular when it comes to grant grants through subsidies, will need to focus more attention on the dedicated use control system of the allocations, i.e. monitoring the effects of the support granted under certain programmes and therefore reviewing these support programmes. In conclusion, the establishment and implementation of the State aid policy are in the jurisdiction of state authorities, support providers, i.e. at national, municipal or county level. The Agency's job is to assess the compliance of these programmes with the law, as well as the control of the support granted and to order the recovery of unlawfully granted support. And, of course, reporting to this High House and the Croatian public on support. Starting from the national interest of increasing the competitiveness of the domestic economy, especially at the time of recent EU membership, on the one hand, and limited resources on the other, it is evident that the future support policy must be more clearly defined and focused on pre-defined objectives and priorities. And with effective control, it must also be a minor burden for all taxpayers. Let us not forget, for each support, it is necessary to bear in mind that it is the means resulting from the work and activities of the best and most efficient entrepreneurs. But it is also the funds of all Croatian citizens, taxpayers. And the more they are taken away, the less they will invest in new technologies, new products and new markets, and the less and less resources they remain for consumption, which then encourages production. Therefore, when designing a support policy, it should be measured and well assessed whether Croatian taxpayers can submit pressure and constant requirements for as much support and state intervention as possible. It is necessary to consider whether the crisis is not a time when the current support policy needs to be changed more decisively, or whether the crisis will be used as an additional argument in order to be taken even more from the good ones and to give those whose chances of survival on the market are minimal or none. And that's how they stopped the necessary reform procedures. Let us also remember that solidarity means not only solidarity in redistribution, distribution of earned, but solidarity also involves solidarity in earning and spending taxpayers' money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48923	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. Then I open up the debate and the clubs are up first. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, agency representatives, Mrs. Director with an associate. State support, the 2008 State aid report is the item of the agenda in these late hours. Supports in which each of our employees has invested one of their average monthly wages. I think that finding deserves a special attention to this report, according to these means. I'm not going to turn out, I don't want to turn out to be complaining, and the time we're discussing this point, but I think the debate on this point is worth one more responsible approach to us in the Croatian Parliament. Because every citizen, every employee, sets out one average monthly salary, means they give up that salary, in favour of the support that was at 8 billion and 800, 2007. 10 and 700, 2006. Nine and 400 billion. Just a report, and I want to make that very clear at the beginning of the debate, that the HNS Club will support this report. The report is extremely high-quality, standard and standard quality, as it has been all these years, because every year we discuss this report, and especially for the reasons that arise as the conclusion of the agency related to the entire support system and our overall responsibility for these support. And they reaffirm the need for a thorough, even more powerful year-on-year, but thorough and debate-based change in the support system, and when I say support systems, it is that for each support when given, and given on the basis of a plan, based on some strategies, the question has ever been made whether any impact analysis of a particular strategy followed by such support regardless of which sector. The time ahead, which is the process of joining the European Union, definitely imposes this need on us and is one of the reasons why and why further efforts should be made to join the European Union as quickly as possible, in addition to those other options and potentials that our entry into the European Union brings. And so it's very simple. This report raises several questions. First, what is the effectiveness of these support? Was Cost-Benefit analysis made of any support? And especially do support providers do analysis? First of all, support providers. It's very simple. We did something, it costs us so much and so much money, and could we do what we did for less money? It's very simple. And I think it's the obligation of every support provider. And we at the Croatian People's Party club fully support our position and not only now, but every year when we discuss the report, which is that we need to reduce the number of support providers, that the number of support providers should be optimised, and that the effects of the support will ultimately result in a greater result. Agriculture is one of our eternal topics, which is not yet the subject of monitoring the Competition Agency, but we are familiar with the dimension of the annual granting of support from the state budget, on various grounds and on the other hand the effects of agricultural production itself. The area as chairman of the Committee on Regional Development, and we have recently also had the Regional Development Act, and soon and yesterday thematic session on the topic of regional development strategy, says the following. We spend about 5 billion kuna a year on regional development, we have about 275 municipalities and cities under the status of assisted areas of any special state care, whether mountain-mounted, or islands. And it's been a long time. We have one situation today, and this is an analysis that preceded the analysis of the Regional Development Strategy, that according to the new system of calculation or this new system of defining assisted areas, it is an index of development that in some percentages which has not yet been established because it is brought by the Government, which in some percentage to the national average defines which municipality or which city enters the system of assisted areas. According to one assessment, 84% of municipalities and cities that have been in assisted areas so far, areas of special state care and new categorisation are entering assisted areas. So what are the effects of so far supporting these municipalities and these cities? I understand the first group, I understand part of the second group. But a question arises for the third group of municipalities and cities that have a category of special national concerns for the third group. Or another information on the effectiveness of support in the assisted areas. All municipalities and cities involved in assisted areas are at 63% of the national income average per capita. And 160 municipalities and cities, 160 units of local self-government not included in assisted areas are below 50% of the national average. It therefore speaks of the effectiveness of funding and regional development and regional development policy, and therefore all the support that has gone in this direction and gives full support to the conclusions we have heard and from the Competition Agency and something that we all know very well and what we all know. We at the Croatian People's Party club stress the need as always, as always, as whenever possible, for the support provider to make Cost-Benefit support before giving it, the effects of support to analyse the strategies we have to analyse. It is solely because of the liability to the taxpayers who allocate those support funds, and especially given this information, which is that each employee makes one of its average salaries for support, which ultimately do not give the right effects. And there's our obligation now. And that is why we support this report, too, and we are warning about the need for stronger accountability and rationality, and in particular the calculation of any support coming from the central budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48925	Thank you. Now it is the HDZ Club's turn, the distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48926	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Council. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Annual State Support Report. And here in this introductory section, perhaps we should look at the situation with our support in relation to the European Union, so the old Member States of the European Union and all 27. Namely, the share in the gross social product if all support is taken into account other than agriculture, fisheries and transport is in the European Union and 12, and 15 and 27 somewhere around 0.4%. What's important as well as the data is that in these 0.4% the share of horizontal and regional support is 80%. We have a very different situation. So the share in the gross social product is 1.93% for 2007 while the share of horizontal and regional support is around 24%. It is certain that we cannot be satisfied with such a structure and that, in the future, such a structure should be changed, so this sectoral support should be reduced, especially those related to recovery and restructuring but clearly from year to year, and horizontal support should therefore include research, development, environmental protection, energy savings, support to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and also strengthen and increase the share of regional support. Although it is not the agency responsible for agriculture and fisheries, it should be said that in 2006, we had a share of agriculture of 26% in total aid to make it to 40%, that the situation is not good and not sustainable. We're all incentives in agriculture, and they need to be more efficient. It should also be mentioned that when the ten transition countries entered the European Union in 2004 that they only realised 25% of the total support received by the old Member States, precisely for reasons not to be put to sleep, so that structural reforms could not be stopped and that this would in some way be an incentive to continue working on structural reforms. Also, the question of the efficiency of these support. Therefore, until a paying agency is put in place to the end, until satellite control of crops and crops is introduced and still supported independently of their size will not be effective enough. And only in the end would I like to say, perhaps in part, and repeat what the president said. We have support with 20 levels, with 20 points. Likewise, when we talk about state aid at the level of units of local and regional self-government, then very often there is a duplicate, so where both local and national competitions are either entrepreneurs or associations, or researchers, means they compete for both state support and local support, they receive both support from one level and from another level which is certainly not good, these overlaps should be stopped and it is safe to work on further supervision but it is also possible to establish a single register and centralise the grant of support to implement as effective a monitoring mechanism as possible. And eventually, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48927	Thank you. And now it's SDP's turn, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48928	So here's when we talk about the State Support Report, then we need to look at a few things that the predecessors said, but also the rapporteur herself, and she's connected to what they're trying to achieve and she's tied to the way they're applied and where they all apply. Now, a HDZ counterpart has made it very clear that there is a duplication of state support and that is also true at local and national level. However, there is a duplication of state aid from various forms of subsidies from pre-accession European Union and central countries, in particular for agricultural subsidies, there is this. However, whose task it is to monitor, whose task it is to analyse, whose task it is to cover everything, whose task it is to propose. So, among other things, we come to the conclusion that this is exactly the task of the agency that has been following the 2003 competition. A proposal on how to implement this government should just go probably from them, what sounds logical to me. When we talk about state aid, then it should be noted that since 2003, Croatia has adopted a Stabilisation and Association Agreement after the establishment of the Competition Agency, we have had to commit ourselves, accept the rules of the European Union and, accordingly, this agency has had a task that is not easy, which is to reduce the support, especially sectoral support which mainly goes to the non-competitive industry in Croatia and the European Union does not want to put them in a more favourable position than others on the market. It is not surprising, therefore, that over 50% of all support in the European Union is horizontal support, that there is also a trend in regional support, means those support granted to meet more equal regional development and that there is a total amount of these horizontal support when they are added together with regionals around this amount, which was spoken of by counterpart Kovacevic about 80%. What this report also says is a data that can be compared to that that amount of horizontal support is somewhere at 25%. However, 25% of this is likely to include some support that has a European character since I have come to the data that this amount of support is 13.53%. Wait a minute, let me see, those numbers don't work for me. So, regional support and support granted to the local level means according to the EU methodology. So that's probably this amount in 2008 increased from 1.2 billion to 1.774 billion. That's page 13, here I was wondering, I answered. When we talk about support, what should also be cared for is a way of granting support, and in Croatia in general, the most support is given through subsidies. Direct grants from the state budget are namely a more transparent form of state aid and they definitely contain a discretionary criterion, a criterion that is prone to selective approach, a criterion that is prone to even corruption, a criterion from which developed countries flee. As a result, subsidies are shared in a more project-based, less programme-based way in the European Union and therefore this level of support ratio in the European Union is significantly different. These horizontal support precisely and on the trail of what the HNS colleague said should lead to the creation of a new value, i.e. those resulting in just investment in the process in the European Union, means in the higher technology which is generally the result of the investment i.e. creating a new value. When creating a new value, it's good for everyone. It is good for those who produce because it will sell better, it is good for the state since it will more pick and it is good for employment since more people will get a job. Now, what is Croatia's main problem, which we also have in this report, which is something to track down what counterpart Koračević was saying, we have no way or we have no way of showing the cost of benefit analysis, how the funds were used, to whom they gave, how many new values were created. This is one more serious approach and it is one approach that could certainly travel the way for the next reports. So this report is also a set of data that we can interpret in one way or another, but that strategic goal, the goal of cost-benefit analysis, is not in it, and it just doesn't show. In particular, it is not seen when we know that the Croatian economy is particularly in 2008, and now, in last year 2009, it has started to experience major problems and to struggle with the crowd, I could say so, various obstacles, and that is why such a systematic approach to granting support and the report on the support given should become an integral part of this report in the future. I think you can do it. The question is what capacity is, but I don't think that should be a problem for more comprehensive support. Agriculture and Fisheries, meaning our share of state aid has been reduced as it encourages and in 2009 it will fall by 500 million, which is also a fundamental objective, one of the main objectives of the Competition Agency is precisely to reduce this sectoral support in the process of Croatia's accession to the European Union. However, it should be noted that the share in agriculture and fisheries has increased significantly, and this is something that definitely does not encourage and something that makes Croatian agriculture dependent on grants from the state budget. She's not competitive, she's not entrepreneurial, she's addictive. And unfortunately, when we come to the situation that we will be close to the market, a single European Union market, then many of our farmers will unfortunately have to suffer things and face things that no one has warned them about before. This is what is a big problem and what will be a big problem, especially if we quickly enter the European Union. Also, reading this report can show that in the structure of horizontal support is a very small part, it is also an objection in some way to the criteria for granting support, set aside for employment. So, employment is one of the important segments of promoting employment, supporting the employment of each developed economy, including that undeveloped economy, means every economy. With us, the share of these support is close to 0.2% of gross social product. It is less and it is several times less than in many transition countries in the region. I don't know if you know that, but that information has to be said, although it's a big part of this horizontal support cake. So 55% of all horizontal support, so over half of all the horizontal support goes for employment. But on the other hand, the part that goes for employment is several times smaller than in transition countries in the region, let alone in developed European countries. Here, we are on this report that objectively showed in macro-data what state support is. We also urge that, on this side, duplication of support, comprehensive analysis, cost-benefit analysis of state support and the agency itself are engaged so that in the future they may have, so I hope for the next year, not only more quality material but also a more organised approach to grant state support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48929	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. It's the Honorable representative Mirela Holy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48930	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the 2008 Annual State Support Report, I must once again warn of the fact that today, at the very end of February 2010, we are discussing the Annual State Aid Report for 2008, and not in 2009, which I believe would be logical. This is unfortunately happening regularly in the Croatian Parliament, so almost all reports are discussed with great delay, and may we never get it, despite the legal obligations. What does that show? This shows the government's relationship with the executive body towards the Croatian Parliament, i.e. marginalisation, non-compliance with the parliament as legislative authorities. But whoever did this to us, it's our own fault that the government is allowed to have this kind of ignoring relationship with us. But not only are deadlines problematic when we talk about reports that we are discussing. The contents and structures of these documents are also problematic, which are often extremely formal. The legal obligation of the executive authority to report on the implementation of certain measures is often done by the executive authority only to satisfy the legal form, rather than to give contentious debate on reports possible corrections to certain practices of the executive body, which should be the meaning of parliamentary debates on reports. What do you say about this report? I will not be maligned and say that this report has also been made as most of the reports discussed in the Parliament, i.e. superficially and reform. But it seems to me that this document still lacks some extremely important information and more detailed explanations. Given that the area of environmental protection is best known to me in my debate, I will mainly refer to this part of the Report, and already during the superficial reading of the Report, I was uncomfortable with the scrupulousness of the data contained in Chapter 4.1.2 which reports exactly on the structure of environmental support and energy savings. It is very easy to report that in 2008 the total amount of aid was EUR 37.1 million for these purposes, i.e. subsidies, i.e. grants, i.e. grants, i.e. grants, or grants, were largely granted. Due to the increase from 2007, it is explained, meaning a significant increase from 2007. It explains the larger subsidies in 2008 and the funds of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. But what the creator of this document missed to write about is what the funds were allocated for in 2007 and 2006, which in 2008, for which concrete projects not only to whom, but and for which and why, and whether there are differences in the structure of allocations in these three years, or all the time it is about holding back to say the same direction of granting support. What does this matter? This is important because it is precisely this information that shows the government's strategy, the government's strategic commitment to the development of certain sectors or areas. You can't see that in this document in this whole document. So, not only in this chapter on the environment, but also in all the other chapters of the document. It is not whether or not to support and encourage projects and energy efficiency in the food industry, metal or textile industry, or whether funds will be given to stimulate wind power plants or evenly all types of renewable energy sources from sun to small hydropower plants, geothermal energy, biomass or any other. It is precisely this data that shows the country's strategic developmental commitment, and this, in addition to controlling the conduct of the executive authority, should also be the main purpose of this Report. Unfortunately, you can't see not because of the sloppyness of the report makers, but because this HDZ government, no matter who runs it, has no strategic developmental vision of our country. The report then shows that the biggest support provider in 2008 was the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, which granted 33.3 million kuna in that year, and subsidized among other companies Koksar, Vindija, Brković, Itres, the raw materials dump, and Salonite. Of course, the report does not say which projects these companies have been awarded grant funds, which is surprising. In this respect, environmental protection is a very broad area which can also cover projects to resuscitate certain polluted areas, care of industrial or other waste, the introduction of a waste management system or a cleaner production system. These can also be energy efficiency projects, energy savings, cogeneration and treatment of waste water, more rational use of resources, raw materials, water and the like, reducing emissions of harmful gases, using the environment of more acceptable transport, and not counting further. In addition, I can't help but notice the proportion of the total resources of the Environmental Protection Fund and the energy efficiency that exceeds 1 billion kuna, not only in this year but also in last year, and I suppose in 2007, it was similar. And the said 37 or 50.6 million kuna of support is quite vaguely explained in the last sentence on page 27 of the document. Since the definition of support for environmental protection and energy savings can be granted to remove or prevent damage to the environment and natural resources, to achieve environmental protection standards or to promote rational use of nature and its goods extremely wide and to allow for diverse interpretation of the support, I cannot ask how the document maker from the fund material, i.e. the realization of the grant from the fund programme, has allocated the mentioned 33.3 million kuna. In fact, the amount of subsidies to companies in 2008 according to the material of the fund I am holding is significantly higher. I also believe that a very easy-thinking asset has been used to resuscitate black dots such as those for cokers in Bakr, as well as to declare in Vranjica subsidies, as this would mean contrary to the announcements by officials and officials of the Resort Ministry and the Fund that the state has decided to donate funds used to resuscitate known owners of these companies. I will also take this opportunity to point out that this grant grant from the Fund is a dangerous idea and reason for the foundation of the fund. Environment funds around the world are justified to finance projects that are being improved and improved by a set of fiscal burdens paid by consumers and environmental pollutants. Such funds are also used to co-finance projects for which polluters become significantly smaller contaminants which reduce and impose on such entities on the fund. The idea of leadership is not to increase funds of the fund, but rather to constantly reduce funds of the fund, as this shows the effectiveness of the state environmental policy. In Croatia, the situation is unfortunately diametrically opposite and every year the fund increases its incomes that are very unintendedly used and from which almost no positive shifts in terms of environmental protection are seen. That is, if nothing else indicates the absence of the strategic development vision of this government that I was talking about at the beginning of the presentation. Finally, I want to look at Chapter 2.1 which explains the categories of State aid, which shows that the growth trend of support for agriculture and fisheries continues, while reducing support for the industry and services sector. This way, without a doubt, the loyalty of the HSS is bought as the most important coalition partner of the HDZ. But what worries more is that this increase in support of agriculture is not seen in increasing agricultural production and food, and this seems to be of little concern to anyone in the government. Unfortunately, for some reason there is no adequate control of the use of support regardless of whether it is subsidies or any other form of support, which is absolutely unacceptable. It is also absolutely unacceptable that this document lacks a report on the control of the use of support and observed irregularities. I can't support this report because of everything I've been told before.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48931	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48932	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'd like to correct is the quote of a lady representative who says you can't see any movement in environmental protection. This is incorrect, Madam Representatives precisely for reasons, I am happy that here is also the Republic Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency to help the city of Sibenik in the recovery of electrodes and ferro alloys for the disposal of hazardous waste. Because the city of Sibenik could never afford 20 million kunas for that kind of work. Thank you very much. It's pretty late, otherwise it'd be time for a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48933	And now we have the final individual debate of the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovići. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48934	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the president of the agency with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am, unlike my colleague Holly, going to start my presentation with commendation. I would indeed praise this report because it seems to me to be a credible and reliable source of information and information on who is all granting state support, on the basis of which the programmes, which are intended to support these programmes, are the total value of the support contained in a particular programme, and which entrepreneurs are the largest beneficiaries of the support in the Republic of Croatia, except, of course, in the sector of agriculture and fisheries, which is excluded from the application of the State Aid Act, i.e. for which this agency is not in charge. I'll try and explain why. Here is the agency used in its report the methodology for showing state aid to be used in the European Union. The data used are shown in actual amounts obtained from the State aid providers. Supports are expressed in total, but also in the division of support to horizontal and sectoral objectives. Although regional support in the European Union is presented within the framework of horizontal objectives, due to their high importance for ensuring the even regional development of the Republic of Croatia, they are shown separately in this report. I believe that this is good because it is easier to monitor the results, i.e. the effects of these aids, as well as the support granted by units and regional self-governments that are also set aside to stimulate the economy and whose results are also more easily monitored. Here we see from the report that the 2008 support amounted to 8.8 billion kuna, which is therefore 17.6% less than in 2007, and the result of this reduction is to the most extent a reduction in sectoral support, especially shipbuilding, steel and aluminium industry. But what joy is that they have grown to support small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in very large amounts, but also this for environmental protection, employment, research and development. That's why I think it's a good way to grow these aids. Regional support in absolute downfall is 404 million kuna, but their share of total aids is growing. The allocation is in the form of subsidies and tax reliefs and exemptions. I believe that these support should also grow in the future and be used for new employment and investment promotion, and that they are good, that they are somehow both the most just and the most transparent way of providing support. The most representative instrument of support and further subsidies are 78%, followed by tax relief. As regards the control of the use of support, and there certainly is an irregularity, it should be called upon to mean everyone, and here from this place to the Institute of Objection that we heard in discussions on committees, that this institution is being used little, and which is being submitted to the Agency also means with the size of support, and use and role. So here I keep fit and from this place to call means to use this institute of objections. But to point out that if an irregularity is established, that the user returns support and is increased for the tight interest that is now in the Republic of Croatia is not very small or 15%. So if the support is illegally granted, the user gets hurt. We also heard on the board that all support providers have accepted the discipline of support which I also hold well, we learn quickly and we learn well, but we also heard the proposal that there should be an optimization of support which I also hold to be good. So here are the reasons why I'm going to support this report, so because it's methodologically good, that it's materially good, but it's also giving some concrete suggestions to give these support the best possible results. And in conclusion, I agree that the support system must be changed, but not only in order to survive some, but in order to improve business and achieve better competitiveness, which I believe is also the basic objective of these support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48935	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Olga Spevec, President of the Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48936	I, Mr. Vice President and Honorable MPs, actually apologize for taking my word again, but I still think there are some things that need to be explained. First of all, I thank all those who have had their comments, suggestions and opinions on this report. Of course the critics, too, I accept it and we'll try to make the report better next year. However, a number of facts should be considered. First of all, the Competition Protection Agency is not the Government's institution. This agency was founded by the Croatian Parliament. So here we are performing independently on behalf of this body here which founded us and each of you, in fact, who has criticism of our opinion welcome, to our reports welcome to the agency to explain to him the methodology that is not simple. It's not easy to explain what support is. Not all transfers of the environmental fund are in line with this law. They're transfers, but they're not support. So that's what we should take care of. Equally, what is most important is to take care of the fact that it is not the agency that runs the support policy. Support policy is being supported by support providers and therefore it is not true that our task is to reduce support. Our mission is to control the support. If the donors have money, they can give it as much as they want, but with the agency's approval. The Agency may not enter the amounts of support but only in actual application of the aid rules. The report can't be earlier, because the report doesn't depend on the agency. The report, as you know, is being prepared on the basis of the information we receive from the support provider. Some of the support providers, such as cities, municipalities and counties, and after three rushes or four rushes, do not deliver them. Same thing and less and less, but there's a donor at the central level. In addition, only in June is the adoption of the budget, and only in June 2009 has information on what was possibly assigned or was the programme allocated for the previous year. Therefore, the European Commission submitted its support report on 7 December 2009 for 2008. We went out in November. So we were before the European Commission. These are not data that are collected simply. It is not easy for them to come and object that the report is late, and that there is manipulation, marginalization simply does not stand. The agency as an independent institution would like the report to be delivered earlier, but because of the way the data is collected, because of the large number of donors, it's simply not all in our power. What's, uh... Benefit support analysis yes, but not in this report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This report is a scoreboard done by the European Commission methodology, and we can't, and it wouldn't be in line with the SAA either if we put that report on the bone benefit analysis, individual sectors, then it would probably be about thousands of pages of analysis that can't even be done year by year. Cost-Benefit analysis can't work from year to year because it's one job that requires both large resources and large resources and actually doesn't need to be done every year. What is said there is no need for Cost-Benefit if 60 to 70 support sector support for entrepreneurs who are mostly in difficulty, for transport it is all support providers, and you in the Croatian Assembly who have reports on the work of these bodies very well know what this money is and why it is spent on. So Cost-Benefit analysis yes, but it could go to these billions and 200. Maybe it's a little premature to talk about it now, but it can't, by methodology, be an integral part of the report. So if there's any need for further explanation, the agency door is open to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48937	Thank you. And that concludes the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. I'm also concluding today's meeting to inform you that tomorrow we're starting with point 13. Proposal for a legislative action plan to end negotiations on full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. At 9.30 so someone doesn't come sooner. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-24-0.u48938	For the next time this kind of situation occurs, we will consult previously on what would be the procedure, and we will apply what is acceptable. Otherwise, I don't think the re-election would change anything. ... So we'll see. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 11. Annual State Aid Report 2008, Proposer: The discussion is concluded by the Competition Protection Agency. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the conclusion which reads: "The Annual Report on State aid for 2008. A year.". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by the majority with 80 votes in favour of 26 abstentions and 5 against. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're going back to work. We're moving on to the next point. - Proposal for a legislative plan for the conclusion of negotiations on full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed this plan on the basis of Article 129(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on European Integration. Does the government's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Foreign Minister and European Integration Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
