ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47930	Just one question. Since we have some obligations, part of the MPs will be over in the government for these constitutional changes, which points will we be working on today? Here's nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47931	So here's the one we skipped the day before yesterday, that means the report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, etc. And seven. Final proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land if we get there. So we can't say exactly. If we start any points, we'll try to finish it. Anyway, here's to it in 12 hours. I don't know when you guys have that conversation over there. ... One o'clock. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, we'll be done by then. I hope we finish it. We move to - Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan (ISAF) from 1 April 2008 to 30 September 2009 The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted this report on the basis of point 4. Decisions on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The hearing was conducted by the Defence Committee. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Pierre Simunovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47932	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. During the peace operation period in Afghanistan, ISAF operations were deployed on 11th, 12th and 13th shift of the Croatian contingent with a six-month term of office, as well as the start of the 14th Croatian contingent's mandate. The total numbering composition of the contingent has increased to 295 members of the Armed Forces, not exceeding 300 members of the Armed Forces, which is the level set by the Croatian Parliament. Except for the grant... During the reporting period, regular shifts of staff officers at the headquarters of the peace operation, commanding offices, the North and Kabul Regional Command and the Croatian contingent in Lithuania... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and Hungarian... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the reporting period, the Republic of Croatia has stepped up its efforts in a peace operation in Afghanistan by harmonising its priorities with NATO demands and focusing on the contribution of the ISAF exit strategy from Afghanistan based on the training of Afghan security forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In March and April 2009, two new types of units were sent to the field of peace operation by OMLT's operational mentor team, one of which is multinational with the National Guard of Minnesota, which is also a partner, the American partner of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The reporting period marks a general increase in the level of uncertainty and instability throughout Afghanistan, thus facing all contingent components, although not to the same extent. The increase in the number of incidents and direct security threats for participants in the pension operation for the Croatian contingent had no consequences for human or significant material damage. During the reporting period, there was an improvement in objective factors affecting the work of members, which are within the scope of the Armed Forces. The most significant improvements we have made, ladies and gentlemen, concern communication and information systems and devices, as well as improvements in weapons, equipment, accommodation and protection. The needs for further improvements in the logistics support of certain contingent components have been identified, in line with new tasks or increasing the intensity of existing ones, as well as certain changes in the training segment and preparation of members of our ISAF-U contingent. Armed Forces members performed their duties in a peace operation in Afghanistan professionally, correctly, consciously and without major problems. For their professional activities, they often received commendations and other confessions. Although some components worked under more demanding conditions that reflect the technical equipment and weapons they used, they successfully completed their tasks without human casualties and injuries. Armed Forces have overcome most of the problems in their work by further pawning and motivation. All tasks set have been carried out professionally and at a high level. Members are motivated, psychophysically prepared for the performance of the task and under the most difficult conditions and are worthy of the Armed Forces and the Republic of Croatia, which is also mentioned by numerous commendations of the Allied Armed Forces. The experience gained from the peace operation in Afghanistan and in this learned lesson will contribute even better to the preparation and training of members of the Armed Forces for participation in peacekeeping operations and missions abroad both those under NATO's auspices, both under the leadership of the European Union and the United Nations. In December of last year, this House approved the participation of our members in this peacekeeping operation, in the ISAF operation in Afghanistan in 2010 with the possibility of sending up to 300 members. At the end of this month and in early March, a regular rotation of members of the Armed Forces in ISAF will be carried out and 15th contingent will be referred to this operation, as well as the work and stay of members of our 14th contingent, will be notified to you in our next report to the Croatian Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, I'd like just a few more notes concerning specificity during this reporting period. I would point out that during the reporting period, high visits from the Republic of Croatia occurred. In Afghanistan, she was Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic, Defence Minister Branko Vukelic. On their part, these visits made an outstanding contribution to the first positive feelings of members and members of the contingent and gave one significant visibility and to foreign partners in Afghanistan and internationally. As far as the period itself is concerned, as I said, definitely the trend is... security situations and challenges ahead of ISAF. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, as you can see for yourself the strategy that ISAF Commander General McCristal has recently developed, which is also linked to President Obama's decision to send additional 30,000 troops, gives the first results. NATO can see them, there were talks about them last week when the defence minister was at a defence minister's meeting in Istanbul, a NATO defence minister in Istanbul. Results on the plan to strengthen the capacity of Afghan armed forces and all instruments of the Afghan state to deal with the challenges ahead. It means that it enables faster and more meaningful extraction of the International Community, the extraction of the presence of NATO and ISAF forces in general from the country, and after the forces of the Afghan military and police are able to take over the country's security tasks, it is our goal and simply faced with the tasks and challenges that are ahead of us and this year, the strategy which is designed begins to deliver results and we, like other NATO members, are optimistic that, in a very fast period, these results will be even more visible and ultimately lead to the success of this operation that is important for the functioning of NATO, for the reputation of NATO and of course of Croatia as members of NATO. Our emphasis right now, ladies and gentlemen, is on strengthening all the instruments of preparation, training, equipment, monitoring, discipline and coordination that concern sending and managing and commanding our contingent. The emphasis we are giving and which is already, which is obvious in the trends recorded in the report period you have a report on, is the development of training skills. So we've never been to Afghanistan, nor have we, nor will we be to wage war instead of Afghans. We are there to help in a stabilising peace operation, where best we can or have the most powerful abilities acquired in large part of the Homeland War and later upgrades and learning, which is on the plan of training, on the plan to support the Afghan forces of the military and police to work their national security on their own. In this sense, the trends identified during this reporting period were continued and strengthened during this year when we increase not as you had the opportunity to see in December when the structure of strength and power for this year was debated. So within three hundred figures, we're developing a restructuring of new training skills. In particular, this year's contribution will concern two police-military teams based on the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior that would serve as training for Afghan police. So, the emphasis is on training, the emphasis is on strengthening all the instruments of protection, equipment, leadership to really ensure the most successful continuation of this operation. And I remind you of one truly appropriate success of our participation in the ISAF operation that during all these years the Republic of Croatia, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are one of the armed forces of one of the countries that has not suffered the victims in this operation. I think it's the best proof of training, preparation, leadership and command of our members in this operation. But given the strengthening of the challenge and the service of the security situation, what we will put emphasis on during this year and at later times is further strengthening based on lessons learned from all the necessary elements of the functioning of our Armed Forces in this operation. And in that sense, I am pleased to present to you the fact that we have introduced new instruments of preparation of the contingent in which the commander of the contingent participates over a long period of time, the certification of individual elements, individual components of the continent as well as the whole of the contingent. We recently had such a final exercise a few weeks ago during which the entire contingent was certified under the command of the national commander. So, based on the lessons learned, we apply a number of instruments that serve the increase in the first place of protection and, of course, related to the success and effectiveness of our contingent members. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, of course if there are any questions or suggestions I would be more than happy to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47933	Thank you. Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47934	Mr. President of the Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs. Good morning! I hope you slept well after yesterday's heated debate and didn't dream of Mladen Bajic last night while you were sleeping. Before we go, I would like to welcome all my comrades, members of the Croatian Army who are currently in the world on 11 missions of NATO, the UN and the European Union, and thus contribute to the peace and stability of the world, but in the best way possible they build the reputation of our beautiful one, and make it easier for us to travel to the European Union. Before I go any further, we heard from our Secretary Pierre that last year there were more visits and more senior delegations from the Republic of Croatia to Afghanistan. Almost a year and a half ago, I also prayed to the President of the Parliament and the Ministry of Defence that it would be good for a delegation of MPs to go for the first time to remind our forces up in Afghanistan. I think that would be convenient because we're deciding about them, we've made important decisions and I think it would be appropriate for us to, in that way, see how these people work, how they live, in what conditions. I think they would also be very glad if they knew that we were following their work and thinking about them here in the Parliament. On the issue of our engagement in Afghanistan, I would like to stress that the Republic of Croatia must have a clear strategy for its further engagement in this demanding operation. It may even be too soon today to talk about some exit strategy, but the Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Defense must... what objectives we want to achieve, political and military through the engagement of the Croatian Army in peacekeeping missions, operations, and what means, means and means to achieve these objectives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to say what are the optimal resources to achieve these goals, where we can move in some direction and you don't know when and how we're going, and make decisions on a daily basis, ad hoc decisions. We made a political decision in this House years ago to send our forces to a peace mission. We also made a decision on the size of the Republic of Croatia's forces. Somewhere today we have about 18200 soldiers with budget rebalancing, with the new budget we have reduced considerable resources for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. This is very bad for me today, the Croatian Army, the information I have and the talk with senior officers has problems with the funds. I must stress the concern for the general security of our forces in missions due to the major cuts in these funds to the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. Today we are located somewhere on the border of 1.4% of the budget, which is at the limit of functionality. I wonder if we can provide quality training, quality training, quality logistics for the forces in peace operations, given when we know today that most of the land forces are on a kind of forced vacation due to lack of funds. And these forces that are in Croatia today must prepare for the next operations, they must carry out training very quality in order to be able to carry out the tasks they have done worse. And I stress that safety issue, a very important segment and element, and it's great that we haven't had one until today... Members of the Croatian Army, but it can happen every day, and we have to do everything, but all these people up there have secured full logistics and complete security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Afghanistan is currently in transition, the Afghan people deserve real assistance from the international community and I personally believe that our contribution must be aimed at building Afghan security forces. This is the key upstairs and it is necessary to think about the organisation and grouping of our abilities in Afghanistan. We need functional and territorial reorganization of forces, and I believe that from a military point of view it is entirely justified to reduce our waste in Afghanistan. I've said it many times before and warned, although now I know you're thinking about the Ministry of Defense and... He's thinking about that variant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The way we're gonna get it? We'll get easier management and command of forces. Today the commander of the force in... It's located 500 kilometers away from the army that's been subordinated to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We'll make it easier to transport. We send our forces up more than once today, we hire the transport we probably have to and pay so that we can make a shift, a complete shift in one... Upwards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We'll provide more quality logistics, ensure more quality security of power. If the upper forces are located in five places, security is absolutely going to be harder to secure in a way than to have people in one place and thus to control both the discipline and order of what comes with it. To that end, I suggest we consider the deployment of our forces to only two locations in Kabul and... Our significant contribution may be if we offer that training special... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Afghan armies, such as helicopters, MiG17 conducted by the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we're thinking today in NATO, and they could probably finance it... its funds or our strategic allies, and the contribution of the Afghan army would be far more significant than it is now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] NATO would appreciate it much more. During my visit to NATO, I personally became convinced that our officers in the functional area of logistics, artillery, engineering are highly respected and wanted by NATO. One instructor in Afghanistan is worth 10 soldiers. We send 50 instructors that's equivalent to 500 people up there. The coefficient for one soldier is 0.25%, gentlemen know it, and I think that in this context we have to watch how to have some exit strategy to send up top top instructors who can train say from pilots, they're interested very Americans, for MIG17 to gunner helicopters, because... which has proved... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the conditions above and perhaps even the Americans put her into office of their forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Peace and stability cannot be exported or exported, but peace and stability can be made. As far as the international community's strategy towards Afghanistan is concerned, we keep hearing that it needs to be comprehensive and that there is not only a military solution to Afghanistan. I wish that comprehensive approach could be seen in our strategy towards Afghanistan. I also believe that the international community cannot only create a professional army in Afghanistan and that the mere copying of the Iraqi model cannot be an adequate response. The mixed model of professionals combined with compulsory service is the best and cheapest model, the model of building stability in conflict and postconflict societies. I therefore expect that our advice and experience help the international community to develop capable and functional Afghan security forces as soon as possible, which will be able to enable functional action and security in Afghanistan itself. I expect from our institutions in the Republic of Croatia above all the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the MUP to make a maximum effort not only in the systematic management of our troops, but also in the equipment and modernisation of our abilities in order to achieve adequate training, training and preparation of our soldiers for the tasks they perform with complex conditions of the international environment. The report itself says there is a need to further strengthen the logistics segment, due to the element of security, given the increase in security threats. We had a recent attack in the center of Kabul, and it was for the first time solved by forces, the very forces of Afghan security. Of course we have to fix that segment of buying motor vehicles, the system of connections we've heard has already been solved, although it's a long-term shopping process. Now that we've joined NATO, it'll make it easier to get all these things. So the logistics support itself and the preparation should be carried out better with a plan-based approach, determining competence and obligations. For example. We don't have the required standards and operational procedures, I spoke to an officer, an intelligence officer who came from Kabul, and he tells me that members of the ISAF mission didn't charge... First aid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They have to do it as a supplemental... They have to go before they leave, I'm just saying, a few soldiers in one-tenth must have an extra... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , for a medical technician, for a binder and thus to provide people with what is necessary in the tasks of life, when they are life-threatening. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that our members of the Croatian Army in high-risk missions should have a better co-operation system. It's important and crucial to me. The secretary said we didn't even have... Up there, but that could happen tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the event of death and severe wounding, I suggest that these people deal with something similar to the Law on Croatian Defence, how we solved people in the Homeland War. This way and this system of cooperation isn't good for me. I suggest we rehabilitate with members of the Croatian Army returning from Afghanistan. We've got power up there three times. That's what I was talking about. We have to build a major rehabilitation center, it could be anywhere at sea, for example. in Duylov, and for all defenders, of course, for other people, and down we must do prevention, rehabilitation of members of the armed forces who return from various missions. It is a very important task, we have done nothing in this field so far and I think it is one of the obligations of the Ministry of Defence, the Chief Staff of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health to make something more in this context and in this segment. We must also mention the need for a medal. That's what I talked about more than once. The practice of NATO countries is that after each mission, a soldier who spends a certain amount of time in a certain space gets a medal for Afghanistan,... It's a high-rise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're not, we're in cascade here, they're banal things, but they're so valuable to every soldier, officer, officer, and I think we should do it as soon as possible and thus provide the same moral support for people who go on various missions out. I'm going to ask the Department of Defense what happened to four soldiers who refused orders upstairs, whether the proceedings were closed, whether people were freed or maybe punished. Mr. Secretary, you have not carried out the task of the Defence Committee, you have not committed yourself to informing the Defence Committee, what has happened to these four soldiers. In this way, the Defence Committee... Oversight, the constitutional category is, you must respect the committee's decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here it would be logical, completely logical, which is a practice in other countries, especially NATO, that the Chief of Staff sometimes comes to talk about the situation in the Croatian Army. It's '47, '54. I don't know Montgomery worked in the English Parliament. And the other Chief of Staff should come here. Sometimes it's a matter of profession. Especially when we talk about a half-year-old report on the Croatian forces' combat preparedness. I think we need to change that. That it's not a good way to just come here a defense minister who's by nature a civilian or a secretary who's also a civilian. There are a lot of professional questions that I would like to refer to the Chief of Staff because it is a pure profession. And that is why I propose that in the next reports, in the future reports on the combat preparedness of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, there be a chief of staff present here who can answer certain questions concerning the profession. We will support the report of course, but I would ask the Ministry of Defence to consider these few proposals that it does not make it difficult for a few years and that some things, that the minister reacts to some things much faster and more quality than it does today. I say small things, banal things for soldiers are sometimes very important, very important and his engagement will be much better, more quality if we give him that other dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47935	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47936	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. After nearly 7 years of participation of the representatives of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of the Interior, but we must not forget our diplomats. So, the foreign ministry's representative in this risky, important NATO peace operation in distant Afghanistan, I would say very simply we here in the Croatian Parliament can and must be proud of everything our soldiers, officers, officers, diplomats and police officers have done for the Republic of Croatia and for international peace in this demanding operation. We must be really proud and I've pointed out more than one of the best Croatian diplomats were Croatian police officers at the Kabul International Airport. Hundreds of delegations, each accompanied by the Croatian Armed Forces Military Police, a Croatian flag on those vehicles. This was certainly an important political impact that took place in the space of all those who decided to enter Croatia into full NATO membership in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006. That is why we must be proud of what they have done in every way. Especially in political terms. Thanks to their involvement, their professionalism has made Croatia a full member of NATO. We must also be proud to have been previously said here by the esteemed representative Kotromanović and for safety because being 7 years in such a space is almost a few thousand people, without the dead, without the badly wounded one is a good indicator of professionalism, discipline, seriousness, good decision, good training, good selection. It's all important to point out. All of this is important to point out because this system of quality personal selection, that the training and training system did not function impeccably, that standard operating procedures were not fully respected would not really be able to conclude that the Croatian contingent had successfully carried out its task in every respect. Both political and security, etc. However, certainly when people are in such places and in the field of combat operations, although it should be pointed out that our soldiers, officers do not participate directly in combat operations, this certainly has an impact on the likelihood of suffering, the important factor in all this is happiness. All those who have had experience in war and combat operations know and have feelings of how many times for trivial reasons people remain, I will not say trivial, objective reasons, the situation in which they are present, remain and live, are badly wounded, etc. A number of improvised explosive devices, opposing drug dealers, etc., are all very risky operations and here it is really important to conclude that during this whole period Croatian officers, police officers, diplomats have done their job professionally, correctly. Several general findings, almost eight years after the beginning of the peace operation in Afghanistan, Afghanistan is today without any exaggeration we can say the top political theme of the modern world. The top security theme of the modern world. Look at CNN, look at Russia Today or I don't know the BBC for almost a few hours a day is dedicated to this topic. Why? With justification and a lot of reasons. Solutions are being sought, one-off efforts by the entire international community headed by the UN are being made. The UN mission in Afghanistan is missing, NATO's efforts, the EU's efforts are nearly 45 countries participating in the operation. I will mention only some of the countries that maybe ordinary citizens don't believe are involved in these operations: Korea, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and many others. Almost 100,000 soldiers, looking for solutions. Solutions are not simple. The expected solutions are one thing, reality is another. What solutions really exist, what solutions are available with the appropriate resources, that's another question. Searching for a solution is a serious political effort for all those who form political decisions by the International Community, NATO, NATO bodies, the North Atlantic Council, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, etc. As far as our engagement in Afghanistan is concerned, the international community can tell the upper limits of its capabilities. This is no exaggeration, in financial, material and any other respect. New administration, new ideas. It is very important for the political scene on the solution to the crisis situation in Afghanistan that some people who once had very important tasks and roles in these areas return. Like Mr. Holbrook, U.S. mission representative Afghanistan Pakistan. There's also once an American ambassador known in these areas, Mr. Galbrate, who, unfortunately, has been stormed out of these areas for various reasons we can't talk about right now. Yet some parallels can retreat with what has been happening in these areas and what is happening in Afghanistan. NATO entered the premises of Bosnia and Herzegovina in '95. years through the IFOR mission. It was NATO's first peace operation. 60,000 people, tanks, armored forces, something that was almost inappropriate in Bosnia and Herzegovina's space. I remember this operation very well before the end of the war. At that time, as Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, I had a very important and responsible task of taking off with the rest of the state bodies in the best possible way. How did NATO get into Afghanistan? NATO entered Afghanistan in 2003, which is nearly tens of times larger than Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which security, political and any other situation is far more complex, far more demanding with tens of thousands of troops at Kabul International Airport and then at Kabul's premises. It was certainly unrealistic to expect that these forces could achieve the ambitious political goals that the international community had in its field of vision. And that is why when we talk about the success or failure of the international community in Afghanistan, we need to take care of the reality and complexity of the problem. In 2003 Kabul and the surroundings of Kabul then north of 2004 where the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, Mazare Sharif, Fezabad, etc. Expansion to the West of Harad, then south and finally crucial, I would say perhaps the final operations of the international forces are tied to Kandahar for various reasons. At least politically, much more than the fact that drugs from these areas with the financing of international terrorism, the financing of the Taliban, Al-Qa'idu etc. And we can expect these forces to be almost 100,000 to come out firmly on the Pakistani border and come into the sphere of time when it is possible to talk about an exit strategy. It is certainly unrealistic to talk about an exit strategy with fixed dates and fixed deadlines. The exit strategy seems to me that at the end of this year it will be clearer, more visible and more comprehensive, especially when the appropriate forces are deployed to the south of the international community. A few words about our forces. I spoke several times in the Croatian Parliament in order to be wise for various reasons to have integrated Croatian forces, 150 of them, 200 of them, 300 in certain areas to take over a perhaps more demanding, more concrete task such as supervision of a provincial reconstruction team. Our forces are dispersed on a whole series of different spaces, and then it's complex logistics, so I'd say security, communication requirements. And that's a problem to think about. But it should also be taken care of when the forces are generated, then it is not only in the power of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, but those institutions of NATO that are responsible and competent for this task. Croatia in its generation of forces and the formation of forces for this operation has achieved an enviable I would say level of specialist education and abilities and our so-called The omelet teams have more and more important I would say very important training, or homework, in the training of the Afghan Armed Forces, so-called. The ANAs of the Afghan National Police. According to the rulings, these training mentor teams are the critical point that needs to be strengthened as much as possible in the next period. The mentoring teams and the fact that they have multinational character is very important. The composition of the representatives of the Ministry of Defence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the representative of our partner state of Minnesota gives this omelet an international dimension. It is certainly important and the fact that in the future they are expected in view of the character of the operation to make this civilian component in Afghanistan more pronounced and more important, because the stabilisation of society cannot be conducted exclusively through the role of the task of armed forces and more and more must be emphasized. In this respect, co-operation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence is very important. I don't think it's too much to say and emphasize here, and when we shouldn't, and we haven't decided to participate in this demanding peace operation, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia should have such operations so that they can properly test and keep their abilities at a high level of professional readiness. Another question that deserves special attention. We're almost talking about him. And so it will be until something happens. PTSD evaluation of mental combat preparedness is something to be considered. But the data shows that PTSD prevention among troops in Iraq, Afghanistan, is almost 15%. And these data warns that among those returning from peacekeeping operations there are people with serious mental problems and difficulties. Scrining the surveillance of these people requires joint effort. I can tell myself I have participated and run several NATO projects, several NATO scientific projects that pay particular attention to this dimension. And I would ask that in the future not only in this report, but in the state of the Armed Forces, we give this problem a little more attention. Because it's a good preventive measure so things don't happen that nobody in Croatia wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47937	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Damir Cain's turn on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47938	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. First, I think this is a maximum correct report and as such it is clear that everyone will support it or at least I suppose. The second thing I intend to say or perhaps I should have started to congratulate our soldiers on the courage, on the sacrifice, on the professionalism, on the risk they pose in that unknown country. True, Croatian soldiers are professionals who will say they are for their engagement and paid. They don't go there against their will. However, what I have reported but and for which I have praised this report is this security situation which is certainly not good there, so it is said that the reporting period marks a general increase in the level of uncertainty and instability throughout Afghanistan, which is what all the contingent components are facing, although not to the same extent. The increase in the number of incidents, incident situations and direct and security threats for those involved in the ISAF peace operation for the Croatian contingent was not due to human or significant material damage. When it comes to the security situation, then I quote, it is said that during the reporting period there has been a further deterioration of the security situation throughout Afghanistan, the activation and intensification of the activities of the rebel forces throughout Afghanistan, resulting in an increase in the number of incidents exposed to ISAF forces, as well as pressure exposed to the local population. The final stage of registering voters for the presidential elections held in August 2009 otherwise in a quieter period of the year marked an increase in uncertainty levels, etc. And what's certainly the most important thing here is I quote that the crisis hotspots appear in until then relatively safe northern Afghanistan. It should be borne in mind that our soldiers are stationed there in Kabul and then continues and the relatively isolated, peaceful, mountainous part of the West is also covered by intense rebel activities. Kabul by 2009, the relatively safest zone lost its status by attracting the attention of the rebels due to high-value targets. The overall assessment of the degree of threat of contingent members during the reporting period ranged from low to significant, and did not quote everything else. So, we can today conclude that in those parts of the country or Afghanistan where our military situation is stationed security is... Changed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, far more are killed in one Afghanistan than in Iraq, for example. Afghanistan today is becoming an extremely insecure area, and I'm afraid as far as this uncertainty is concerned, it will eventually be even more insecure. On the other hand, I personally do not believe in NATO's success in Afghanistan. And as is said around the world about the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan, for example, in Italy, Canada, etc. In a moment, God forbid someone gets hurt and the Croatian withdrawal contingent might start talking in Croatia, even though we all know that the soldiers who are there chose the call as a life call. If someone asked me if I could do what I could do with those soldiers, I'd pull the troops right away because I'm afraid someone's gonna get hurt there. Our presence of that contingent of three hundred soldiers at this time on an annual level costs about three hundred million kuna, a circus of 1 million kuna per soldier. We're listening to some guards, we're reading, we don't even know exactly what they're "on vacation" to put it that way. Our military budget is made equivalent to about 4.5 billion kuna, never less. It's a waste of modernization and we can see that the contingent alone costs about three hundred million kunas. About one-tenth of the Croatian military budget is set aside for Croatian soldiers abroad. We're reading something in the morning about Patria but let it go for another chance. What's certainly a question of whether this mission will succeed in my being honest with you. I'm afraid when I tell me then I think of NATO as a whole that in Afghanistan it will pass as Russians. We're gonna ask ourselves one day what we were doing there, why we were there. Everything becomes normal when it comes to success questionable and perhaps you should also consider withdrawing troops from Afghanistan. The truth is, we must acknowledge to ourselves both in front of the world and in front of God that Croatia was also receiving military help. Without UNPROFOR, it would probably be different in those war years from 91 to 95, so we can say freely until the peaceful reintegration of 98. The war in these places would certainly have been a lot more ruthless than it was. But I'm also asking myself whether the Afghans want NATO or American soldiers at the moment. I'm afraid not, and if that country doesn't accept them, then the question is, can the mission succeed? Afghanistan is a country the size of almost a third of Europe with 30 maybe several million inhabitants. It's a mountain masseuse. Pakistan is there in the neighborhood, and the question is whether a country like this can be controlled with an existing or significantly larger contingent. The question arises what will happen tomorrow with one Iran, with their atomic program. I'm afraid and I'm afraid to think, but I'm sure there's no movement for the better at this point in Afghanistan, and when we leave the country to the Afghan authorities, I'm afraid it'll all return to its positions before or after 9/11. That's why I think Afghanistan defends itself by building roads, building hospitals, schools and things like that, not rifles. God forbid I'm wrong, but I think my fears will finally prove right. As far as the report itself is concerned that I am not talking about other moments, it is sincere, it is maximumly correct and so understandable that this Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan should be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47939	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, the SDA, Mr. Representative Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47940	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission in Afghanistan for the period 1 April 2008. - On 30 September 2009, I and I would like to remind you, the Government has properly delivered to the Parliament on the basis of point 4. Decisions on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan have been duly fulfilled. I would like to say, first of all, that the HSLS and the SDA of Croatia supports this report by considering that the report is sufficiently extensive, perfectly structured, very clear and concrete. In particular, we point out that the report in all parts is realistic and objective with a true assessment of the performance of the action and the emphasis on the observed shortcomings in the necessary guidelines for improvement. It should certainly be pointed out that the participation of the Republic of Croatia in international peace operations places the Republic of Croatia among the responsible members of the International Community who are willing to take over their part of the burden and responsibility. And that this is also the case with the fact that Croatia today participates in more than 10, 13 peacekeeping missions around the world. There are few countries that can boast of such a strong peace engagement in the joint operations of the United Nations, NATO and the European Union. It should certainly be pointed out that just over a thousand 200 Croatian officers, officers and soldiers were once, twice, and some even three times in an international operation outside the country. The Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army has so far conspired more than 20,000 people on these tasks, which means that demanding reforms have been carried out in which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia adopted the most modern standards of action, which is certainly commendable. That's exactly what the operation in Afghanistan confirms. Croatia is a responsible ally, Croatia behaves responsibly, and this is also the fact that our man, Major Ivan Galovic, is the first Croatian officer to command US troops in NATO's mission in Afghanistan. The peace missions in which the Croatian Army participates, and especially the mission in Afghanistan, gave the Croatian military a recognizable style, recognizable status, and in the area of Southeast Europe gave it what I don't think we are even contesting, we do not deny almost leadership status. We can therefore be extremely pleased that in the peace operations we contribute to the development of the operational capabilities of the European Union, it is not for us to act in joint operations that we are involved in creating and maintaining peace in other environments and, in particular, as an exceptional quality that we are involved in managing post-conflict situations. Our participation in peace operations is one of the points of the inevitable that will help Croatia enter the European Union. The club of the representatives of HSLS and the SDA of Croatia believes that the report should certainly highlight several important facts. The reporting period marks a general increase in the level of uncertainty and instability throughout Afghanistan. The increase in the number of incident situations and direct security threats for participants in the peace operation in Afghanistan for the Croatian contingent was not due to human or significant material damage. I would like to remind you that in October 2008, the commander of the operation, the US General, requested an immediate increase in the number of armed forces due to the growing threat of Taliban and Al-Qa'ida. Unfortunately, there were dead soldiers from the peace operation, but not from our contingent. Secondly, members of the Croatian contingent, it should also be pointed out, acted professionally, disciplinedly and successfully in carrying out their tasks. By their work and behaviour they also contributed to the reputation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, as well as to the Republic of Croatia as a whole. Certain shortcomings in the mission in Afghanistan, which is the exceptional quality of the Croatian Army, have been seen quickly, such as the need to strengthen the safety of the Croatian contingent through the purchase of a ballistic protection vehicle and means of communication, the use of experience of previous rotations, strengthening the psychological readiness of individuals and the appropriate preparation through NATO courses. This report could still be discussed, however, it is certainly necessary to thank the report and thank the members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in Afghanistan for everything they have done for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, for the Republic of Croatia and for the peace and development of the country in which they are located. Just in conclusion, due to the numerous commendations of the partner armed forces that speak about the success of the Croatian contingent in Afghanistan, the HSLS and SDA of Croatia will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47941	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47942	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of the debate, we would like to say that we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this text of the report in question, but we also want to believe that it is good about this peace operation and to highlight some facts. The participation and gradual strengthening of our capabilities to 300 members in this peace operation confirms commitment to the objectives of the anti-terrorism coalition and thus strengthens Croatia's political and military credibility as members of the NATO Alliance. Analyzing the Croatian contribution so far, we believe that our contingents are well prepared to successfully represent the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, as well as that they have adapted well to the conditions on the ground, mode of operation and operation in the mission. Of course, there were sometimes problems with filling up, as well as refurbishing equipment, weapons, means of transport, communication opportunities, and living and working conditions. According to our knowledge, the problems are now reduced to a minimum. We in Croatia are expressing little concern with the gradual deterioration of the security situation in locations where our members are stationed, and in recent times because of the controversial forms of non-discipline which, unfortunately, wanted me to or not, sometimes leaves a different picture of the professionality of the members of our contingent. There is a possibility that representatives in the Croatian Parliament will be given one of the more difficult decisions if they will eventually have a change of mandate in terms of offensive action to carry out anti-terrorist or anti-narcotic operations, and not as before when our members do not have such a mandate as well as declared capacity to carry out offensive combat operations. We clearly mean cases of direct self-hazard of our own safety. Such a decision will have to be consistent with our national interests and the interests of our members as well as the financial opportunities of the Republic of Croatia. Also, if we are to have representatives put forward a decision that will result in a self-increased number of members without changing the current mandate, we believe that it could cause some confusion or additional difficulties. Today it has already been highlighted several times, and I will repeat the known problem of dislocated forces in the mission at some 4 or 5 locations in Afghanistan, and different rotation dates, different commanders, different tasks and responsibilities. All this represents a marked disadvantage for coordination, control, supply of forces, an additional increase in the number of our members in the Commission over 300 would surely bring their problems, challenges and tasks to be met as well as the tasks of the Ministry of Defence, and in particular the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the management and management structure as a whole. Mostly because this mission is unquestionable by the scope and structure of the activity must be most demanding in relation to other missions around the world involving Croatia and international partners. As usual, we from the Croatian Peasant Party club at the end of our debate want to commend and welcome all members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, and the civilian staff involved in peace operations around the world and we want them to return happily to their families. From the all-exposed club of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the content of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47943	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47944	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning of the presentation I will immediately say that the Croatian People's Party club will also support this report, but let me say a few words in connection with three parts of the report itself. In fact, there are three elements on page three that I think we should talk about here a little bit more. In particular, it says that Croatia has stepped up its efforts in the ISAF peacekeeping mission. Secondly, that she has brought her priorities into line with NATO's demands. And third, that the Republic of Croatia will contribute to the ISAF exit strategy in Afghanistan. As far as the report itself is concerned, it correctly demonstrated the situation and the actions of our soldiers and officers in Afghanistan, the security situation was correctly presented, it was said to be complicated practically from day to day because now it is no longer clear that the north and west of Afghanistan can be declared peaceful areas. And that's where the Taliban enters more and more and more and more and more, attack individual facilities. A presentation of the schedules of our forces by locations, components, or units in which they work is given are all their tasks and their work has been evaluated. We have no objection here, and we really need to congratulate our soldiers and officers in Afghanistan. What is missing, however, may be this report, and it certainly interests our citizens, and all of us here are financial indicators. We can indirectly conclude them through the budget and budget projection. But it would be good to say right away that Croatia is singleing out and will set aside this year for peacekeeping missions, and I would like to say that 75% of the peacemakers are in Afghanistan right now, we will set aside between 300 million and 400 million kuna. Next year, we intend to increase the allocation for peacekeeping missions by 30%, 30%, which means that every soldier in the peace mission costs the Republic of Croatia about million kuna a year. If we multiply it by a modest number of 400 soldiers it's already 400 and something million kuna. I would like to say that we in the Croatian People's Party absolutely support peace missions, but we are looking for some balance. Croatia is 14 countries, contributing to a 40-nation peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan. However, Croatia is not in 14 places and in economic strength, according to the GDP per capita. We're probably about 30, 35. So we make a much greater contribution than we really should if we take into account some material, monetary indicators. Especially me as a scientist, here are the young people at our gallery, for all Croatian scientific and research projects in which 10,000 Croatian scientists participate Croatia allocates 200 million kuna per year. So, half as much as for 400 soldiers on peacekeeping missions. Maybe that's a good thing. Maybe not. I think we need to talk about this. In particular, we need to talk because many international organisations have asked us to draw much more out for education and science. According to the Bologna Declaration, we had a commitment by this year 2010 to increase the scientific isolation to 3% of gross social product. We've arrived colleagues and colleagues at 0.8%, not 3%, 0.8%, and the ratios when we compare certain activity activities seem not ideal. In addition, there will be occasional situations where unexpected additional costs will occur. Look what happened to Germany. Under the pressure of the public of the mistakes committed, the civilians who have suffered, the German government will give, or damage,... The great money of Afghan civilians and families who were killed by the action of their units in Afghanistan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, regarding the financial item, as a member of this Parliament, it is easier for me to obtain data related to the plans of the US administration in connection with Afghanistan in the following year, I read that there will be a withdrawal of a significant part of their units, and we in that '11. We plan to increase the isolation by 30%, and they cut it by 10, 15, 30%, but they can't say exactly how much, but the plan is to cut it down. So it would be worth discussing here the secretary of state how to increase it, and the others in next year are shrinking. Furthermore, with a rifle, we won't be able to secure... strategy, exit strategy from Afghanistan is provided through economic activities, through the construction of schools, hospitals, roads, factories, it is an exit strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We should seem to make a major qualitative shift in the work of the Parliament when it comes to peacekeeping missions, especially those in which NATO plays a significant role. My colleagues and colleagues, five of us or five parliamentary deputies, I'm not in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, but five of us are sitting there, our colleagues. What are they supposed to do there? Represent your position or our attitude? To offer our opinions or just your own opinions? To offer a party opinion or opinion of the Croatian Parliament. I think we should step forward in this regard, that we, too, who are sitting in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and those who are sitting in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and in other delegations, are essentially taking the main messages from here, which is what and how Croatia wants to do in these organisations. I don't know anything about that exit strategy, I don't have feedback, and I'd like to know it. Then I can raise my hand for increased funds from the budget, then I can raise my hands for some extra activity in this area, this is how we really stay in one air-free space without adequate information. So, I thank the Secretary of State who in the opening statement completed this written report that we have ahead of us, but it would be good for us to say more about future actions and activities in these peace missions, of course we can't go into details, but at least something planned, some strategic moves to get in writing, so we can talk about them, I repeat, just to be the State Secretary guidelines for both your work and for the work of our colleagues in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47945	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Agent Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47946	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that the problems of Afghanistan cannot be solved from abroad, but the fact is the same that these problems create problems around the world, and they open debates, such as ours in the Croatian Parliament today. An attempt to recapitulate the effects of the international community in Afghanistan over the past 10 years has happened recently in London at a conference dedicated to the country. I think a quote deserves to be said here so we can really make a good introduction to our debate today. In fact, the conference in London has shown that the time of illusion has passed. Dreams of the bright future of Afghanistan have not become public. Donor countries have become aware that corruption, drugs and Taliban in Afghanistan will never disappear. All of this has changed views, so you can say business. Now no more rehearsals will be made and money will be thrown away without any control. The international community wants to create a stability base in Afghanistan as soon as possible and finally wake up from a nightmare in which it suffered losses. The end of the quote. In order to truly understand what efforts are being made and our soldiers in Afghanistan should say that last 2009 was the bloodiest for the allies since the beginning of the war. Since the beginning of 2009, 301 American soldiers have been killed, while 294 dead Allied soldiers have been killed throughout 2008, of which 155 Americans. Unfortunately, the same trend of violence has remained in this 2010 as more than 20 soldiers from international forces have died since the beginning of the year. The Taliban's attacks are growing stronger, and half of January saw the attack on Kabul at the presidential palace. It was only after a day of hard fighting that the rebels were forced out of the capital. So far, 235 British soldiers have been killed in Afghanistan since 98 of them last year. Due to the deterioration of general security, the United Nations withdrew 600 members of its people from the country in early November 2009. The US Force Commander in Afghanistan Stanley McCrystal was already mentioned here, which last year presented a report assessing the situation about this way. In the military field this war cannot be won, but without enough military force it can be lost. The biggest problem is that the Afghan population does not see the benefits of the ISAF presence, and that it is increasingly losing confidence in its own politicians. The whole mission in Afghanistan has suffered a lack of staff and money, and unfortunately it continues. The Afghan army with 92 thousand soldiers is still weak because it takes as much as 240 thousand, and the police have only half the necessary 160,000 police officers. Education of security forces lags behind the plan and not only are Croatian soldiers who complain about insufficient equipment for their mission in Afghanistan, and if you had the opportunity to read the report more carefully we saw that in September last year there were also certain problems, disciplinary character in our... which I believe were removed in the best way, which is to increase the safety of our soldiers by sending and adequate equipment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in order to frame all this military effort in the real picture, it is necessary to say that today, in Afghanistan, a total of 250,000 Americans, NATO allies, domestic soldiers and police officers with approximately 25 to 30,000 Taliban are struggling. So the ratio is almost 1 to 10. An increase in the anti-Taliban troops contingent has been announced. But, of course, we are now moving to the other side of the Afghan problem, and we should mention once more the notor fact that other than the Taliban, the threat is not only in Afghanistan, but in the whole world, opium growers. Tragedy institutions of government are traditionally a bait for crime of every kind. According to some data, even 60% of the economy there has just been composed of drug industry activities. It should be said that opium production flourished after the Taliban ruled Afghanistan, where more than 90% of the world's demand for opium is still produced, which is of course used in heroin production. Here, although security is a key issue in the new UN report, it proves that corruption in Afghanistan is an even more serious threat than the security standards themselves. I quote: "Corruption is the biggest problem the people in Afghanistan now face. Even bigger than the rebels and the poverty. Corrupt officials in their pockets turn about a quarter of the country's total product, which is about 2.5 billion dollars." In order to gain additional insight into the state of the Afghan society, according to the latest data, the illiteracy rate in Afghanistan is 64%. Of course we're all wondering where the way out of this decades-old Afghan nightmare is. British Foreign Minister David Miliband, believes and is not the only one in the position to include Taliban rebels who wish to participate in the government. Miliband said that we know that the key is to ensure the reintegration of the rebels who are willing to live in accordance with the Afghan Constitution, defend the people, not attack them. That's what I had a chance to talk to two Afghans recently here in the Croatian Parliament. These were really valuable partners on this subject, and this is about Mrs. Fatima Gailani, who is the president of the Afghan Red Crescent and was, of course, with her in the delegation and Mr. Nesimi, a journalist. I must say that they thanked Croatia's contribution to peace building, but pointed out that Afghanistan needs more experts, not soldiers. Both agreed that instead of increasing the number of international military forces, more funds should be sent to build infrastructure, hospitals and schools. Mrs. Gailani also said they were in a vicious circle. Where do you start with building land? By creating security, building justice or building an economy. Mr. Nesimi warned of the growing gap between the authorities and the people, the city and the village because the security situation had improved somewhat. Only in some cities, but not in the country. And access to education and employment is available to the city and little or no village population. I asked Mrs. Gailna how she estimated the chances of an average Afghan in the city and in the country that after 10 years of military intervention and efforts of the International Community would acquire decent education and become involved in the world of work? She said in town it's possible, but in the country it's absolutely impossible. In other words, civil and political goals are equally important with military objectives. In particular, building infrastructure, creating conditions for the economic development of the country, education of the population, civil society, and fighting drug trafficking. It is good that the Republic of Croatia continues with civil humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. First of all, financial donations to the women of Afghanistan and assistance for the construction of hospitals and schools. It is commendable that under a long-term Croatian plan to support the Afghan national development strategy, Croatia paid $50,000 in 2008 to support the International Food Organization's "Food for Education" programme in Afghanistan. And last December 8th, in the village of Layoba in the province of Badakhshan, a ceremony was held to hand over the basic health centre to the Ministry of Public Health of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. The construction of a health centre began in April 2009, and the project was implemented in collaboration with the International Organisation for Migration and was fully funded by the Republic of Croatia. However, I also conclude that security and good governance are the key to sustainable development, as it is said, but this is a goal that is unfortunately as far in Afghanistan today as it is in 2001 at the time of the intervention of America and its allies. But that doesn't discredit our efforts at all. We should congratulate the people who are in Afghanistan but we must truly be aware that this is an operation, if it remains only on its military component, it has a limited character. In which, unfortunately, the tragic history of Afghanistan has repeatedly witnessed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47947	Thank you very much. At 10:44 a.m., it's been 10 minutes. We have one replica, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47948	I think you said an extremely important sentence, assessing the possible success of the mission, the people of Afghanistan don't believe or believe in the success of the mission. This has been said in the last 2.3 months often, and we are now discussing this report based on what I would like Croatia to lead its policy in the future. A colleague, Doric, said that of the 40 countries participating in peacekeeping missions, Croatia is 14 in a row. Whatever criteria we apply, from GDP to the number of inhabitants of the 40 countries, we are certainly not 14 in force. Third, there is a dispute, and you have indicated that, is the exit strategy from Afghanistan a rifle or a rebuilding of society and state? This debate and possible our conclusions would only make sense under two conditions. First, that the Parliament should give its conclusions to our representatives in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to open these topics because I do not know what they are doing or who they represent there. Because otherwise, and I end up with that, all these discussions are unnecessary, or should we go ahead and get our own opinion in Washington. Because I'm afraid all these key answers to the key questions that you and Mr. Picula have asked, and before my colleague Doric, we will not define but Washington.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47949	Answer, Mr. Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47950	Answering, I would not say by replicating you because I agree with your approach to the problem of Afghanistan, I can only in some way support what Mr Ante Kotromanovic said in his debate, in order to avoid providing as much information as possible here in the form of conclusions as possible. It would be good if the delegation of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia were to travel to Afghanistan and to talk not only to our soldiers, of course, that would be the main goal of our departure, but also to talk to people on whom there is a far-reaching responsibility for the surplus of the international community in Afghanistan to become unnecessary. That means those who are currently struggling with even bigger problems than military conflict with the Taliban. I wish this was such a conclusion or a decision here we could make up and maybe it's already in the first half of this year and we could do it to maybe the next report, and we'll have it safe, we can run it based on our own experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47951	Thank you. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47952	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We received a report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Operation in Afghanistan from 1 April 2008 to 30 September 2009. It should be said first of all that the report has been made correct, transparent and quality. It shows what happened during the observed period and how the tasks were carried out by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia and before becoming a full member of the NATO alliance participated in numerous peacekeeping missions around the world. So right now at this time, the Croatian Parliament's decisions members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are participating in a total of 15 peacekeeping missions in the world. The Republic of Croatia currently has about 450 members of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions. The number of members of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions moves within the limits of the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia from 2006 to 2015. The largest number of members of the Armed Forces is in the ISAF Peace Mission in Afghanistan. There are now 295 members of the Croatian Army. The Croatian contingent located in Afghanistan consists of commanders of the National Intelligence Support Team, the National Logistic Support Team, the Task Force of the Military Police, the Task Force for the Protection of Forces, the Mobile Monitoring Team for Connection, the Operational Mentor Team for Connection, the Mixed Medical Team, the Staff of the provincial reconstruction teams and the Staff. Croatian contingents acted in the area of three regional command offices in Kabul, north and west. The largest number of members of the Croatian contingent are located in the regional command of the north, the rest are located in the Kabul and West regional command. They carry out their tasks independently of the national contingent and are exclusively in the international environment. The assessment is that there has been a deterioration of the security situation throughout the Afghanistan area during the observed period. The number of incidents exposed to ISAF forces has increased as well as the local population. There were no direct attacks on the members of our Armed Forces even though there were attacks on the bases in which the convoys took part. This resulted in material damage to motor vehicles. In these situations, our soldiers have shown professionalism and strict respect for security and command procedures. What has a significant impact on the performance of the tasks and security of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and with this we have had many problems in the past, these are material and technical means and equipment. But lately, and this has changed for the better, by increasing the scope and demand of the tasks of individual components, field work, mainly related to field work outside the base, require further improvements regarding motor vehicles and their maintenance, medical equipment and communication and information systems. A satisfactory level of communication equipment has been achieved, a new amount of motor vehicles have been purchased, something by their own means, and something by renting from the United States Armed Forces. For the field work of members of the Croatian Contingent it is extremely important to install an anti-electronic protection device on all vehicles in operational use, which increases the safety of improvised radio-operated explosive devices. Given the increase in security threats and the deterioration of the security situation in the field of peace operations, everything undertaken to strengthen the security of members of the Armed Forces is not sufficient. The purchase of motor vehicles with ballistic protection is required either by buying on the market or by renting from the United States Armed Forces. How successful members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are often praised and decorated for their professional activities. What I would like to emphasise is the moment when I and the entire Assembly delegation were extremely proud of our members of the Armed Forces in Afghanistan. The parliamentary delegation was at NATO headquarters in Brussels. And the biggest compliment I've heard is from an American general who at the end of the lecture told us representatives of the Croatian Parliament: "You know, gentlemen, when I go to Afghanistan, I am required to be guarded by members of the Armed Forces of Croatia to give me insurance." This is the best proof that our soldiers are being treated professionally and what their merit is amongst others because we are now a full member of the NATO Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47953	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47954	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot that's been said today. I'll look back on what I think is most important about this report. In late 2001, the UN-led peace support operation took part in the first year of 19 states, including Great Britain, Germany, the Netherlands and others. A military mission in Afghanistan since August 2003, led by NATO before NATO took over military operations in Afghanistan, took part in 26 countries with a circus of 5,000 and 400 troops. When NATO took over, it means other than NATO members 26 have taken part with 35 thousand 500 soldiers such as Australia, Albania, Austria, New Zealand and Switzerland. Our soldiers in the ISAF operation work as military instructors, including military instructors in mentoring teams, civil-military cooperation experts and regional development, reconstruction. The mentoring teams for training the Afghan army and police have seen many as one of the most important mechanisms for ending NATO's mission to be preceded by our mentor teams from the armed forces. Currently in Afghanistan, the army numbers 92 thousand soldiers and the estimate is that they should have 240 thousand soldiers. So, we need to train and equip another army contingent. The police currently have 84 thousand members and are projected to need about 160 thousand police officers. In the 25-year war in Afghanistan, the economy was nearly destroyed and it is one of the poorest countries, although indicators from 2001 to today show that GDP has grown three times, which is certainly quite weak for the development of a country that has been at war for so many years. And what I certainly consider most important in this operation is teams of military, civil cooperation, reconstruction and economic development, military training and police. We know that the army is a mechanism for a negotiating position, and when the army acquires, it frees one territory, and when the government of Afghanistan has enough troops and with the support of international all forces, then it will be able to negotiate with all those because no war has ended with a gun in its hand but at the negotiating table. What should be done to improve the conditions of our members in Afghanistan is that the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff should make additional efforts to get one of the commanding sectors to the Republic of Croatia. We have experienced trained generals who are war generals, who have passed all schools and I think they can lead these commands well and thus contribute to better conditions for our soldiers in Afghanistan. And in the end, I welcome all members of the Armed Forces and the MUP wherever they are on duty outside the country serving their country with honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47955	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47956	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State. I'd like to say a few more words that I haven't been able to say on behalf of the HDZ Club. But at the beginning of this individual exposure, I will repeat what I have pointed out and what many others have pointed out. We should be proud of everything they have done in this demanding peace operation Croatian soldiers, officers, officers, but not only them but also Croatian police officers. But let us also remember the Croatian diplomats who had very prominent, important places in the peace operation. One of our diplomats was an adviser to the United Nations High Representative in the peace operation and this enabled the Republic of Croatia to actively influence and shape NATO's policy in these areas. However, the problem of Afghanistan deserves one perhaps slightly broader political-security comment. I'm going to read a part of what the International Community is talking about more and more. One of the most famous, most respected journalists without the exaggeration of today's world, I hope you agree, Farid Zakaria. We can see him on Sundays on CCN's GPS. He wrote a strategy on Afghanistan "Time is" quoted me as saying "to be more realistic about the policy of the International Community in Afghanistan. Dragging is not a serious option. The United States, NATO and the European Union and many other countries have invested huge funds in the country over the past eight years, and surely for these reasons they will not give up or withdraw from this important international peace operation. He further noted in the introduction of the article: "But there is a big difference between the declared objectives and the available funds that the International Community invests in the peace operation. Unfortunately, money, people, the structure of the armed forces, the structure of civilians, the programmes are insufficient in view of these goals." And he stressed at the end of this introduction what is most important: "This problem can best be solved by not sending new tens of thousands of soldiers but by a better, more complete and fuller understanding of the limits of what is possible in Afghanistan in a truly understandable and justified way and realising it." In one of our lectures, we held secretaries together, we spoke at one of NATO's meetings, I stressed, and I think it repeats itself in the international community only 20% of the problems can be solved by armed forces and armed forces. 80% of the problems are far more complex. Best example, the best illustration is the situation and the situation almost after 15 years after the signing of the Dayton Agreement in our neighbouring friendly state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In just a few months, NATO's IFOR peacekeeping operation, and after that, ESFOR has established and resolved what the armed forces can solve and that is whether 20% or something more or less does not matter. The fact is that 80% of the problems that are far more complex today stand on the table and face them the International Community. The consistency of the international community's policy in Afghanistan is also a topic of frequent discussions in the International Community. The United States supports President Karzai, the good part not. Disputes, even the removal of one High Representative of the International Community of Ambassadors Galbraight and one example of these misunderstandings that the International Community has on its consistency, what, and how to establish an administration in the area. Narcotics, you know the subject well. 80% of the world's production of opium and heroin comes from these areas. The last place in Afghanistan that is a problem is Helmand province and this last operation aims to minimise the drug production financed by the Taliban and Al-Qa'id. Corruption, something we almost talked about yesterday, is quite present in those areas. I remember a conversation with Afghanistan's Deputy Interior Minister in Kabul when drug problems were discussed, he was seriously bringing up all sorts of problems. Afterwards, experts from the United Nations told us he is one of the main participants in the corruption chain. Therefore, undeveloped democracy, dysfunctional institutions, all of this in some way points to the complexity of the problem. What I'd like to say more about, which is why I've come forward with this part of the discussion, is about the reconstruction of Afghanistan. The reconstruction of Afghanistan is a job within which the International Community plays a large role and invests large and significant funds. In all of this, the Republic of Croatia and its economy, especially under the conditions of the crisis, can find certain niches within which Croatian companies Končar, Dalekovod, etc., can have an active position. I remember one trip to Kabul airport. Almost a few hundred meters, and you probably know it well, you see huge commercials of globalized, world economy Siemens, Nokia, Ericsson etc. For these reasons, during my second visit, I requested talks in the United States. Does the Croatian economy have those niches within which our companies can hire their own people? They said here for that year, 2006 or 2007 an allocated billion euros. Here's your niche, sectors of the economy, water, etc. I was surprised and passed it on to Croatian companies. After that I talked and had the opportunity to have a very cooperative and well-intentioned conversation with the Minister of Energy and Water, Mr... or the minister... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] who once led a command in Herat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They said Concar's generators, the Concar's hydropower plant come, you have the means, you can work. A good opportunity, an opportunity that still stands, but an opportunity that is untapped. Understandably, the risks are high, our companies are difficult to decide, we do not have an embassy and this problem should be solved if the Croatian economy wants to take a few billion-dollar cookie or the euro that the International Community, the European Union, the EBRD invests in these areas. But the economy won't work unless people, professionals, soldiers, officers who were in these peace operations follow them. And unfortunately we have war veterans who have experienced a top professional affirmation, I don't want to talk about names, in Iraq, now go to Afghanistan and work for other companies to allow them to implement their economic programs. For this reason, I strongly support the idea that we really have an agency that will allow Croatian war veterans and professionals to contribute to the participation of the Croatian economy in these areas. Another illustration. I remember very well talking to people, young Bosnians who worked on Butmir. They went to Bagram Airport. I asked them guys how much you got a month's pay. Five to ten thousand dollars. Five to ten thousand dollars. So, one professional officer, Captain, Major, etc. When he retires, he gets 2, 3 or 4 thousand kuna. However, he is given the opportunity to earn between seven and ten thousand dollars in those areas by doing almost the same jobs he once did in collaboration with the peace forces either in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or Bosnia and Herzegovina or elsewhere. A hundred people, $1 million a month. Therefore, to create jobs, to be well-known, it is exactly the same way that we must think about when we look at opportunities for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in all these peace operations. And finally, I will say a very simple, certainly comprehensive approach, military forces, police, diplomacy, doctors, economy, but also Croatian science. The other day a prominent American magazine "CyberPsychology & Behavior Social Networking" article by Croatian scientists. It doesn't matter that the leader of this team is Kreso Cosic... etc., I don't want to bother you with this, how to apply new technologies to changing the mental maps of the local population that will play a decisive role in solving the crisis in Afghanistan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47957	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47958	Mr. Representative, you've been talking about a series of important, important things like exit strategy, an economy where you can... Up in Afghanistan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You mentioned this agency that would hire war veterans, members of special forces and members of the Guard brigades. That's what I've been talking about for almost a year now, and I think we need one such agency for two reasons. First, they'd gather war veterans in place, they're people who are constantly in training. I compared them once as trained, trained top fighters, about like pit bulls that we're going to put on the street and we don't know what we're going to do with them later. They would be great people who could do certain jobs in Croatia, for example They would fully relieve the Croatian Army, a professional army that deals with providing unnecessary facilities and, of course, cannot do what is primary and interest, which is quality training, training training, etc. And secondly, we don't have a reservation. We have planned a reserve of about 2,000 soldiers, but we haven't developed any reservations. The same officers, officers in the event of any need may be used as commanders in that reserve brigade, the equivalent of that brigade. And not to say that the practice of NATO, England, Australia and other countries is to use former officers in missions not combat missions, but UN missions. They hire their officers when they are overloaded and when they have more missions of the type of Iraq and Afghanistan, they use the people from the reserve and send them to the UN missions where we send our active officers. The position of an active officer on a UN mission is a complete waste of time. He should be brought back to function later, returned to normal function by the combat team. And I think in that context we can do a lot more and I think the Secretary of Defense must be more determined. He has to take action. He's the Secretary of Defense. He has to slap his hand on the table and say that, I want it and we have an interest in it. I think it is an important and important segment of how to eventually hire several hundred people not only in Croatia but also outside. We have our what is Jerko Vukas was our fellow representative here. He's down in Baghdad. I think we're paying people security down there. Why don't we send over that agency a few people to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47959	Replication response, esteemed Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47960	I thank the esteemed representative Kotromanovic for the replica. We talked about this subject. I am extremely pleased that we agree, which we have the same attitude, the same view of a project that deserves the attention of our state administration, and I believe that for this project the formation of an agency through which Croatian war veterans, professionals, officers, officers who should unfortunately in the future depend on the pensions of several thousand kunas can earn tens of thousands of dollars in the interest of their families, Croatian economy, and I think that this project deserves attention. I believe that two retired generals in the Croatian Parliament can provide their initiative and their efforts with cooperation and the Ministry of War Veterans and the Ministry of Defence, as well as the foreign ministry, as well as all parliamentary representatives, with new jobs for employment, because these people deserve respect. They can be a useful, integral part of this society not only in the economic context, but I would say very important politically, on an international stage connecting different countries, different companies with the interests of the Croatian economy. And here, I think it's our responsibility, and I expect we will certainly get the support of all institutions not only in the government, not only in the Parliament, but also in the Office of Presidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47961	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47962	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is a report in front of us during the observed period from 1 April 2008 to 30 June 2009 of our Armed Forces engaged in the area of peace operation in Afghanistan, where there was certainly a deterioration in the security situation in the entire Afghanistan area during the observed period, and an increase in incidents by the rebel forces, and that was all in preparation and in the conduct of elections in Afghanistan. Otherwise, after all the periods observed these seven years of engagement of Croatian Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions seven months, i.e. The month of August in these seven years is the safest month that has been before. However, this has changed in view of the previous elections. Anyway, over the past seven years, like I said, a few of my colleagues distracted me in their loud argument behind my back, so I stopped. Otherwise, during these seven years, as I say during the observed period, August was certainly the most peaceful month in observation and increased uncertainty occurred in fact because of these preparations for the conduct of elections, population records. And our Armed Forces certainly made a selfless contribution to all these activities. Overall, the majority of civilian victims were caused by this uncertainty and increased attacks by the civilian population suffered in the majority along with the military components that were engaged is the majority of NATO's, i.e. American forces that died in the Afghanistan area. The relatively safest zone was Kabul. It lost its status because of the rebel's goals regarding the highest values and attacks on Parliament itself in Kabul. In all, we can conclude that during the observed period, the level of threats of contingent members ranged from low to very significant. However, regardless of their intensity, these methods of conducting direct or spontaneous threats, and attacks by improvised explosive-minine substances to rocket attacks, hand rocket launchers or suicide bombers, members of the Croatian contingent respected procedures and maintained a high level of security and protection. The members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in this peace operation in Afghanistan showed great professionalism, and the thorough execution of all orders, maintaining a high level of security during the observed period for members of the Croatian contingent, did not have direct attacks even though bases were attacked in which they were stationed, or convoys in which they participated. During the peace operation in Afghanistan, 11, 12 and 13 shifts of the Croatian contingent were deployed, and 14 began with the duration of this observed period. Croatian forces are deployed within multinational structures such as the provincial reconstruction team or the PRT. Some complex places in commands where different timings are allocated. The number of contingent members increased to 295 Croatian members, not exceeding the approved 300 quota adopted by the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian contingent worked in the area of three regional commands in Kabul, the north and the west. The largest number of members of the Croatian contingent was located in the regional command of northern Mazarik Sharif. ... in the regional command in Kabul and west. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Members deployed to work at ISAF headquarters in the regional command shall not be in the line of national command and supervision and shall carry out their tasks independently of the national contingent exclusively in the international and multinational environment. In addition to the commander of the contingent and his group, since a component of the medical team of the US-Adriatic Charter states was shut down in 2009, the Croatian contingent commander of the national contingent with the personal group, the national intelligence support team, and the dedicated organised military police force, the dedicated organised force of the infantry force, the mobile monitoring team for the relationship, the operational mentoring team for the joint, medical team, staff of police circuit teams and staff. When we look at this observed period and the discipline of members of the armed forces on a peacekeeping mission, we can certainly be satisfied with the incidents that occurred and the violation of the discipline that was. The members of the Croatian Contingent carried out their duties and tasks responsibly and knowingly, quality and successfully following all standards and operational procedures of national and international, and respecting the line of command with their personal example and work, and with their military conduct they decently appointed, represented and represented the armed forces. During the reporting period, one member from 12, one from the 13th contingent, was returned from duty because of various deaths or other matters. Four members of the armed forces in the observed period also rejected the order, were returned and disciplined, but we do not know how the disciplinary procedure ended. Finally, we can say that members of the peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan are certainly psychophysically prepared for the performance of the task and in the most difficult conditions, and were decently represented by armed forces, which are spoken of by numerous commendations of the partner armed forces, as all members or commanders from other countries, particularly NATO commanders who praise Croatian armed forces, their members. The small stain on what was done certainly brought and contributed to the refusal of this order which was due to the suspicion of insufficient protection of the vehicle for transport, but we hope that such more dissuasive than the execution of the orders will not be. We hope that, as colleagues have said, this peace operation in Afghanistan cannot voluntarily resolve the security issue, it cannot bring peace unless there is support for the civilian part, unless there is no building of a municipal infrastructure, unless there is a common common people in Afghanistan who wants to establish security and peace, which wants to conduct elections in democratic principles, which wants to rule their state authority and manage their security services and military in the entire area of the state. The contribution of the Croatian Armed Forces is certainly great and certainly represents the Republic of Croatia in the international community, but also in Europe and the world in the brightest example of how a small country out of the war can have an honorable army that is surely following, as we have seen the safety of all delegations, all who come, visit Afghanistan. But certainly also in association with these circuit teams where representatives of different countries operate, to see, to program, to put on paper, and also to find opportunities to finance the construction of institutions as well as the municipal infrastructure to improve life, to better equip all areas, and then contribute ultimately to common peace in those areas, surely Croatian armed forces have a great task and mission. We support this report, and surely we want as few of our members as possible in this operation to suffer, to carry out as many of them as possible and to contribute to peace and stability in Afghanistan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47963	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47964	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, given that every few months we are discussing a report on the participation of our troops in the mission in Afghanistan and that every time we accept the report, that will happen this time, as my colleague Cain said well, correctly, honestly, and there is no reason not to accept it. But let's remind ourselves. So the ISAF mission was approved by the United Nations on 20.12.2001. It includes 85,000 795 soldiers, of which 70,000 NATO soldiers. Soldiers from 40 countries participate, and South Korea, Singapore and Switzerland withdraw their forces, and Canada plans to withdraw its forces in 2011. NATO lost a thousand 513 soldiers in this mission by November 2009, on average since July 2009, at least two soldiers were killed, 56 helicopters and 16 aircraft were lost. At this point, the United States forces number 45,000 780 soldiers, and last year the number was 19,000,950 soldiers. The mission was attended by 295 Croatian soldiers, i.e. last year that number was 211, 2007. 130, and in 2003, it seems to me that we started with 50 soldiers, that it was the first mission. So unlike yesterday's debate, which was a tumultuous, polemic, there was a lot of replicas, a correction of allegations, although this topic is even more sensitive, as it is about people, it is about our soldiers, but the debate is somehow calmer, among other things, because of the fact that the departure of Croatian soldiers to Afghanistan has always been asked for political consensus. And then both sides feel co-responsible for something that can happen, and that's why the debate is so peaceful and, of course, constructive suggestions are made to make it even better. As the process of amending the Constitution is under way in the Republic of Croatia, then this provision on the required majority, i.e. on the necessary political agreement or political consensus, tries to change, and I am quite sure that if it changed to discuss this topic or a similar topic yesterday's debate, which is what the least Croatian and Croatian armies need. To remind us, in 2003 when the decision to go to Afghanistan was made, a two-thirds majority of the MPs' votes were also requested. And on Friday morning, the opposition at the time was against the Croatian army's departure to Afghanistan, and on Friday afternoon it changed its mind. Legend has it that then the leader of the opposition spoke to the American ambassador, I don't know if it's true, but since we don't know why Mr. Sanader's actions are changed, we don't need to know why. But it is quite certain that without the votes of the opposition then, the Croatian army could not go to Afghanistan, because the parliament would not make the necessary decision by making the necessary majority decision. That's why for the state of mind and for some kind of peace of mind, it's much better for all of us here, Mr. Vice President, to keep that two-thirds majority provision still. Among other things, because these things could not, of course, be brought only by the ruling majority but by the consensus of all political factors in the Republic of Croatia. In the case of Afghanistan and all other peacekeeping missions, we had it and therefore, in some way, together for the well-being of both our soldiers and of course the foreign policy role of the Republic of Croatia, we certainly did not go there out of pure peace but had some kind of foreign policy interest, so it is good that these discussions continue to be like this. Because let's remind ourselves of a peace mission the Croatian soldiers didn't leave after all. They didn't go to Iraq even though we were asked to. Or at least it was indirectly sought. Because there was no political consensus. And if we remember the 2003 election campaign, some factors even advocated the departure of the Croatian army to Iraq. Therefore, it is good that this provision, Mr. Vice President, of the two-thirds remains because it was never a problem to raise two-thirds of the MPs to vote for a decision on a peace mission on which there was a general political consensus. And I don't see any reason for that to change. And that's why these reports are good, these reports are honest, open because a constructive and good debate is expected in advance. If this topic and similar topics became a day-to-day political issue, if the opposition and the ruling majority, whoever it is, shifted responsibility to each other, then today this debate would be much more bile, and Croatian soldiers in Afghanistan would become the target of day-to-day political crackdowns of ruling and opposition, whoever is in power and whoever is in opposition. As for the very role of the Republic of Croatia in a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan, so that's about 300 soldiers out of 80,000. This is below 0.5%, and it is quite certain that the Republic of Croatia does not have such a crucial impact on the readiness of the peacekeeping forces in Afghanistan, and it is quite certain that a certain increase has been discussed, so the Croatian forces in Afghanistan, has more symbolic significance than it would really contribute in some way to solving the accumulated problems. Because if the United States has increased almost twice, almost 25, 30 thousand soldiers in a year, it certainly shouldn't do the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has proved to be a solid and stable partner to NATO, as a responsible member of the UN and the Republic of Croatia, I think, and a country with one of the largest number of peacekeeping missions it participates in. Although small, with a relatively small number of members in individual missions. This is every time approved by the Croatian Parliament and there has never been any big debate about it because we are aware that it was not easy for soldiers from Jordan, Argentina and other countries to come to the Republic of Croatia when we were supposed to establish peace here. This is why our tolerance for the number of peacekeeping missions that Croatian soldiers participate in is somewhat greater and in this way we return, I will not say debt, but we are returning ours, fulfilling our moral obligation to the International Community which has allowed the Republic of Croatia to take some way out of '92. the years when the Peace Corps came to better equip its army so that it would be ready to free itself of then occupied territories. And therefore, with the desire to continue participation of Croatian soldiers in peacekeeping missions, I support and commend this report by the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47965	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47966	Here's a few words for Mr. Bauk's exposure. Of course, the Republic of Croatia must have its own interests and that must be the main motive for how our policy must be focused in the future. You mentioned Canada and the release of their forces from the space of Afghanistan. What I think we need to do, which is to realize our forces in a way that we give a different engagement and that by accessing a different engagement upstairs, we need to organise our functional abilities, offer officers who are from these functional areas, and that's a logistics officer, that's an artillery officer, it's an engineering officer, an infantry officer, and they can do a lot of training and training security forces both military and police in Afghanistan. And if we don't talk, and I'm going to say again, NATO appreciates such engagement a lot more than the classic sending of soldiers where the coefficient of one soldier is 0.25%. I think in this context Croatia must look at its own interests in a way that sends excellent instructors and officers who have great experience in the Homeland War. This means that it is much more valued in NATO, and on the other hand, we can improve maximum security compared to now. Since those officers involved in training and training various structures up in Afghanistan would be in those protected and protected bases and areas that we have up there. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47967	Five minutes of debate. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47968	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The ISAF mission has been in place for nine years in Afghanistan one for us still a remote country surrounded by regions and countries rich in energy. The initial purpose of the ISAF mission was therefore to mention terrorism, to prevent terrorism, to fight terrorism. Today in the debates here we hear and clearly what has already existed in that country, which is a drug trafficking drug production. And in the end here, we now hear corruption that threatens the very state of Afghanistan on the inside. And now there are ISAF forces in which Croatia participates with a 295-man contingent, which is 0.5% compared to the total forces that were deployed in Afghanistan. So far, the Croatian Parliament has made clear with a proposal from the Croatian government, the Ministry of Defence sent and sent soldiers, proposed sending soldiers, Croatian soldiers on 15 missions around the world. The last debate here on similar topics was about sending naval officers to Mission Atalanta along the coasts of West Africa or the Horn of Africa or Somalia. If we were to watch the participation of Croatian soldiers given the size of the country, given the population's numbers, then we'd have some old saying that was entrenched said "The Rada of the Croat goes into soldiers". And it's not without the devil today. Given the situation in Croatia, given that Croatia did not approve of sending troops to Iraq, but here Mr. Bauk may have forgotten to say or may not know how many Croatian civilians there are in the service of the US Army in Iraq, how many Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the US military in Iraq. So it's about thousands of people who are gone, you know why? Because they had no business here, because they had to go somewhere to make money for bread. And they went to their own risk in Iraq in various U.S. military services. The talk here was that there was also the foreign political interest of the countries that make up the ISAF mission, and thus the Republic of Croatia. General Ćosic said well that this interest should also be translated into some economic interest and very serious about it. A country which is destroyed by a war in one nightmare has the potential and need for economic recovery, an economic development in which Croatia must find its own interest. And not only is General Cosic and Staff Brigadier or, as Mr Cosic said, two generals, and I know that Branimir Glavas is the only other general with Kreša Cosic in this House, so they do not support such ideas, but we all have good intentions here and in good faith would support these ideas here present General Kresimir Cosic. When these two problems of corruption in Afghanistan and the drugs solved by the ISAF army are highlighted, it always occurs to me that there are other countries in which drug trafficking and corruption exist, but you can see that this country's military or those countries where corruption and drug trafficking are so developed. In any case, this report, which is correctly written, which seriously explains the position of our soldiers and their role in Afghanistan, will support the HDSSB because it is a correct report. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47969	Thank you. The final 5 minutes Club of HDZ Representatives Mr Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. Here's a few sentences at the end. The Republic of Croatia actively participates in the creation of an international global security-political scene. And that's a fact, that's an important finding. The Republic of Croatia actively participates in establishing peace, stability and prosperity in the wider international community. And it should also be emphasized and it is an important fact that we must be aware of. This is one of the most important messages of today's debate, but not just today's debate but also the debate we had over the past period. The Republic of Croatia and Croatia's state policy participate in establishing peace, stability, security prosperity in Afghanistan, but also along the coast of Somalia in Operation Atalanta. It is also an important operation which is an integral part of the European defence and security policy in which Croatian officers and sailors play an important role. Croatia participates in establishing peace, stability and in Haiti. It is a Croatian state policy, responsible, important and it has contributed to making the Republic of Croatia a full member of NATO today and very nearly the European Union. The HDZ Club supports such a state policy. Finally, and because of the fact that the Croatian Democratic Community was the bearer of such a policy, they certainly played an important, active role in all other parliamentary parties, and we must be proud of that fact. We must also be grateful to all our people. Nearly a few thousand of our women, girls, young men, fathers, mothers participated and participated in these demanding peace operations. What's undeniable and the fact is the operation in Afghanistan has its own problems. The withdrawal from this peacekeeping operation does not occur to anyone serious in the international community, given all that has been done by international institutions, notably NATO, the European Union, the United States and many other members of the international community. However, harmonisation of the objectives in this demanding peace operation with the resources available is very important. It has been pointed out that only 20% of the problems not only in this peace operation but many others can be solved by armed forces. 80% of the problems are far more complex and require more comprehensive engagement. In this more comprehensive engagement, the Republic of Croatia makes its full contribution through the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, through police representatives, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, through representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of our diplomats, through our doctors who participated in a joint medical team in Kabul at the airport, but we also have a great opportunity to play a more important role in all this not only in the restoration of Afghanistan. And let us not forget in the end, people who think, people who are active, productive, scientists who publish from the Republic of Croatia also through their published works in prominent international magazines participate actively in the development of peace, stability in these areas, forming a common policy of the International Community to give the desired results in as short a period as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47971	Thank you very much. Final review Mr. Secretary of State Pierre Simonović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47972	Thank you very much. Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. In the first place, I would like to thank you on behalf of all members and members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, deployed in operations specifically in the first place in Operation ISAF in Afghanistan on the congratulations and greetings you have given them. Indeed, they deserve it, and I think that the support they enjoy from this High House is extremely important in the day-to-day performance of their extremely demanding and complex tasks. I think that's what I want to say first. Also, honourable representatives thank you for the words of support for this concrete report. It is the result of our analysis of our work modelled by other advanced democracies and relations of the Ministry of Defence, the Government with the parliaments of its countries, but it is also a major reflection of your efforts during these discussions in the Croatian Parliament at the plenary session, especially on the Defence Committee. In this particular report, we have sought to fully include a series of suggestions, notes, questions, suggestions that you have made to us, so that as far as the structure is concerned, and as to the clarity and relevance of that information and the above chapters in this... the report also during this current debate and the ongoing discussions on the Defence Committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will, of course, structure and write the following reports precisely to provide you with the most powerful elements for the supreme decision that rests on this High House. I was particularly pleased to hear from you the assessment that some trends in Afghanistan are really demanding, complex and serious on our part that you recognized them as honest and accurate. It is indeed about our efforts to make all the necessary arguments in this House of Commons based on which we would have a full picture before we make decisions, rather than on very important decisions concerning the lives of members and members of the armed forces, so that these decisions are truly fully informed. Ladies and gentlemen, a similar debate was held recently during the proposal on the structure of the force for this year. During this reporting period I see the occasion was good to discuss the situation in Afghanistan in general. It is again precious to get guidance and guidance from this High House in terms of running the operation itself. I was free to systematize the debate at several points, Mr. President, very briefly. There's been a budget speech. The Ministry of Defence in the terms of the government's anti-recession policy is taking all necessary measures to rationalise its costs, for proper prioritization so that we are in some way using this current situation to maximise the defence sector. And in that sense, and on that plan, I believe that we are recording significant successes. The priority is the safety of our soldiers in concrete operations so that despite the measures of rationalisation and savings in no way in terms of equipment, training, preparing and conducting a peace operation in the first place, this most demanding in Afghanistan does not suffer but rather, it is invested in a series of experiences that we gain. In addition, as regards combat preparedness, combat preparedness is at the level required in accordance with the law, in accordance with the powers and in response to national security threats that occur at this specific time during a given period. The second element is strategy. There have been multiple speeches on NATO's strategy, the International Community's strategy in Afghanistan. For its part, the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence, within its competence, contributes to this comprehensive strategy. So no military response, military instruments are part of the solution in Afghanistan. Other parts that are developmental, diplomatic, political, police Republic of Croatia according to their capabilities as Professor Ćosic spoke strongly participates and will continue to participate and expand his engagement precisely on the basis of the development of self-sustaining structures in Afghanistan. As for incidents that occur, extraordinary events that include our contingent and some other contingents, all these incidents are the subject of our deep-separations through the troops, through the branches, through the main headquarters, through the Ministry of Defense in the deep and spread so that everything that happens in Afghanistan, everything that we take part in, we also understand as a learned lesson. I think the seriousness of the approach we have been proven through the fact that the high level of security of our soldiers we have happily established. My final note, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the money we're investing in peace operations. I think the money invested in peace operations is well-invested. It's hard to compare the various costs of the state. They're all expenses that make up the state. In this particular case, it is a recognizable benefit to our security plan. The threats we face in Afghanistan as the Republic of Croatia and the entire international community are threats to international terrorism, drugs. It is our responsibility and obligation to participate in international efforts to counter these threats. Our commitment within NATO, as NATO members, in order to have the right to all the benefits that NATO membership gives us, simply for our part, we must contribute to NATO's efforts and to the simple development, investment in a peace operation in the best way possible is also developing the capabilities of the Armed Forces again to the benefit of our national security. So the money invested is well invested, transparently invested in the recognizable political and security benefits of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-12-0.u47973	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide something later. We move to the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan from 1 April 2008 to 30 September 2009. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the previous opinion of the Defence Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan is hereby adopted in the period from 1 April 2008 to 30 September 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This opinion of the board was accepted by the majority of votes. 76 votes in favour, six abstentions and 22 against.
