ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62878	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you to the beginning of another important debate. I must say in the beginning, given that Mr. Kajin intervened around the time when the 2011 budget was made, that I expected that we would be commended for the fact that here are all the jobs that the Government has to do on time and that, of course, the 2011 budget will be passed before the end of November. We in the Government think that this is good, we think that this shows our responsibility and determination to prepare for 2011 which will be of great importance for many years above all because we will end negotiations for EU accession in that year, which will sign the accession treaty in the same year as we will certainly hold a referendum on EU accession in that year. So, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia will decide on a new historical goal for all of us with a dependent goal for the Republic of Croatia. That is why we thought it was good and important for us to come to Parliament with our 2011 projections, not only for the years to come, but for the next two years after that, when we predict if everything goes according to plan and will, that we will become a member of the EU and that there will also be a budget before all of us, which, as 28 EU members, belongs to us, is announced 3.5 billion euros. So, for all of this we are preparing today and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is deeply convinced that with the budget that we are proposing to you, we have been preparing ourselves for this great work that is ahead of us. Ladies and gentlemen of the 2011 budget with a follow-up to the Law on fiscal responsibility that we will bring to the government's session on Friday and then direct you to the debate, and I will say a few words later on, is that yesterday at the government's meeting I said the start of the consolidation of public finances in the post-crisis period, certainly taking care of the fact that we have been living in times of severe economic crisis, that this year we have presented the Programme of Economic Recovery and that this programme is being carried out consistently by ladies and gentlemen. As shown by the government's policy budget next year will be marked with several particularly important ones, I would say a tendency but also a projection of plans, and I would say that exactly what I am going to talk about now, I consider both the personal and the pillars of the 2011 budget. Therefore, above all, by reducing the share of state expenditure in total GDP, as you know about retaining the same level or even slightly less budgetary expenditure compared to this year 2010. I thank the Croatian Parliament and all of you MPs and MPs who voted in favour of the Government's proposal for the government's conclusion that the budgets of next year are to be frozen, so to speak, that they certainly cannot be increased. And that is the answer to all those who characterize this budget or who have already characterized it, so as the election budget for 2011. This is the real budget for the time we live in. And I am sorry that the government's proposal, which supported the majority in this House, did not support all MPs and all MPs on the fact that budget expenditures do not grow next year. However, there will certainly be opportunities to fix that. So at the beginning, I urge you all to support the 2011 budget. This budget is also marked by reducing the tax burden on citizens, i.e. to businesses or all those who are struggling with the crisis today. Why is it so I'm going to say first of all because of the fact that in this year we finally shipped into the history of so-called. crisis tax, i.e. special tax. I will repeat today that he was made on extremely difficult occasions, that we had to make him, that it was one of the most difficult decisions we made, but also that the tax was freed almost 900 thousand pensioners and about 600 thousand employees. So that tax went down in history. In the meantime, we have changed the income tax system, so we have allowed about a million and a half citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have higher incomes, so by introducing this new income tax system. Also, since I said that the economy would be absolutely safe thanks to government decisions burdened next year, I remind you of the fact that we have reduced the largest number of most important, largest, given the burden so-called. parafiscal burdens, i.e. non-taxable givings, and with this system, which will give its full effect in the following year and we enter 2011, but also, this budget will be based on retaining the protection of the most vulnerable and most sensitive groups in Croatian society. As we have decided on this year's budget, so I am talking about the coalition, I am talking about parties or MPs and representatives of the ruling coalition who have given the government support not to cut additional salaries and pensions. We, I'm sure at that moment, have made a good move, because further reduction of wages for all those who get paid and whose government is an employer, but certainly a pension, would bring down the standard of citizens. This would affect consumption and would ultimately affect the Croatian economy. Therefore, this trend remains one of the budget definitions for 2011, so no reduction in wages and pensions. However, when I am here with this fact, when I am at this finding, let me remind the Croatian Assembly of everything that we did last year in order to make the expenditures that we are talking about today, of course we are also talking about the revenue and expenditure side, but everything we have done as a preparation and for the adoption of the 2010 budget, but in particular the 2011 budget shows now full results. By reducing public expenditure and rationalising business in 2009 and 2010, we reduced the total level of state spending by more than 6 billion kuna, in the last year by 2.7 means 2 billion and 700 million kuna, and in this year by 3 billion and 400 million kuna. If we hadn't made many cuts, some of which I can certainly call painful, we wouldn't have these effects today. In other words, the 2010 budget would already be higher by 3.5 billion, and then certainly by that trail and far higher in 2011. I remind you that in this process of rationalisation and reduction of public expenditure, we have reduced salaries, therefore both for state and public officials, 10+5% for civil servants, for judicial officials 10%, but we have also reduced, of course with your support, because we alone couldn't, pay for MPs 10+10%, other pensions according to, not pay, but pensions to MPs, pensions that are therefore determined under special regulations additional 10%, etc., etc. So there was a lot of what we did by introducing at many levels of order. Among other things, I mention that we have also established in its full operation the Office for Public Procurement, United Public Procurement and that in the following year as we announced, because the office has been operating this year, in the following year and in those positions we expect additional savings. Some projections say it could be up to 300 million kuna, but it is certain that the united public procurement is also a strong, important mechanism in the fight against corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, the level of deficits in the Republic of Croatia is on average the new member states of the European Union, or candidate countries, and the deficit level is certainly lower than the EU average 27. Also, the overall level of public debt as a set of sustainability of public finances is on average for the new Member States of the European Union and, in the given circumstances, is the basis for sustainable public finances and a smooth approach to the international capital market, which is of course of paramount importance for all of us. As far as public debt is concerned, I believe we all know that, in EU 27 countries, it will be around 80% of GDP, and in Croatia here at the end of 2010. 40% of GDP. I remind you ladies and gentlemen, and of the statements that we have recently heard from the international monetary fund, as it is likely to be in a lot of words here, a lot of things about whether or not to be called the IMF. The government's position is very clear, no. We can do our own house, we want to do it ourselves, so we have both strength and knowledge and determination. But here the government is very supportive of IMF statements during their last visit to the fact that they praised us for reducing parafiscal burdens, simplifying the tax system, that they pointed out that we reduced the number of agencies and brought them in, that we are in the process of adopting the Fiscal Responsibility Act. When I mention the Fiscal Responsibility Act here for the second time let me say a few words about it. So we suggest that when we send it to the Croatian Parliament on Friday, you discuss it and vote it in parallel with the budget, but certainly until 1 January 2011. That law brings a lot of news. Certainly, the basis of this law is responsibility, financial control, the mechanisms of previous financial controls and, of course, from the highest to the lowest levels of government. The law will apply to both the government and the ministers, the ministries, but the law will also apply to mayors, mayors and mayors. What we have proposed and what you will be able to support or not support in this law when it comes to ministers and when it comes to government, is that we will install a provision that, specifically when I talk about the Government, which is not possible for certain reasons to comply with that law in terms of responsibility, so that which is simplified exceeds the amount allowed to it to put its mandate at its disposal and to the Prime Minister or Prime Minister who will then decide whether there are reasonable reasons for what happened or not. But, of course, we raise that responsibility to the personal responsibility of ministers or ministers when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with this budget, I say this very confidently, gives an example and calls on local authorities to follow the same example, and not as it has been until now very often to ignore the times in which we live and that many unfortunately continue to behave in Croatia today as if what is happening at both national and global level does not concern them personally. Here I am, among other things, thinking of the city of Zagreb and today in the city of Zagreb and the fact that, ladies and gentlemen, here is today by the credit agency "Standard and Pulse" reduced credit rating below the investment Zagreb holding company despite the fact that it is a monopoly in the most developed part of Croatia. So there was no change, there was no restructuring, there was no introduction of order, and the result is as you can see the decline in ratings. The result will be a sure increase in interest and the result will be that the city of Zagreb with its economy can ultimately influence and influence as it affects everything that happens in the country as a whole. So I invite all of you, all who can, all those who will and all who are responsible for Croatia's future to join us in this business. As for GDP growth next year, as I believe, you know, we predicted that it would be 1.5%. However, the government believes that it is also possible to achieve better results if all of our projects and plans to encourage large investment projects that we have just presented are realized. Let me say a few words about this, because the investment projects we have presented and on which we are working and within this project will be some and can now announce some changes in the very system of our work. So we can have better results if at least half of these major projects are actually launched in 2011. I'll mention projects related to the energy sector. Therefore, the construction of capital energy facilities, construction and reconstruction of existing thermal power plants is envisaged. The value of these projects is about 3 billion euros. We are also going to build certain facilities for the transmission of electricity. Competitions for two major energy facilities will be launched, and a 125m-euro hydropower plant tender will be complete by the end of the year. It's about the Ombla plant. Also, ladies and gentlemen, I could mention projects important for the security of oil supply and oil derivatives totaling 255m euros. The carrier is JANAF. JANAF is the bearer of 4 projects. I'm talking about state-owned enterprises, but it's also reconstruction and upgrade projects on the Omisalj, Žitnjak and others. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we're going with projects of course that last for gasification. We're predicting an increase in the length of the pipeline by 560 km. Also, in this investment cycle when we talk about energy, we predict investments of up to 380m euros by the end of 2011. Last week, we made a decision at the government's meeting on guarantees for Croatian waters amounting to more than billions of kuna. And this means the immediate launch of more investment projects in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. Of course, we have also foreseen projects in railway infrastructure, in general in transport of more than 4 billion euros. And I'm not gonna keep counting 'cause these are just some of the biggest ones. So I, both here and today from this place, invite all investors, private investors to report, to join. But they certainly recognize their economic future in some of the projects presented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We'd like the ladies and gentlemen to be aware of the size of the fiscal challenge. I think of different economic experts as well. I think both members and members of the opposition parliamentary political parties. I would like to say a few more words about the budget as information that is good to know as some framework in which we are also bringing a budget for 2011. So, we continue in this budget through different items, through different positions, through different projects, repairing the damage from aggression to Croatia, repairing war damage. This amount is also greater than 8 billion kuna in this budget. And in this budget that we have repeated frozen, whose expenditures we have frozen compared to the expenditures of 2010. However, in such frozen expenditures we included items related to the accession process of 2 billion kuna, but also some necessary items, I repeat, included in the frozen budget, in frozen expenditures and some without which we absolutely cannot, some are new, and some are simply increasing. So here we have included in this framework more than a billion, a billion exactly and 97 million kuna for financial expenditures, meaning interest, 260 million for military equipment, 163 million for pensions, and here I want to say, i.e. to deny, correct, how you want to quotes that are mentioned in the media, but unfortunately also on the political scene about that we are amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, recently, where we are, of course, trying to do something to keep the system from collapsed, and in order to certainly have enough funds to pay off pensions. So the story started that there was a stampede for retirement, i.e. early retirement, after the government announced amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act. The results deny this last one, so this year it's about 14 thousand people, last year it was just over 12,000, and so this data says there was some increased retirement, but it's certainly not a stampede, and at least it's caused by amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act. We're also going to increase the funds, which means we're going to include in this frozen expenditure of 70 million kuna for the development of the water economy, for the birth benefits of 54 million kuna. I believe that you will absolutely all support this, because obviously this data says that more children are born in Croatia, and that's the good news. Also scholarships for graduate and undergraduate study 25 million kuna, for the Office of President 5 million kuna more, for the census of 146 million kuna, and certainly we had to allocate and find funds for parliamentary elections and for a referendum to join the European Union. In total, it is almost 2 billion kuna, so new, or increased expenditures that are more than justifiable, which we must include in the budget whose expenditures are frozen, because this is our political decision, plus those 2 billion that I mentioned earlier, means about our projects for entry into the European Union. I therefore think that it is clear to everyone that, in order for us to have to put all of this into the framework that is set, and which is not only for 2011 but also for 2012 and 2013, we have to do further rationalizations, act more responsibly and really deny everything about the users of the state budget, as regards the government, government institutions, so anything without which we absolutely can. Finally, given that there have been different speculations, which I think is particularly bad in the media, but also from some political parties, about pensions and wages. Although some have announced that this 2011 budget will lead to the fact that it will not be for pensions and that it will not be for wages, I am most determined to deny it and say it is irresponsible behavior. It will be for pensions and will be paid and will be for child support and will be for maternity benefits and will be for the socially most vulnerable groups and will be of course for the unemployed, but certainly the government is aware that the job of all jobs, that the task of all tasks is to run the economy additionally, do everything to create new jobs, that people are employed and that they can certainly live from their work. That is why it is important to start these investments, and when it comes to optimism, let me say in the end that there are positive indications and that I do not understand why these positive data, and positive indications are so modest or not mentioned in the Croatian public. So industrial production is growing by modest, but it certainly is growing 3.1%, exports are growing more than 13% in the European Union countries 14.8%, in the United States 28%, so exports are growing. One of the most affected industries in Croatia, it is the wood industry, which has fallen into the crisis amongst the first, slowly but certainly pulled out. That's what they're talking about. So when we talk about the wood industry, exports increased by 10%, furniture exports, because it's the most debated when it comes to the wood-processing industry, it increased by 12%. And I'm talking to the owners all over Croatia every day, and they're testifying that there's movement, there's positive shifts, some of them are really working and they're doing great, and it's our job to track down those first signs, that we're on the right track to continue to work committedly and further. I will certainly conclude what interests all of us in this House, because we are politicians and we are talking at that level which, as far as Parliament is concerned, means support or does not support certain projects, support or support amendments to the Labour, Support or not support amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, which is what ladies and gentlemen warn us about from the world institutions. This is what the IMF warns us about, so it seems absolutely amazing to me that today there are political scenes of those who would like to call on the IMF, but what the government says should be done, and on the trail and what the IMF is talking about and what we ourselves should do, they don't want to support, and they don't want to support it in this House of Commons either. I think it is time indeed for the change of behaviour, and for a different attitude towards many things, especially towards work, and especially according to the own responsibility of each of us, so I suggest that you ladies and gentlemen accept the government budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62879	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62880	Thank you. It is difficult in this short time to correct all incorrect allegations. You can laugh, but in this pile of material there is not a single June, nor a swear for the most backward region in Croatia, it is Slavonia. And with this budget, we are aware that we are not even on track to find a way, Madam Prime Minister, and I urge you to take Slavonia seriously. I personally suggested 20 amendments, so here's a chance for Slavonia to find a way out of the crisis. Instead of taking money from Slavonia by tax laws, take it back through the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62881	Correction, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62882	Here, Mr Vinkovic, the funds for the referendum should not be specifically sought for the EU referendum to be associated with the elections. And here you can find 70, 80 million kunas for your ergel, and for Slavonia. However, I did not answer to correct this false allegation, but to correct the wrong assumption that I should, quote: "dignify this pace of adoption of the budget". I say someone here is panicking about the quorum, Madam President. True, today you have 83, how many will be tomorrow I don't know. On the side now whether the budget is being discussed on 16.11. or 1612. The truth is, it's never happened to discuss the budget day after day. It's a non-democratic practice, I won't insult anyone, perhaps a characteristic of Afghanistan or Sudan. We see that we are not far from them either, but no local self-government unit in Croatia in this way, let alone a serious country to act. We have, on the other hand, a review of budget expenditure
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62883	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62884	But we don't have the subject of extra budget expenditure. And there he lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62885	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62886	Someone's been shutting me down all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62887	Thank you. I didn't understand what the correction was or what it was, and you're still out of time. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62888	Let me just finish my sentence till the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62889	Thank you. Well, you will.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62890	... budget funds where there... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62891	Please, at the very beginning, we abuse the Institute of Correction of the Inaccuracy and we speak as much as anyone is willing, not as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure here. You've come a long way and time and everything and I pray we move on. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62892	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, the Committee considered the proposal of the State budget as an interested working body. In its first debate, the majority of the board members agreed with the assessment that it is necessary to protect the procedural side of the budget examination, i.e. to allow a broad debate on the proposed budget by leaving sufficient time to carry out a quality analysis of the proposed budget items by interest groups and by parties. They concluded that discussing the budget only hours after his reference to the Croatian Parliament did not contribute to the development of parliamentary democracy. In the follow-up to the session, the Committee discussed in more detail those parts of the proposal for a state budget relating to the funding of programmes and activities aimed at achieving the rights of national minorities and the protection and promotion of human rights in accordance with its section of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the committee made available the draft budget for the Office of the General Prosecutor for 2011 to 2013 submitted to the Board by the Advocate General, having regard to the conclusions reached by the same committee for 2009. In the debate, however, we find that the proposed budget has increased by 21% compared to the 2010 budget, but it does not show how much it meets the demands of the Ombudsman, given that EU funds from the IPA programme have not been specifically allocated. The members of the board agreed with the Ombudsman's conclusion that the Croatian Assembly must be involved earlier in the draft budget in order to ensure the implementation of the legal obligations given to individual institutions in particular in the field of human rights, and in which the Ministry of Finance cannot have sufficient sensitivity. The Committee also proposed to the Croatian Parliament during the debate on the 2009 report on the work of state attorneys that the Croatian Parliament should reach a conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with providing, in its 2011 budget, the necessary resources for the staff and material strengthening of the Croatian State Attorney's Office and the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime to comply with their obligations under the amendments to the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the total resources of the State Attorney's Office, several figures have been mentioned in the draft State budget, it therefore does not show whether and how much the total resources for the work of the State's attorneys are increasing. The exception is the article of the Ministry of Justice relating to the upgrade of the management of the management system in cases in courts and the monitoring system of criminal cases in state attorneys and loan funds to which the amount of around 6 million kuna is intended, slightly less. In terms of funds intended to protect and promote the rights of national minorities, it was concluded that they remained at the same level this year's budget after its rebalance when they were partially reduced around 1%, slightly higher. However, it is particularly stressed that additional efforts need to be made to ensure the funds needed to return refugees, in part through the upcoming Donor Conference, to ensure the assumptions for the closure of the refugee return chapter and to allow for natural entry into the EU as soon as possible. As in previous years, it was once again warned of the obligation of all state authorities to comply with the recommendations of the Committee on... The UN is obliged to display in particular the funds intended for the exercise of the right of the child, which has not yet been done. As the items of certain ministries in which the rights of children are being protected are reduced, children are particularly urged by the heads of the ministries and the government to avoid harming children's rights before the consequences of non-investment in the protection and promotion of children's rights are largely reflected in the rise in violence and behavioural disturbances in the younger population, which we witness on a daily basis. After the debate was held, the Committee decided by a majority vote, 7 votes for and 3 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this 2011 state budget with a 2013 projection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62893	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62894	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At its 65th session held on 16 November 2010, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for the State Budget for 2011 with the projections of the national budget for 2012 and 2013 as a home working body. The introduction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that in 2011, the recovery of the Croatian economy and the real growth of the gross social budget of d1.5%, with expected inflation of 2.1% and projections of GDP growth for 2013 were estimated to be around 2.5%. The total revenues of the 2011 state budget were planned at 101.4 billion kuna, representing an annual decrease of 0.8% and in 2012 total revenues were projected at €114.1 billion, representing a growth of 6.2% at the annual level. While in 2013 it was projected to be €119.1 billion, which is an increase of 4.3% compared to 2012. The total expenditure of the State budget for 2011 is planned at €122.3 billion, for 2012. 124.8 billion kuna and 2013. 125.5 billion kuna. The largest item in the operating expenditure is compensation to citizens and households on the basis of insurance and other compensation of HRK 64.6 billion in 2011, kuna 64.4 billion in 2012 and kuna 64.9 billion in 2013. And most of these expenditures are pensions planned in 2011 amounting to €35.1 billion, in 2012. 65.3 billion kuna and 2013 36 billion kuna. The 2011 budget sets out items related to Croatia's accession situation in the European Union amounting to 1.9 billion kuna, and for that amount the budget has not increased but to this amount of reduced expenditure on the regular operation of the state. In addition, additional savings of 2 billion kuna were made in the budget to finance an increase in each category of expenditure compared to 2010. Following total planned revenues of 107.4 billion, and total planned expenditure of €122.3 billion, the government budget deficit in 2011 amounted to 14.9 billion or 4.3% of gross domestic product. Following the introduction of a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee discussed the following opinions, observations and proposals. The opinion has been expressed that the deadline of one day is too short in which MPs should examine the 2011 State Budget proposal with projections for 2012 and 2013. And that this is too short to prepare a quality debate, both for the home working bodies and for the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. According to the opinion of individual members of the Committee, the 2011 budget offers nothing new but seeks to maintain the status quo but it is important to warn of the need for a faster economic recovery that is possible only with structural reforms. The opinion, which also supports the proposed budget for the reason that budget spending actually decreases in 2011 compared to 2010, because in 2011, we have a circulation of 2 billion new budget expenditures covered by savings from budget users in the same amount. The proposed budget will not introduce new tax burdens and will not further reduce salaries and pensions, suggesting the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken care to halt further decline of citizens' standards in the following year. The proposed GDP growth of 1.5% is realistically planned, and the implementation of measures from the economic recovery programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia will create a precondition for GDP growth to be greater than planned in 2011. This budget is considered to be the most technically regulated, namely, the first budget established for 1+2 years, with established budgetary spending limits by programmes and relevant bodies. This budget is based on economic and fiscal policy guidelines for the same period so that it is a well-coordinated process. It was also pointed out that this Budget proposal was developed under unfavourable macroeconomic conditions, that it was developed in terms of economic crisis and economic downturn, that in terms of the increase in the number of unemployed, that it was created in conditions of unfavourable economic structure, in conditions where the total number of employees is unfavourable in relation to the total number of pensioners, that it was created under conditions where the unfavourable employment ratio to the total number of working age population, and 41% of the total working capacity is retired. That it had been made and that previously it had been a more rapid growth in the expenditure of the state budget than the growth of the gross-domestic product. The illustrations work, 2000 to 2010 GDP has increased from 176.7 billion to 333 billion kuna, which is 88% growth, and in the same period in 2000 to 2010, the expenditures of the state budget rose from 50.7 billion to 120 billion kuna and thus increased by approximately 2.5 times. And this is the first budget that has not followed the current methodology and has taken into account the macroeconomic environment and conditions of the economic crisis and recession that has affected the Republic of Croatia. The position was supported not to reduce the expenditure of the state budget on salaries, pensions, social contributions since such an approach can only lead to a reduction in consumption and thus demand, and will not have a positive impact on the increase in production and employment growth. Maintaining expenditure at 2010 level is the first true step in the consolidation of public finances, and the projections of the State budget for 2012 and 2013 and the proposal of the Fiscal Responsibility Act point us to a serious start of the process of consolidation of public finances. The process will be complete and will lead to positive economic impacts only if it continues to implement economic recovery measures but the necessity to activate all economic and economic potentials of the Republic of Croatia is also highlighted. At the same time, it is necessary to carry out further rationalisation in all state companies. It has been pointed out that it is also necessary to optimise state property, but to continue with the tax discharge of the economy. The need to strengthen state-owned banks and occupy a larger market share of the Croatian Bank and the Croatian Post Bank is also highlighted. It has been pointed out that it has never been more important and that it needs to be raised to the highest possible level of financial discipline in the Republic of Croatia. It is also pointed out that it is necessary to remove all administrative barriers to investment. It is particularly noted that it is high time for the process of financial consolidation that it is high time for economic policy to swim with both the left and right hands synchronised and coordinated both with the hand of fiscal policy and the hand of monetary policy. Because only by coordinating and synchronising monetary and fiscal policy can the desired economic results be achieved. It's not a good situation, nor is it possible that one hand is responsible for everything, but for nothing, and another is a mockery for all, and for nothing. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority of votes, 7 votes for and 6 against the Croatian Parliament to propose the adoption of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 and projection for 2012 and 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62895	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62896	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President, Vice-President, Minister. The Health and Social Care Committee discussed the state budget as an interested working body. The opening statement was given by the deputy prime minister, Dr. Darko Milinovic, as well as representatives of the finance ministry. In the debate followed by most board members, the opinion was that the Ministry of Health and Social Care made a great effort to streamline and save even though the revenues of the Ministry and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute were reduced to health insurance reform, it was achieved that the functioning of the system, all its components, would be ensured without the removal of the rights for users. It is also commendable that the accelerated dynamic of the renewal of old equipment is continued, and that the means to prevent chronic, non-infectious diseases and the prevention of malignant diseases will not be reduced despite the budget that has not been increased. Thanks to reforms, the health system of the Republic of Croatia is one of the few in the world that has not felt the economic crisis, on the contrary, more health services have been done for less money, drug consumption has been increased and a significant recovery of medical infrastructure has been made. The fact that 4 million boxes of drugs are spent more for 500 million kuna means good negotiations and good rationalization. The budget ensures improvement in quality control of services, also allows further progress in transplant medicine, the introduction of telemedicine, and further progress in the development of emergency medical assistance. The new monitoring and authorisation system reduced the rate of sick leave by 25%, reaching a daily of 14,000 workers more present at work. Further streamlining and informing the number of HZZO employees decreased by 4%. In conclusion, all processes are conducted and produced results, such as a reduced waiting list by 30%, a significant reduction in HZZO debt, a reduction in the total debt of hospitals, etc. The social care system also lacks a reduction in funds, while reforming the social care system will lead to rationalisation, decentralisation and deinstitutionalisation of social care. After the discussion, members of the board voted with one vote against, proposed the adoption of the State budget for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62897	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62898	Mr. President, Madam President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia discussed the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia as an interested working body at its 32nd session. The proposer’s representative presented the draft budget in the context of the overall financial situation and introduced them to basic macroeconomic financial developments and parameters. in the context of which the budget has been adopted as well as the programme approach in the production of a budget based on the strategic planning of individual authorities of the state administration. As regards macroeconomic projections in the coming period, Croatia's economies and GDP growth are expected from 1.5 in 2011 and 2% in 2012. In the following year, real growth of all GDP components is expected except for state spending. Total revenue of the state budget in 2011 2013 was projected in line with current developments and macroeconomic projections. In 2011, the state budget's revenue is expected to drop by 0.8% compared to 2010, and are planned at € 107.4 billion. In 2012, their growth is projected at 6.2 and 4.3% in 2013. The total expenditure of the state budget in 2011 is estimated at €122.3 billion in accordance with the Council's conclusion on the establishment of the total expenditure of the state budget. In the debate, members of the board discussed certain items of the budget relating to Croatian projects outside the Republic of Croatia. It is a pleasure to have provided the necessary resources for different needs for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, including projects in the fields of culture, health care, return of refugees and displaced persons, science, education, etc. Among these projects should be an incentive for science, education, culture and health, scholarship of students and students of members of Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia, the HRT programme for Croatians in the world, which includes the voice of Croatia and pictures of Croatia, the programme of assistance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the return of Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina, then projects carried out by the Croatian queen of emigrants, etc. The projects mentioned are assessed by the interests of the Republic of Croatia living outside the Republic of Croatia and, as such, they are full of support and support for future funding insurance in accordance with the financial opportunities and overall economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. It stressed that the financial and economic stabilisation of the Republic of Croatia is the same interest of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Although the funds on some items are slightly reduced total funds for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia have even increased by as much as 7.3 million kuna compared to the 2010 budget plan. The debate highlights the importance of the adoption by the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the announced Strategy of the Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the law mentioned which, in accordance with the needs and new circumstances, is the general globalisation and entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, planning, implementing and promoting the interrelationship of the Republic of Croatia and individual groups of Croatian people living in the world, which certainly includes the Croatian diaspora, the Croatian national minority in the European countries and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a sovereign nation, which includes an assessment of the situation, planning and implementation of all activities and areas of cultural, educational, scientific, health and innovation. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the State budget for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62899	Thank you. No one ever answered on behalf of the board again. The Committee on Economy, Mr Dragan Kovacevic, chairman of the board. I didn't see the application.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62900	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister. At its 44th session, the Committee on Economy discussed the 2011 National Budget Proposal with a proposal for projections for 2012 and 2013. The Committee discussed this proposal with its related habits as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative informed members of the Committee on the basic macroeconomic frameworks and... , revenue and expenditure and the assessment of the total lack of state budget for 2011. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Speaking of macroeconomic projections, the proposaler's representative informed the committee that in the last two months of 2010, as well as in 2011, in '12. and '13. The year expects recovery and the acceleration of the annual economic growth rate. The total revenues of the national budget for 2011 are planned at € 107.4 billion, total expenditure of €122.3 billion, and the total deficit planned is €14.9 billion or 4.3% of gross domestic product, while in 2012 and 2013, the deficit should be 2.9 and 1.7% of gross domestic product, respectively. As a result of the end of the negotiations with the European Union in the 2011 budget, items related to the 1.9 billion kuna accession process are foreseen, 177 million kuna are planned for the implementation of the European Union and parliamentary elections referendum and 146.1 million kuna for the census. The total amount planned for the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship for 2011 is at the level of the 2010 budget, but it is pleased with the change in structure. The economic activity programme promotion rate increased in 2011 compared to 2010, by 81.2% and amounts to 300 million kuna. The planned funds for industrial development and restructuring records the planned growth of 63.1%, while strengthening the competitiveness of the small and medium-sized economies is planned to grow by 96.7%. New budget items and insurance for women entrepreneurship and craft education programmes have also been introduced. Following the opening presentation, the issue of planning expenditure of the Croatian Waters was raised in 2011, given the government's guarantee issued of 1.1 billion kuna, which was answered by the applicant's representative that part of the guarantees was incorporated in the planned 2011 item in accordance with the credit debt. It also asked the question of providing funding for the implementation of the trade union referendum, which was answered by the applicant's representative that these funds were planned in 2010 with the final budget rebalancing. After the debate was held, the Committee, with 6 votes for and 3 votes against, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 with projections for 2012 and 2013, with corresponding decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62901	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62902	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister with his associates, fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament held today's 47th session on the 2010 National Budget Proposal and the 2012 and 2013 projections. I am not going to say what is in the name of the promoter, but I am going to just talk about what is important in the debate itself. The debate has repeatedly highlighted that the government is responsible and socially sensitive because it has not reduced or made savings on pensions, maternity benefits, child benefits, social benefits, public and public services salaries. In the debate, board members agree that this budget is simultaneously developed and socially fair. The conditions for a stimulating entrepreneurship environment have been created, and the full effect of some of the measures cannot be seen within a short period of time, but it is necessary to implement such measures in order to deliver positive results in the long term. Furthermore, the debate estimated that it is not good to call for assistance from the International Monetary Fund, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reduced and successfully oversees public spending. Most board members believe that the creation of a negative social climate and dissatisfaction among citizens contributes further to the frequent call for IMF assistance, both political rivals and some trade union leaders. An opinion has been given that more cooperation between the social partners should be given to the adoption of a strategic document such as the state budget. Furthermore, reforms of public and state administrations, as well as other sectors, have been shown to contribute to greater efficiency and savings of budgetary resources. It was assessed positively by the Croatian Parliament's acceptance of the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the freezing of budgetary expenditure over the next two years, and this is a significant contribution to reducing state spending and continuing savings on the trail of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Republic of Croatia. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to bring this state budget with projections for 2012 and 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62903	Thank you. Did I miss someone else? I didn't. I'm opening a debate. And the first on behalf of the SDP club is Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62904	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to correct the wrong allegations or de-commit with statements by members of other parties, written in the paper. I'll just say that this is the budget we expected and that we are disappointed and that it is bad for Croatia and that it is harmful. It is amazing that the Prime Minister mentions an agreement here, one budget of local self-government, the budget of the City of Zagreb. In a country where local and regional self-government is reduced to barely 10% of total public spending and with such a percentage represents a European bottom, in a country where it is precisely the direction to go – strengthening local self-government, more autonomy, more resources and more obligations for local self-government. Here in the Parliament, I'll say it's for business, and not a lot of mayors of the former, present, perhaps future and best know what I'm talking about. Madam Prime Minister of the city you mentioned is an example of a large budget of local and regional self-government. It is the city of Zagreb, a very large budget. Do you know, Madam Prime Minister, how much that budget has been cut in the last year and a half? As an example of awareness of what is happening in the country and an example of fiscal responsibility and movement within the framework of what is there and covering what you can cover. Are you aware that the budget of the City of Zagreb from 8 billion kuna in 2009 has been reduced to 6.6 billion kuna, primarily under the pressure and action of the City of Zagreb Assembly. Are you aware of this fact that it's a 17% reduction? Are you aware that it is 17%, that 17% at the state budget level would be 21 billion kuna. Are you aware that we haven't asked so much of you? Are you aware that you haven't reduced the kuna or the lime? Are you aware that such comparisons make no sense? Are you aware that local and regional self-government can only strengthen so that they have more money, more autonomy and more responsibility. Are you aware that this doesn't make sense? Are you aware that a year ago in this SDP Council, the SDP Club proposed the adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility Act here from this pay phone. Why didn't you suggest it then? Are you aware that that was when we talked about it and that you mocked and that's your democratic right? Are you aware that you have done damage to the Croatian budget? Are you aware that in the last 10 years, what the chairman of the committee has been very specific about? Goran Maric, a Croatian social product, has increased by 88% and Croatian budget expenditures, i.e. Croatian budgets, as he said I quote two and a half times. So 150 percent. Are you aware of the depth of this conflict and of the harmfulness of such a policy? Are you aware that Croatia with a successful tourist season as one of the few countries where the tourist season was successful, and tourism in Croatia is one of the bases of the economy, that in 2010 before the Croatian economic downturn of 2% and we will be satisfied if it is only 2%. Are you aware that this is due to someone's economic policy or to the absence of some economic policy. And are you aware that Croatia is in a club of few European states that have such a situation. Spain forecasted a 0.5% drop. Greece as an example of a country that lives far beyond its capabilities in this year will have a decline of less than 5%, but Greece is implementing reforms that are painful, which are difficult, which are turbulent. We see that the Government, otherwise the Government of the Left, which implements and cleans the mess left by the right, is also being supported in local elections and there is still Croatia as the next member of the European Union, as a country that will not have economic growth this year. Are you aware of where this leads us? Are you aware that the total has been accumulated during your term of 40 billion kuna of the budget deficit? Where did that money go? More specifically, where did that money go? Are you aware he can't do this anymore? And that Croatia, which has a potential of one branch of the economy, tourism is an important branch of the economy making progress, is held in competition due to a number of circumstances and the situation of Croatia and good preparation, while at the same time Croatia has an economic downturn. Are you aware that someone is responsible for this? Are you aware that by throwing this thing, you can throw it ten times, you won't change anything. To stand in place, that we are one of the European countries that does not move and that with such a policy, Croatia's entry into the European Union will not change anything. Are you aware of the damage you are doing to Croatia? Thank you very much. By the end of time for the SDP club, counterpart Branko Grcic will continue. Branko.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62905	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister. So just a few more words about this budget how much time I have left. So each budget, and this year in particular, its efficiency is measured with effect on two things. The first is economic growth in this case I'm talking about recovery, the second is fiscal consolidation. These are two key macroeconomic objectives that burden Croatia at the moment. The key question is whether this is the way the budget is set to contribute to the realisation of these two objectives. And my role in these five minutes is to answer those two questions. Very short and clear. Keeping budget spending that we don't even mind at this point, but we're not satisfied with other things, which is primarily the structure of and consumption is something that certainly won't contribute in this year's economic growth, because growing consumption would then contribute to economic growth. To change the structure of the budget, it would also contribute to economic growth, if this structure were to go from non-productive, ongoing consumption, according to capital investments, according to the proactive measures that many of these European countries are benefiting from today. Unfortunately, we do not have enough, neither strong, nor strong, exactly the opposite when you look at three last Croatian budgets then you will see very well how the structure changes in the wrong direction. This direction is to strengthen current consumption at the expense of capital investment and support, i.e. transfer to the business sector. Unfortunately, we are all convinced that the reason for this is a high deficit and a rapidly growing public debt. And let's not be too prone to say wash the situation. No, I don't. Unfortunately, the new 15 billion euros, i.e. the kuna pardon, and next year the deficit will bring public debt, along with guarantees, guarantees that will most of it be protested, we know what it says in the papers, the shipbuilding that will cost us, and we have to tell people clearly here. More than 10 billion kuna are being worked, which will need to be covered by that budget in the coming years. Thus, fiscal stability with such a situation has been significantly disrupted. Fiscal stability is crucial for the rating of this country, the rating of this country determines the price of capital we borrow abroad, and the price of capital is not low. Unfortunately, the effect of this is that in one year alone, the cost of the interest paid from the state budget has increased billions and 100 million kunas. So imagine that we can separate that money and return it to the economy. What effect would that be? This is how it works for some foreign creditors, investors, and unfortunately, we have nothing. Therefore, the key message would welcome the kind of budget that would achieve current consumption savings and increase the capital side of the budget in the same amount, and all the proactive measures that are even recorded in the economic recovery programme, but unfortunately you have to admit that so far have not been implemented at both the pace and the level that would have significant effects on economic growth. Because please, fiscal consolidation of the Croatian budget is really only possible in the medium term. For the next three years, but that's why he needs to do something. I think the key to the revenue side of the budget and only the measures that will boost economic growth, which will awaken the trust of our entrepreneurs that those investments, those projects they keep in the skafet today, in the drawer, to get out, to go to banks and start realising their projects, but that's why the state has to send a clear signal, it has to go from itself, it has to offer trust to all these investors and, of course, open the way for one such process. And I'm afraid this budget isn't on the trail yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62906	Thank you. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First, Madam Representative, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62907	Well, thank you very much. So here I am correcting the incorrect allegations regarding Mr Milanovic's exposure, when he keeps saying if you are aware. We are aware, but are you aware, if you are not already unconscious of this, are you aware of Mr. Milanovic's view of the city of Zagreb, that you have transferred 800 million kuna in the following year, that you have made a compromise on the rebalancing, you have transferred this debt, you have brought Zagreb to bankruptcy, at the time of the local elections when you presented Mr. Bandic as mayor and said that this is your best choice. Are you aware that you've led Holding to the brink of collapse, that regardless of the overall situation, that your holding presidents have a genius salary of 36,000 kuna, grossly you say 10% less, Mr. Shrem, that the debt of Holding is 54 million, so that you're not ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62908	I don't know what you want from me. Mr Milanovic argued that the city is being rationalised and that it has reduced the budget, Mrs Đurdjica Sumrak claims it is not rationalisation, but something else. So she makes it right, and whoever's right, I don't know, I won't judge. ... We still have Mr. Josip Salapic's correction. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62909	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct Mr Milanovic's incorrect quote, which said Croatia's entry into the European Union will not change anything for our country. So, Mr Milanovic, are you unconscious that the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union is our national interest, are you unconscious when you say so, and do you not know that your SDP government took one first step when you were in power to proceed with this process? Are you unconscious that as head of the biggest opposition party, the young people we've ever trained in this country, you're not taking such negative attitudes anywhere? Are you aware that you are helping us never to come to power with such attitudes in this country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62910	I have to say that this is a controversy, and it's not a correction of an incorrect allegation, but ladies and gentlemen, it happens all the time in this assembly, and I don't share either left or right, they all serve at a given time by correcting incorrect allegations without correcting it, but by polymizing it. That's it. Mr. Kreso Filipovic also has a correction. No, I don't. And Mr. Turk has a correction. Then I thought of your hand as his hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62911	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting the wrong quote... Mr. President Milanovic called this government unprofessional to lead this country. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, time has shown us that this government is extremely professional in the given circumstances, and on the other hand, I think it is irresponsible to compare the budgets of the local and regional units and the budget of the state government. I don't know how many budgets you've participated in knowing the pure truth that the minimum half of the state budget is a matter of wages, pensions and other items that don't exist in any of the municipality's budget items, or cities, or counties as such, and it is, in fact,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62912	I'm asking all my colleagues and colleagues that when they pick up the correction table and get word that I'm starting to correct my exposure, no matter what I say, because then I'm going to have some reason why we're allowing such corrections to be incorrect, right? All right, let's move on. Mr. Dragan Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62913	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would, in effect, correct Mr. Greek, who said that the government is deliberately increasing budget spending to the heart of capital investments. It's just not true. This is about replacing thesis. The Croatian government is carrying out its obligations in accordance with the laws, so that they define the current consumption, so if it comes to pensions, salaries, maternity benefits, social transfers, etc. However, Mr. Greek, I have listened persistently and tensely to whether you will have the courage to finally tell the SDP which of this current consumption should be abolished or reduced, not spoken at the principle level. Say, you need to cut pensions, you need wages, you need maternity benefits. Don't run away from it, take some responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62914	Correction, Mrs. Representative Bozica Solic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62915	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, Agent Milanovic cannot be fixed, but I will try to correct him. When he spoke this government is not aware, she is not aware of the list. I'll make it right if that's not exactly what he says. It is true that this government is very conscious, bringing this budget for 2011, because in this budget proposal, Mr Milanovic listen, they don't touch pensions, which you would like, they don't touch wages, what you would like, they don't touch social giving, they would want you to do the same. But in the end, I'll tell you, you mentioned the City of Zagreb to me. For 11 years you have ruled in the City of Zagreb, you have destroyed this city with your policies together with your candidate, Mr Bandic. That was your candidate, from your ranks. She was just a colleague of the twilight when she said you were reprogramming your debts and losses. In 2009, you had, I'll repeat, 800 million losses you spent on a pre-election campaign for local elections. And you transferred it, that loss in 2011 and that's how you reprogramed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62916	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62917	... [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62918	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62919	You're shutting me down because you won't listen to the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62920	Please don't extend the hearing. The first part was the correction, the second part was the polemics. But that's the way it is. Therefore, it is a warning in vain. And there's no repair of incorrect allegations, there's a correction if they're corrections. It's Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62921	Thank you, Mr. President. I will try to correct two incorrect allegations from my fellow Greeks. First, a colleague of Greece said that Croatia has a very high deficit planned, and I remind you that only 4.3% of GDP is planned, that this is below the average of 25 EU countries and that you know, and you probably know that there are countries with a deficit of 6, 8, 10 and 12% in the EU. I do not agree with you that it is a high deficit, and I remind you that it is partly funded by orderly pension payments, orderly payouts, orderly implementation of social programmes, and at this point is fully justified. Secondly, you said the government didn't make any savings in current consumption. And I can't agree with that either, because we know that over the past year, it's been achieved in the resolution ministries, in public enterprises, in state institutions, more than 2 billion kunas are currently saving on current consumption. So that's a completely 2 inaccuracies of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62922	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62923	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So let us, on behalf of the Government, just a few facts simply because we want in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that this debate is really going in the right direction and that the 2011 budget is really being brought into a tolerated atmosphere, taking care of the moment we live in, but certainly taking care of all the facts. So when I mentioned Zagreb Holding, so I only mentioned the fact that it was reduced and it was a drastic credit rating of Zagreb Holding in Zagreb in which the SDP has been in power for many years. The fact itself shows, therefore, the lack of both fiscal discipline and fiscal responsibility. And that's something that's a fact. Therefore, the government proposes a fiscal responsibility law. I don't think it's good to talk about the Fiscal Responsibility Act before you all see it, like there have been a number of discussions in the public on budget and comment yesterday about that, both the day before and the last days, that the budget is bad, and that those who talked about it haven't even seen it. So it's always good to look at so based on the facts to discuss. Also remember the discussion of rationalisation in Zagreb hospitals where we proposed a rationalisation that would certainly lead to approximately 300 million savings, and right then, I am talking about how the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the ruling coalition called for debate. And there was resistance in the sense that it was some type of writing, quote, money that wouldn't mean anything in total. Until we all change that way, of course, that there will be no progress. The fiscal responsibility law you will see, I am sure that this law will surely support all parliamentary parties in the Croatian Parliament because it will prevent, for example, future spending in the city of Rijeka as recently pointed out by Buterin 143 or 149 million kunas of budget money is not intended. Unintentionally equally, contrary to regulations equally illegal. So, once we pass the Fiscal Responsibility Act, it won't be possible. Or as it happened in the city of Zlatar, for example. where he was mayor of the HNS, who literally drove the city to a beggar stick, to its knees, and the question is when and with what efforts the city will recover. Therefore, after the adoption of this Law, it will not be possible for any mayor, not a single government in the city, municipality and county, regardless of which political options the people who will lead the city, the municipality or the county or the government or the ministry came from. As for the debate between Mr. Greeks and the finding that the economic recovery programme is not being implemented or not being implemented at the pace that Mr. Greek and my colleagues would like I will ask only one small question, how can we implement a programme that we are all interested in when, for example, one small, one small change in the Labour Act you do not allow, and then, of course, the SDP leaders leave among the first to sign on the referendum. So I call for a principle debate on what is political and any other responsibility in this and in the implementation of the economic recovery programme, Madam MPs, but certainly the responsibility of each of us. Therefore, the minimum amendments to the Law amending the pension insurance law, etc. As far as spending cuts are concerned, I absolutely agree, only we in the government must when it comes to reducing expenditure always finish the sentence and some of you in the debate do not. So when it comes to spending, then you should, as someone said a moment ago of courage and say we suggest reducing pensions, social benefits and wages, etc. This government says, no, we don't think at this point that it would be good or smart if you wanted, not a patriotic decision, so don't cut pensions at this point, not crash an additional standard of citizen and citizen. And of course the question certainly for those who today have a lot of observations on budget and expenditure, a very simple and short question, why didn't you vote to spend the budget for 2011. In 2012 and 13, they do not increase, but rather remain at the same level, and they all have the obligation to fit into that framework. Here, I ask that the debate be really based on arguments and facts, no politicizing and no planting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62924	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62925	I'm correcting an incorrect quote. I'd just like to supplement Madam Prime Minister, I think that... We should not discuss Zagreb Holding, I will add it to the example of Đakova, where 5.5 months the mayor was from HDZ, and has charged the city with 40 million kuna. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Itd, etc. However, I call on you to turn to the budget in this part of the budget and the way to get out of this crisis, and we cannot come out of the crisis as all the regions of Croatia do not come out of the crisis and I see no savings that you have achieved from these regulations on the merger of ergels because the amount remains the same. So I also remind you that time is slowly running out, here we have one hour of sand brought by my colleague Bulic, so I invite you also to the Minister of Agriculture to stick to your promises and return what the Dalmatians would say "go to your mother". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62926	Recorrecting an incorrect quote, then supplementing, that's not it. He's not laughing, but now that I'm with you, all I can do is warn and you listen. Thank you very much. It's HNS Club HSU, Mrs. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62927	I thank Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister with members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Just a brief introduction to remind Mrs. Prime Minister that I am speaking on behalf of HNS HSU still the opposition club, as well as the SDP still the opposition club, and therefore none of us can prevent the amendments to the Labour Act from being prevented by any other law, because the laws are passed by the majority and are the responsibility of the majority, and if you want to change the Labour Act, change it by most votes, you still have it last time we counted. Now, as far as the direct subject ahead of us is concerned. Yesterday night, I got a message from a young entrepreneur who says, "Barba Shucker says on the journal that this is the best budget yet, that we laugh or we cry"? I suppose during the debate, Barba Shuker or Minister Shuker, as we've been going for 8 years, will be called in this House, I guess he'll say more times that there's no problem because the state pays salaries and pensions, and all that's wrong, I'm undermining 8, this 8th budget of this government is also Racan's government, which is why I don't count rebalancing but only the regular budget, so the 8th budget of this government, so all that's wrong is Racan's government. The note of Bene and that with salaries and pensions has become extremely questionable in view of the 320 thousand unemployed by the end of this year, which are salaries that these 320 thousand unemployed receive by the end of this year, no one has these salaries. When you say you pay wages, you pay salaries to state and public servants, and wages in the real sector fall, or unemployment rises. There are 320 thousand unemployed in the real sector, no one pays them any wages, and according to this budget and those pensions you pay off, it looks like they're actually going to fall by about 5%. What are we gonna do with that? As regards the Law on Fiscal Discipline mentioned here, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Government, it is minimum courtesy to adopt the Law on Fiscal Discipline at the beginning of their own mandate, not after the last budget. If you wanted fiscal discipline, you had two mandates. You could have brought it in at the beginning of your first term, you asked for the Law on fiscal discipline at the beginning of the second term, not after the 8th budget. Why are you going to be the next one, regardless of whose government you're going to pass the Fiscal Discipline Act? Allow that parliamentary majority to the next, whoever she is and that government to the next whoever she is to be at the beginning of her term of office and as appropriate to pass the Law on fiscal discipline, and not after the last budget in her second term. That's a little excessive. So let's see a brief review, a brief history of this budget, so-called The best so far. In 2008, 115 billion revenue and 118 billion expenditures and a 2.5 billion deficit were planned. In other words, it is planned to spend 2.5 billion more than it will enter the state register. So it then increased to 2.8 billion in the first rebalance, as 118 billion in 2008 was planned and 121 billion in expenditures. So, it's going to be 118, it's going to be income, it's going to be in the cash register, it's going to be in if you want the home budget, and 2.8 billion are going to be missing in terms of what's planned to be spent. Let me remind you, that same year, the 2009 projection was one billion, the difference between income and expenditure of the state budget. And for 2010, it's really that encouraging, the plan was that we'd be in surplus 1.1 billion. So in 2010, according to this projection, we were supposed to make a profit in the state budget of 1.1 billion more than we would have spent. And that revenue was projected at 130 billion. And then it came in 2009 and there was a budget first where it took 124 billion, and it had to spend 126 billion and some 2.6 billion would have been in debt. That amendment was settled at the last minute. However, after three rebalancings, we ended up with a rebalance of 31 July 2009 that had no more than 124 billion on one income, but were 111 billion, and the expenditures were 120 billion. And we've come from 2.6 billion in debt at once to 9 billion, 9.3 to be exact billions. And then she came in 2010. In 2010, it was planned to enter 112 billion and to spend 121 billion and the difference, so what we're going to spend, and it's not going to make the state 8.6 billion. But it happened and that's the rebalancing of August 30th to earn 108 billion, and it was planning to spend 122 billion, so we came to a 14 billion debt deficit, or deficit. And now that's otherwise the 14 billion deficit is for the same year that only 2008 was planned to be in surplus, so it's going to go into the budget more than we're going to spend 1.1 billion. So in one 2.5 years, from a higher profit of the state budget than the cost of 1.1 billion, it suddenly turned into a 14 billion debt. And finally for 2011, we have a proposal to accept a budget of 107 billion, and it will spend 122 billion. So we'll spend more than we have on home budget 14.8 billion. It's required of us after all these projections to accept. That's unacceptable. Ask anyone, ask any housekeeper, ask anyone if he's able to plan his home budget, so he'll make 107 of anything, and he'll spend 122, that's impossible. Therefore, under these conditions we are asked to support such a thing. This club of HNS and HSU can't support it. Now let's see how in this budget the best ever in three years' deficit plan for 2011 has jumped 14 billion. How is that possible? In less than a year in the 2009 case study, in less than a year from one to 9.3 billion, the deficit or that debt jumped. From where? How through this one, two, three, four procedures, so budgeting, and then three rebalancings suddenly jumped from the 2009 projection that was -1 billion jumped to a real deficit of 9.3 billion. This is why we will not look at these projections because we believe that projections or really misunderstandings of the work being done or being used are what would be said to deceive opponents. So we're going to project that it's going to get a little bit better, so they're going to swallow it a little easier because this budget is a little bit more questionable, it has a bigger deficit, and we're going to project that it's going to be better next year and then next year or in the middle of the year we're going to tell everyone the truth. That's not how people do it, especially when it doesn't matter why the deficit is spent. This deficit, and I'm going to show it right away, it's not spent on development, it's not spent on development projects, it's not spent on economic recovery. This deficit was eaten by locusts. This deficit has been eaten. If you look at 2008 to 2011, the expenditure part of the budget has increased by 1 billion, but the revenue has dropped by 11 billion. So no problem where to cut, problem is where to make money. From 2008 to 2011 11 billion less revenue in the budget, and only 1 more expenditure. As for the possibility of being saved by European funds, there is a projection here, since my time is almost over, let me just say briefly, there is a projection of the use of European funds by experts from your ministry who do not plan, I repeat, the withdrawal of funds from structural funds in 2012. They're not planning on it. And that's why there isn't, and you can't even see in the budget the planning of those accompanying funds. In fact, it is not planned that we will make that famous billion and a half as planned in the structural and cohesion funds for 2012 not at all predict that we will withdraw it. And according to these projections, so that's not planned at all, only 2013 is planned. And in short, let me tell you, and I have the data here, what we're planning for here in 2013 is that instead of withdrawing 16.2 billion kuna net how potentially we can withdraw, plan or predict that we will lose at least 2.2 billion kuna. So instead of withdrawing 16.2 billion kunas net as much as we could, it is planned that at least 2.2 billion kunas will be lost, and if something happens with incentives in agriculture maybe 3.6. So, from the European funds, we're also not going to help each other. I wanted to say one more thing, but I see that the time has expired, and two Croatias, about the fact that the mass of salaries for employees in the state and public sector has grown 50% since 2003, and on the other hand that they are employed in the real sector so in the economy, so those without whom neither teachers nor teachers nor doctors nor civil servants can receive salaries, that they have lost only over the last two years, will lose 120 thousand jobs by the end of the year. Where will the wages be paid? He needs both teachers and doctors, where the wages will be paid. So there's one Croatia, it's a state public sector and there's another, it's a real sector that's being killed here. Because of all this, and also many other things that I don't have time to say here anymore, and my colleagues from the HNS and HSU Club will talk in the debate, the HNS and HSU club will not support this budget, and I ask you to think very well about it too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62928	Thank you. I'm asking that we stick to time and so on, so we can do replicas and then we can fill in what we had to say later. Now we have corrections to incorrect allegations. First it's Madam Representative Gyurjica twilight, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62929	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I will correct Mrs Vesna Pusic's incorrect allegations that he said on TV the other day that this is the best budget. That is not true, and I will quote the words of Minister Shuker: "This is a real budget during which we live. This budget guarantees Croatian citizens that they will receive salaries, pensions, social demands and all government obligations to be implemented in 2011. year." This is a quote, so a quote, and that is why I repeat it is not your quote, and it is equally true that both doctors and nurses and cleaning women and everyone else will receive it, especially our pensioners and all social and maternity benefits. Well, maybe that's very sorry for you because you didn't vote for it or rebalancing it, so then you must be sorry, but that's because this is Croatia that needs to be kept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62930	Thank you. This is an example of how to fix it, so quote it. Thank you very much. Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62931	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the inaccuracies of Mrs Vesna Pusic's colleague, who said one inaccuracy. Minister Shuker didn't say this was the best budget, I don't know if you got it from this young entrepreneur, obviously she wasn't looking well at Journal 3. Minister Shuker said this is a budget that allows the payout of salaries, pensions, social contributions, provides capital investment within the framework of the implementation that allows the implementation of the economic recovery programme, but we still have to say that this budget deficit is much lower than in most European countries. That's what Minister Shuker said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62932	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62933	Comrade Pusic allow me to correct your text message you received. Minister Shuker didn't say that this was the best budget, but that this was the best answer in the situation we're in, as my colleagues have said. However, what your colleague Milanovic would say is whether you are aware that with these arguments you cannot deceive the Croatian people and win the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62934	Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62935	Thank you, Mr. President. It is an incorrect allegation, as counterpart Pusic said, that in the household it is impossible to plan the revenues of 107 something and the expenses of 122 something. It is possible to plan as much today as it was possible in 2003 when these expenditures were 12.9 billion more than they were revenues. Secondly, I am sorry that you consider Croatian citizens as locusts, as you said, because this budget goes to pensions and salaries. So it goes to Croatian citizens, and these aren't locusts like you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62936	Correction Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62937	Mrs. Pusic said the deficit wasn't... It was eaten by locusts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mrs Pusic, he has been spent in part and in financing the public needs precisely for salaries, pensions, social giving of these people, categories of which you expect today votes or tomorrow votes that you promise 200000 new jobs, and today here in Parliament you call them locusts. Well, I think you might be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62938	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62939	So here's a colleague saying this budget was eaten by locusts. So, if we know that this budget is going to a lot of retired people, unemployed people, births, and workers in the ex-guarantee shipyards, now it also goes to all voters because it is intended to be money for elections, parliamentary elections, for a referendum on entering Europe. So obviously according to her, we are the land of locusts, so please feel free to apologize to the inhabitants of this country for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62940	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62941	I am correcting the article, namely the violation of Article 209 to correct something that has not been said. In fact, it's not said, and if you actually only seemed that you might be able to correct it. It is not said that the people who are citizens of this country are locusts but that governments that have been so wasteful have acted as locusts. So the governments that behave like that are locusts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62942	Since locusts aren't meant for the Rules of Procedure, they can't say anything. And another correction, Mrs. Representative Sunny Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62943	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although my predecessors have already corrected it, I'll do it again. I'll correct the incorrect assumption. So it wasn't hard these days to listen carefully to what the Prime Minister was saying, and this time I'm going to refer to what was said by Minister Schuker, that it's about the best budget. So you shouldn't always trust all text messages. You know, sometimes people may not be so well-meaningly texting you, so it's better to check. So, among other things, Minister Schuker said there would be no new tax burdens, that the protection of the most vulnerable groups would be maintained and there would be no further reduction in wages and pensions. So, if we're getting text messages, then we need to check them out, and I'm going to repeat again about the real budget, the budget that will guarantee payouts, pensions, social benefits, protection of the most vulnerable groups and the socially sensitive budget. A little more courteous behavior than locusts and cowardice would be much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62944	Thank you. Prime Minister and Finance Minister Mr. Ivan Shuker came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62945	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I said what I said and you can see it on Journal 3, so there's no need to pollemize it. However, what I would like to say is for the Croatian public. When someone's talking about the budget, and in life he hasn't put together a single budget and starts reciting numbers, then it turns out this way today as it turns out. That, in addition to these figures that are nominally here today, the fiscal projections of the Croatian National Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which were at that time, would have shown any reason why the revenue side of the budget was so planned. Because the revenue side of the budget cannot be planned without macroeconomic projections. And if that were the case, do you think everyone in the world is crazy and doesn't only understand HNS and Mrs Pusic understand how we missed those projections. Therefore, the projections as such were accepted by EUROSTAT and they were corrected as corrected by the growth projections in the Republic of Croatia. However, unlike many independent economic analysts, from various financial institutions as well as when changing fiscal projections do not have to change the budget because they do not have one. The Government of the Republic of Croatia must change its budget. And if you saw the fiscal projections in 2008 when the 2009 budget was made, then you would see why the three-year budget projections were as they were. But when you spoke of these figures this inspired, then you forgot the key thing, which is that the deficit of the 2008 State budget, so the last year that was practically before the crisis, although the last quarter was already feeling quite a crisis was 0.8%. Practically, the Republic of Croatia had a balanced budget. And we can fight here as politically as we want today. However, the fact is that the revenues of the state budget due to the economic crisis and the fall in economic activity fell unfortunately to the level of 2007, and no one is slowing it down and no one is running away from it. But unfortunately or fortunately for those who receive funding from the state budget expenditure remained at the level of 2007, actually at the level of 2010. And when you just do one simple mathematical operation, you take what was the deficit of the State budget in 2007, and you add the reduced revenue of the 2010 budget compared to 2007 and you will be clear from where the deficit is 14 billion. But I repeat, when you do budget projections, then use macroeconomic indicators. And no investor in the world will give you credit if those estimates are as missed as you said. But you forgot one thing, Mrs Pusic, that the Republic of Croatia issued bonds on the international financial market this year when it failed for any European country. You can bang on the head all you want, but that's facts. And if it hadn't been for that, probably Croatian pensioners and state administration employees and children's allowance and social benefits would not have been paid in time. So it's one thing to dial numbers, yet I'm already to you as an opposition representative here said mathematics is an exact science, and it always has facts and cannot be philosophically lamentated about them. So that's it. The second thing is, you've been telling the truth here twice about the EU funds. The last time there was a trust debate with the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor, you said we wouldn't use 10%. You know how much is agreed at this point? 92% of your great sadness, because every success of Croatia is for you a great regret. So let’s not use this pay phone today to tell the truth, we can talk about how we want the spending party to look one way or another. After all, it is the political and civil right of all of us, and we can disagree with this or that, but if we say that we can reduce the expenditure side by so much and so much, then the simplest thing is to say the position that and that, so much and so much, the position of that so much and so much, and we will very simply come to a decrease in the budget. And we don't have to argue about it. It's just facts. However, the revenue side of the state budget can be said that someone would suggest a different tax policy, why not. And we can discuss that, too, but let's get that back to the budget. Let's take a look at what this would mean for Croatian citizens and what it would mean for the Croatian economy, because no one will say, for example, that profit tax revenue has fallen by 50% in the last two years, from about 10 billion to 5 billion. That consumer tax revenues have fallen. Let's talk about it. However, to come like this and to present simply facts that do not stand, which are not based on what is crucial, are figures, but the basis for these figures is macroeconomic projections. Look at the macroeconomic projections, not the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but any independent economic institution that was at that moment, so you'll see that all these figures that you were talking about at that point had a lot of coverage. Therefore, Mrs Pusic, as far as the EU funds are concerned, you are simply wrong, unfortunately for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62946	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First, Madam Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62947	So as far as EU funds are concerned, Minister Schucker should know, because this is a report by the committee you run, which says that by 31.8.2010 1% of IPA 3A and 1% was used, that is traffic and 1% of IPA 3B. From IPA 3A, 30% and 3B 50% were to be used during this same period. So in one case, 30% was used, and in the same period as the other, and the environment was to be used 50%, 1% used, for the period of reference to which it was to be used, so 30% was used 1%. That's the data from the commission you run. At least we should know that. And as for whether I am happy or not, the success of Croatia on the European path, Mr Shuker, I was here, and elsewhere in Europe when you walked here with Ivo Sanader out of this assembly. So don't talk to me about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62948	Thank you. This part does not fall under the correct rule, and before another correction is made, I would like to inform you that at 17 and 21 it is time for a 10-minute application. And I would also like to inform you that there are still six other clubs and 88 MPs who have been reported. For information and behavior, we still have one correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62949	Mr. President, how are we going to work? How long are we going to work tonight?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62950	We'll work, I suggest we finish the clubs tonight, and we'll start an individual discussion tomorrow, approximately. Let's move on, we have another correction, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62951	Don't shout it right away, I didn't say a word. I don't want to talk about Europe. I want to correct Minister Shuker's allegations about tax revenues. You, Mr. Minister, must know that in Croatia today, special units of local self-government have almost 50% lower income tax revenue based on income tax, which speaks enough about the state of the economy in Croatia. It is also not visible in these projections for 2012 and 2013 at all this government's intention to... units of local self-government, and to pay back taxes on local self-government units, which you only took to the city of Zagreb, because the tax was charged towards the company headquarters, not where it was realized. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] So here's why I'm not asking you, but I'm giving you all the advice to figure out what kind of situation local self-government units are in particular in Slavonia. Because here... The city of Djakovo has... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62952	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62953	Let me finish. Let go of your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62954	It's not common.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62955	40 million, e.g. The city here in northwestern 150.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62956	Please. Thank you very much. It is not the purpose of correcting an incorrect allegation to suggest and explain something, but to correct an incorrect quote. Here was a replica proposal, actually a debate. But as it is, I don't know how, who's chairing a session like he can have powers except to warn. Here. I ask you to refrain from commenting and proposing in the context of an incorrect quote, yes. Thank you very much, let's move on. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62957	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Madam President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, there's been a budget debate, so I'd rather say that we disagree with the allegations that the budget has been passed quickly and abruptly because we've had opportunities or difficulties to participate in dozens and dozens of budget meetings in recent months. These meetings were very difficult, sometimes agonizing because ministers had to give up material expenditures, deny what normal functioning was to be kept within the promise made by the government. And that's that in the pre-election year it won't increase expenditure. It's courage, and I don't know any other government in Europe and beyond that, which in the pre-election year, has frozen its own expenses. This is proof that the state's interest in this budget is ahead of party interests and that is welcomed by the HDZ club. The budget debates started long before he came before we did. Most of the comments were that the spending party was too high and that it needed to be cut. We've heard remarks that expenditures should be reduced by 10 billion kuna, then 2 billion kuna, etc. As counterpart Dragan Kovacevic said, no one said what would be cut. What could have been cut we could have read in those who support the arrival of the IMF. It would cut wages, pensions, health benefits, social welfare benefits, maternity benefits and a lot of other things. It's the easiest thing to do, come and cut wages and pensions. But what's the consequence? Not just social uncertainty, falling standards. The result is economic. The reduction, reduction of wages and pensions, purchasing power of the population, reduced purchasing power and production, reduced production and trade decreased VAT, decreased budget filling and ended... And that's why the government didn't accept such painful cuts because these painful cuts are more damage than they're using, as is the case with cuts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's well affected in this budget is precisely recognition of the moment. The moment before EU entry, the moment when social stability is also an entity through which Europe will appreciate this Croatia. With a unstable social state, Europe's citizens would be unhappy to ask if it needs another member. I think we don't think we should, too. This budget has brought in three important things. First, it allowed sustainable social peace because it guarantees everyone for the next year their salary, their pensions, their health care, their social protection. It enables the introduction to further recovery of the economy based on a programme that the Prime Minister Kosor government has adopted. And thirdly, it allows the country to prepare to join the EU. All of these three are equally important, so I'm going to say a few words about each one. As for the wage cuts, let's just remember in the 2000s when we caused a whole series of lawsuits and later paid billions and billions of employees to prosecutors. Of course, that pay cut had absolutely no positive effect. Let us also remember large cuts in the short term that did not reduce the deficit of the state budget, so it had to be compensated for the sale of HT, INA, Pliva, Rijeka Banka, etc. And that's an example of how brave, sharp cut isn't always a good cut. In modern surgery with small cuts, much better results are achieved than ever with large cuts. As far as economic recovery is concerned, this budget is also important because it did not impose new tax duties, as it allowed investment in 30 projects proposed by the government, as it allowed the removal of bureaucratic barriers to investment, which already provides the programmes, which already results. The overall responsibility that is particularly the target of different critics is far less than we had in some earlier years. The total debt of 4.3% falls under the smallest EU responsibilities. And that task, when we look at next year's projection -2.7 and the next -1.3, definitely makes Croatia an attractive member of the EU, a country that will not cause a problem with the budget deficit. We must say that in this budget we also see signs of recovery, which is not unusual because we are in a quarter where VAT is positive. So that's why we see a planned VAT increase here, the VAT is a measure of the pulse of economic development, we see both the increase in contributions to both health insurance and pension insurance and employment. That's all the signs that we're starting to get out of the crisis. The results that can be linked to this budget are also on the financial table. If such a recovery had begun, let it also be said that 64 of the 93 funds in the Republic of Croatia were on the rise last week. Which is absolutely data and financial, not just economic recovery. What should be noted here is that the adoption of the budget by this rapid procedure has also yielded a good fast result, and how difficult it is to get the budget can also be presented to you tonight's drama when the EU budget has not been adopted. The EU budget was not adopted because the countries could not agree on the expenditure side. Therefore, the problem of Croatia is also reflected in the problem of all countries in crisis. And now the EU will be financed 3 to 4 months from the provisional budget of one 12 last budget for each month. Croatia will not go that way but will bring its budget for the next year before its application and thus enable all participants to plan both in the economy and in the social and state sectors. As far as Europe is concerned, we need to mention a few more things. This budget definitely provides funding for the Schengen Agreement, which is not irrelevant, even increased to 105 million, so around 5%. This budget has also used everything needed for pre-accession funds and for our participation in this, this budget provides what is needed for a referendum on entry into the European Union, so this budget has ensured Europe's security, and that Europe is getting a stable state we need to provide some more information that is the same about this agreement. I was already talking about a deficit of -4.3 among the smallest in Europe, Europe had smaller deficits in 2006, 2007 had a budget deficit of -0.6 but it grew today to almost 7 why? Because the crisis was in Europe as the crisis was in Croatia. When I say that the crisis was, I mean, the dynamics that we are always preceded by, Europe goes from crisis to crisis, and Croatia is not going. It is simply not true, Croatia went into crisis later after Europe, proof. In 2008, the growth of the EU's GDP was 0 and Croatia was still +2, so why didn't anyone object? Just as late as we were with the GDP drop, we're now late for recovery. And that's why the year ahead is crucial, and that's why this budget is crucial for the final recovery. There's something else to say about public debt. Public debt is always referred to in public as some kind of preceding weight of Croatia that will sink it. The public debt of the Croatian state compared to our gross social product is among the smallest in Europe, I already said about this speaker, I know that it will not be reproduced in the media, the total debt per capita in Slovenia is twice but in Croatia. No one will say that because it shows that we are not the most in charge and that we are not tragically in charge. As far as this total debt is concerned, compared to a gross social product that in Croatia 48% is climbing over 80% today in the European Union, unfortunately over 90% planned for 2011. Again, the Croatian European Union is being disciplined by a stable country in terms of spending beyond its means. Here, perhaps, it should be said that our banks should be included in this budget as well as in the overall recovery and application of all economic measures. I don't know why you don't mention it. Our banks that have already reached more than 3 billion kunas in this year, as far as we can only assume, so I ask why our banks are better than everyone else, why they don't share the fate of the economy, why our banks and who's responsible have interest that are two or three times bigger than the competing countries in Europe and finally why our banks have the right to cluster behaviour and others don't. Every new bank brings bigger and bigger interest, there's no competition. These days in Slovenia, it is decided that money from the ATM can be raised without compensation, why in Croatia we pay 10 kuna per such procedure, why we pay what is ours. So if banks were to include those who had to control them, then I'm sure next year the gross social product would be over 2%. And another thing is why these banks would not, like banks in the European countries, credit the economy but at their estimated risk, it is easy to borrow something guaranteed by the Government but the bank needs to assess the investment programme, assess the mortgage, take it and give money, in other words and banks should take part of the risks that all other sectors of the Croatian economy take. What are we going to say in the conclusion of the analysis of this budget? This budget has no alternative, any cutting with a painful knife would mean a social threat. Perhaps some who suggest it would want it but not for economic reasons but for other reasons. They will not experience it with this budget because there will be no reason to fill the streets with dissatisfaction because they will get what belongs to them with this righteous distribution. Citizens and citizens of Croatia have created their own country not to suffer but to share with dignity what we have in the crisis, and this budget allows them to do so. And another message from this budget. Don't be afraid of the evil prophets who say we can't do it alone, we need the IMF. We listened to such prophets both in 91 and 95, and then they said we couldn't do it ourselves, but we had enough confidence, knowledge and courage, and we were able to get out of this crisis ourselves, without help from the side, without tutoring on the side because we know that we can and therefore I think in the conclusion that this budget represents a victory of solidarity over exclusion, a victory of sensitivity over cruelty, a victory of reason over the verse and a victory of a vision of despair. This is the State budget for those who believe that we know and can, this is the State budget for those who have confidence and knowledge, and the crisis requires, all crises and economies, crises require wisdom and confidence, this State budget, that is, and that is why we will give it support.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62958	Thank you. We have two corrections. The first is Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62959	Come on, Mr. Hebrang, that we can do without a tutor on the side, we have this year, Mr. MP, we have to borrow 24 points something billion kuna to finance the budget, with extra budget funds there will be over 30 billion kuna for next year. This year, the Republic of Croatia borrowed nearly 45 billion kuna with extra budget funds according to Mr Rohatinski. Almost nine billion, yes, Mr. Schucker, as you do further, it's $9 billion that's very difficult but it's gonna take someone to get back. It's not that anything is cut off, health benefits - 600 million kuna, don't pensions fall down by this law where it's nice to say, that we don't reduce we have a final bill on the suspension of pensions and does this policy of losing jobs from August 2009 to August 2010 by 102 thousand people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62960	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. It's not a correction, it's a debate, and the debate is when you report 10 minutes or 15 on behalf of the club or replica. Please, Mr. Vinkovic has a correction to the incorrect assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62961	I am correcting several incorrect allegations by the respected representative Hebrang, who said the EU is in difficulty. I wish Croatia was in such difficulty and had a budget like the EU so we could discuss it by Christmas. Mr. Hebrang also said that the government has shown responsibility with this budget. I claim that it is the opposite, it has shown complete irresponsibility because this budget leaves the entire region... /The speaker excluded./...to the people of Slavonia without one June and one kuna. ... /The speaker has been disabled./... Visions of despair... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62962	Thank you. The club of independent Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62963	Mr. Chairman, Madam President, Minister. All these 10 years I've been staying in a voting assembly and budgeting, there's been a kind of discussion between two discourses, theological and zoological. Every year we mention terms like reform, miracles, recovery which are actually terms of themanent theological discourse, or we honor zoo terms, today we heard that we were like locusts, before that we pulled other terms out of that bestiary. This is simply because the budget is indeed one document that should cover the whole. It should in some way respond to what is happening on the ground floor in everyday life and what is really our ultimate political aspirations, but also our aspirations as people, as people and as communities. In doing so, of course, the adoption of the budget is always a solemn act. It also has something ceremonial in it, or if you want, it's about a small political ritual, which of course doesn't mean that budgets don't come under dramatic circumstances. Hebrang mentioned the budget of Europe, the EU, the difficulties the European Commission faces today. And in these few years, we can also witness the budgets that were actually made when violence was going down or when the protesters were in front of parliaments of foreign or European states or governments. This is something that actually contributes to this dramatic and contribution, so we can say to the political theatre and something that definitely testifies that each budgeting is actually in a way writing small history or if you want to question the small history of the future one year ahead or three years as already budgets with their projections are being passed. In us I would say that there are no dramatic circumstances, at least it is not seen according to the reactions of the social partners and citizens, which of course does not mean that the budget is not brought forward in circumstances that are financially and economically, fiscally and budgetaryly I will not say dramatically, but certainly point to certain difficulties that arise from what we have done all these years from what we have imposed as a methodology for budget adoption. First of all, it is a question of how much we earn, how much on the other hand the costs of the state and all the budget beneficiaries are. It shouldn't be too smart to say that regardless of the government, of course the responsibility is the most borne today by the Prime Minister and the ruling majority, but that regardless of the government of all these years, we spent more than we have earned, we gave more than we could during the year, we used national goods and beyond what we created during the year and in some ways we slowly bited or ate our own substance. And this is now slowly coming at the collection particularly tight or I would say the difficult circumstances of the conditions that this comes at a delicate moment when the crisis has hit globally all of Europe and has become too late, there is Andrija's administration in Croatia. But this is the first time a government doesn't increase the budget before the election year, it doesn't go artificially into blowing up false promises to heat up false illusions in creating the impression that everything is okay and that we can pay everything. This is the first time that a government has honestly told the citizens of this country, and at the cost that elections are lost that the situation is like this and that there is no more money and that along with the projected deficit. And I think it takes courage. No one's ever done that before. Not only are the governments doing this, neither are the mayors or the mayors. Just look at the local elections in 2009. The crisis has already affected local budgets. It was so much inflating, so much creation, I repeat false illusions, so many false promises, although we all knew it wouldn't be possible to achieve the budgets of the previous year, let alone increase the budgets. And it's only fair to the citizens of this country to tell them that this is a budget that in some way means freezing existing public spending, ensuring that we can call it social peace, or some existential calm citizens, mostly those who are or whose salaries are paid out of the state budget and depend on the state budget, and that, unfortunately, there are too many pensioners who are otherwise hard to live in, and so we can say a certain level of spending, or development projects that are all these years, so we've kind of continued them and who should continue and during the following year. It is only fair in these circumstances, and of course it should be clearly repeated and this projected deficit and what we will have to borrow is just an instrument of just ensuring social and existential tranquility and these development projects for which we have at all substances or we have a chance and opportunity to implement them. Anything else would actually be a public deception, a public deception and, in fact, lead to even greater borrowing, leading to even more false promises that would very quickly be derailed. Another important fact to say about this budget is that it is still brought with a certain agreement of the social partners and that it was not forced to change the laws, that it was not forced to lower wages. We all remember that civil servants were left without part of their rights, which we then had to aliminate and return to court judgments threefold compared to what we actually achieved as a final effect. Therefore, if we say this to the public today, then they will also know that by ensuring wages, pensions, rights, social rights and other rights from the state budget actually doesn't have enough of them, we can say, so to speak, the other side or the rest of the budget that we can even use from that cookie, the total state budget cake for development. I'd like to, and I think the government needs to, and it can think about it more, to pay attention to investment. The prime minister talked about it today, but unfortunately this is going too slow in Croatia. We are all aware that we have too little direct foreign investment, developmental, industrial. You can unfortunately count on the fingers of one hand an industrial investment in the Republic of Croatia all these 8 years. They are too small, they are inefficient in terms of labour needs, relative to the number of unemployed and pre-war industrial production. We are still, ladies and gentlemen, at 63% of pre-war industrial production. With such industrial production without foreign investment, without investment in industry, in jobs, in the export-oriented industry we will eat our substance regardless of whether the government will be left or right or more prone to either side. This is absolutely and it should be said to citizens, it has nothing to do with it, it is not a matter of political preferences or policy orientations, but it is actually a fundamental economic and then, of course, the social and political issue of this country. I'm glad that exports are finally growing, but I think the Prime Minister together with Minister Shuker, with HBOR, with the economy minister can find a way to invest more over the year in the economy. It doesn't have to be just a budget, it can be funds, it must be European funds and it must be one I would say far more entrepreneurial climate and atmosphere than we have in Croatia today. We are in the midst of a crisis and it should be acknowledged and it should be changed urgently, we have a situation in which entrepreneurs are not trusted, in which people who invest, people who hire, people who make good under suspicion anyone who creates or has something is declared malt not a tycoon, a thief, a man who should be specifically investigated. It's something that will come to this country's heads. There is not a single European country that has not just raised the value of entrepreneurial ideas at the moment and told people to invest. We create a climate where almost daily someone accuses, investigates or finds guilty. Who will invest in a country like this, with the latest example of Rugvica Municipality where someone smart wrote that we don't need Ikea because they sell bad furniture. We simply must, especially the Government and we in the Parliament change such a general state of hold a thief, let us doubt everything, we ask that all those who invest must be under special increase. No, you need to release the investments, of course, if they're in accordance with the law. Thank God all these entrepreneurs have to go twice as many administrations in Croatia as in any European country, and then it is twice the possibility that the administration is corrupt, but it is twice the possibility that they can easily reach their investments. It is not necessary to mention Rockovo, Flower Square, I do not want other investments to enter, it should only be made clear that, with what the Government can do to encourage the economy and we all need to change the general atmosphere and contribute to the value of entrepreneurial ideas and achievements finally beginning to be appreciated. Without the right evaluation of entrepreneurship, without value and promotion of investment in direct production, industrial production, in exporting me to whatever government I have and whatever I have done with the deficit as an instrument, we have absolutely no developmental chances. And that's why I think we can still change that picture in terms of public representation. It would also be good if we could make more use of European funds. I disagree with those who often talk about it and say that nothing has been done. It has been done a great deal since Croatia is in the heads, in the mentality of a deeply feudal country, that in Croatia you do not have regionally dimensioned projects that the European Union favors, that our projects end at the border of the municipality, city or county, which is far, far away, far below those regionally dimensioned projects that we could finance today, especially infrastructure projects. I don't mind saying that at this point, some of the counties are reporting projects for the exploitation of static fertilisers and similar boasting that they have received EU funds. But you have to tell me, on the fingers of one hand, we could count infrastructure projects again. Here's a question for you, Carlovec. It was already six years ago that a European project of collectors or Vinkovci was being talked about, I have not heard that it has been achieved or perhaps already has. But we waited too long and waited, I think what the Minister of Environment, Croatian Waters and others are doing to register, to wait for these projects, to have building permits and that the moment the funds are opened, we can apply immediately. I think that it is good and that it should be welcomed and that the Government should actually be, in this sense, government or someone on behalf of the Government, the right agencies that would round up these projects, which would break through these feudal mentalities, that every project ends at the border of my municipality, my village or my city, and that we finally present such regional projects, we apply because we will get far more resources for them than we can get for some kind of preparation of projects today or for administrative services or for consulting. I'm not saying we don't need it, but it's for development far, far too little. Personally, I have to say I'm sad about the fact that the Ministry of Education is shrinking. It's not good, it's also deviating from the government's programme of action and from the coalition agreement, and I'd say from my personal principles. Croatia has only three developmental opportunities with a different climate – it is a real education, it is a second education and it is a third education. And if we don't invest more in education, I'm afraid that even if we can change all this that I've been talking about before, I'm afraid we're having a bad time because our education structure of the population is extremely unfavourable, demographic and sociological structure of the population is equally unfavourable. And without raising the education structure, we will only be unfortunately hired workers, low-income workers, and we will not be able to achieve added value in industry and production. Therefore, with ours here, we can say so to the budget and that we will vote in favour of the budget, I think it would be good to consider as much as possible with this deficit in the economy and see if now or in the rebalancing process can still provide greater funds for education.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62964	Thank you. HDSSB representative club Mr. Denko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62965	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Prime Minister, ministers, honourable MPs and MPs. Today we have a draft budget for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. The document is this on more than 300 pages of written material here which light saw a little over 24 hours ago on the websites, and the Assembly representatives also had opportunities in writing here to find here today in the assembly. And the document of such a fateful meaning for the entire state and for each of its citizens' representatives should be discussed under such conditions. While the citizens of Croatia all events on the political scene follow with fear for their own and the future of their children, with fear for their property and their roof over their heads, we decide not only on the fate of Croatia but also on their fate. But we are deciding on a document that I believe did not have until the end of time to read even those who propose it, all members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, without talking about representatives of the ruling majority in the Parliament who will vote as they are told at the club, whatever the document says. That, in line with the famous statement, is still the current finance minister, Mr. Ivan Shuker, who also votes for unread documents. But let's start with an analysis of this draft budget. This proposal is not acceptable for HDSSB representatives for a number of reasons. Two groups are the most important to us. This is a regionally unacceptable and nationally unacceptable reason. We're going to the first group. A few weeks ago here in the Parliament on behalf of the HDSSB club, I was talking about the maternal relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Slavonia and Baranja. At that time, we pointed to the government's unsustainable end-to-end relationship, which accounts for 20% of the population and 20% of the territory it returns to, does not give, instead of at least, 4 and a half to 8% of the state budget. We also pointed out the incredible fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the economic recovery plan and the state presented through 30 projects worth almost 14 billion euros forgot about Slavonia and Baranja, predicting only the sparrows known every four years the Danube-Sava Channel project, which, by some miracle, would mean only 6.8% of the investment that the Government is thinking of generating out of the crisis. And Slavonia and Baranja already account for 20% of the population and territory. We wanted to justifiably point to the unbalanced status of Slavonia and Baranja in relation to the rest. And what did we get from today's budget proposal? Here's an example. This draft budget provides for a little more than 7 billion and 140 million kuna in the total expenditure of the state budget for capital investments, current and capital aid. In the even distribution of these funds to Slavonia and Baranja, which makes up a fifth of Croatia, this would mean about a billion and 400 million kuna. And the draft budget, which is ahead of us for all five Slavonian-Baranja Countys, envisions a little more than 356 million kuna or a little less than 5%. Another example of a natural disaster is not something that is specific only to Slavonia and Baranja, and I agree with that. They're possible and they happen anytime and anywhere. However, given the structure of production in Slavonia and Baranja where agriculture is a strategic branch, it is understandable that there are both the most frequent and the greatest damages from elementary disasters. And in today's 2011 Budget Proposal for the compensation of these damages, the government has projected 20 million kunas per year instead of this year's 320 million kunas or only 6.3% of this year's funding. They'd say "a whole lot of people don't believe" and "a deaf cry of despair doesn't hear" and Slavonia and Baranja don't ask for anything that doesn't belong to her. We're just looking for what we've earned, and we're doing business in a joint cash register called the state budget. The second group of reasons for the general national, almost believed in the section or not that HDZ's rule in seven years of Croatian rule managed more than to double the country's debt from 22 billion euros in 2004 to more than 45 billion today. So what on earth did you spend that money on? Where the vast billions of euros ended when the economy is where it is, when we have an army of more than 300,000 unemployed in front of us, when we have more than 80,000 people working, and for that they don't get paid, when poverty has taken on the scales of the endemics, and threatens to grow into an epidemic. And what do we have today? A budget in which 22 billion kuna should be paid and refinanced, and for schooling, for example, 11 billion kuna, and we said we wanted to be a land of knowledge. Instead of a land of knowledge, we became a land of debt. And while we all seek austerity measures at every turn for the ruling there is no savings. In the era of universal unemployment, over-indebted debt and pre-collapsed economy, the government announces and moves to purchase more than 1200 new cars. Well done! This is too much for Croatia. But here are a few more interesting examples, I'd say more disturbing examples. As unpopular as this was, it was not unexpected in the proposal for a new budget to find information that, for example, in the distribution of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, there was a reduction in expenditure by around 700 million kuna. The burden of crisis should be borne by everyone. This is the basic premise that we hear from the rulings almost every day, and we agree with that. However, among those invited to contribute to this savings were certainly Croatian defenders. I'll give you an example. This is how the 2011 draft budget provides for a reduction in revenue by 115 million kuna, but should we not all bear the same burden of crisis and savings? Is there more equal again, and what is worse? Is it possible that more equal than those who created this state are those who destroyed it? Is it normal and possible for the new budget to save on the health of Croatian citizens 700 million kuna, 115 million kuna on the rights of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War, while at the same time increasing expenditures by 16.3% in the division of the National Minorities Office? And it is not disputed to finance from the state budget of the national minority, however, but how and thus explain that so-called The General Council of the Vukovar Municipality is for the first time starting to finance from the state budget with a million and a half kuna in both this and the next two years? For 26 and a half million kuna, expenditure on care for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War has been reduced, 21 million kunas are reduced per year for the social empowerment of disabled people. The funds for the funeral costs of the Homeland War defenders are completely abolished. For 3 million kunas, funds for the employment of Croatian defenders are reduced. And by 1.3 million kuna, funds for funding associations from the Homeland War have been reduced, and for the joint council of Vukovar municipalities a million and a half kuna are given. So who and why? Those who quietly or loudly approve of what Vojislav Stanimirovic is saying, for some new, postpartum SAO Krajina, or peace plan Z4? Or an example of the distribution of assistance to local self-government units. As almost all units of local self-government reduce this aid to a year, municipalities with the majority Serb population are increasing. The biggest defeat is recorded by the Šodolovci municipality, which will not be trusted next year compared to this year 247% of the funds compared to this year, as aid. What's going on with us? While Vojislav Stanimirovic is making fun of all of his statements about Croatian victims, while Croatian Defence Minister comes to Osijek to defend the thesis that he calls Stanimirovic for such hate speech, while even on the anniversary of the first Croatian president Franjo Tudjman in Mirogoj, you meet with the people who earn by selling under the Croatian 4S tricolour, while before the anniversary of the death of Croatian civilians and defenders disappear overnight and a memorial of the plates in their places, while in the weekly news that he or she has funded and this abundant Croatian state budget delights in the loss of members of Croatian Air Force, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the proposal of the budget for defenders cuts, sick savings, and those who did not even want to give more than they had. Care, protection and development of the rights of members of all national minorities yes, but not at the expense of Croatian defenders and Croatian national beings. Gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, are the three votes of the representatives of the SDSS more valuable than dignity and mention of the Croatian sacrifice? Is the chair of the Prime Minister and the Minister worth more than national pride? We agree despite everything that has happened to be equal, but at no cost do we agree to be more equal than any of us, especially those who have to and should be happy that they can be equal. And finally, this state budget, in our opinion, is prepared overnight and through its knees, almost wrapped up in the veil of state secrets, this way of adopting a state budget is absolutely inadmissible, especially if it is known that this rash proposal is the result of and severe internal accounts within the ruling HDZ. Such a proposal for a state budget is a continuation of the maternal relationship between the central government and the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja. Croatia urgently needs not only another, but a different power. You can't spend more than you earn, and it's well said, we can't do it in our own house, and we can't do it in the country either. This government, in search of a path that leads to the way out of the crisis, has lost itself like Ivica and Marica in the woods, which the birds have scratched the crumbs that were supposed to lead them to a lifesaving path. The citizens of Croatia will be very happy to mark the path to this government which will mean salvation, not for the government, but for the Republic of Croatia. It is a one-way road, a road that leads out of the Ban Courts, for the sake of Croatia and all its citizens. And in the end, one interesting thing. The budget deficit for next year is planned at nearly 15 billion kuna. Interesting. Such projections are the amount of robbed state money in the term of fugitive Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. In view of the responsibilities of other officials from the circle of their closest associates, but also of all HDZ representatives who did not think in the Croatian Parliament kicked hands and thus did not make it impossible to carry out this robbery, so considering all of this as a measure of recovery of the damage caused, it will not be enough just to send all those who are active and what passively made possible by this robbery, but we also propose some other measures. First, to lift all privileges for all HDZ officials in these two calls on the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. Second, to take away all of them in this way illegally acquired property. And third, introduce the obligation to return to the state of what was stolen through credit with the same amount of time until all that was stolen is returned. After the old people's door, it's like the one you scratched. At that time, it will be easier for all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia to bear their burden of leaving the crisis. The HDSSB club will certainly not support this kind of proposal from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62966	13 corrections. First representative Ivan Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62967	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would have corrected two incorrect allegations. The first incorrect assumption that our government treats Slavonia as a stepmother, and the second that we HDZ representatives will vote for something at the club without seeing it. So our Croatia is poor if we share problems in Slavonian, Dalmatian, Zagreb, Zagreb, we are a beautiful and small country and it is important for me whether it will be built at Bozica and Nevenka and Ana, and they care whether it will be built in Slavonia. Today, a 10 million kuna contract was signed for irrigation of the Karasica Basin, a number of millions of kunas arrived in Slavonia, and the mayor of Osijek-Baranja County himself said in his report that our county had withdrawn the most funds from the state budget. That's true, that's evidence. We are not ashamed that we are representatives of Slavonia, we invite our voters and citizens not only to be blind with healthy eyes and to see how much we have done in this difficult crisis of time to ensure that our Slavonia is not without pay, without pensions and without all that this government has done with honor for Slavonia. It's our pride, we're not ashamed and we're not ashamed of anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62968	Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62969	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I would also correct this incorrect quote by my colleague Buric, who said the government has a maternal relationship with Slavonia and is not investing in Slavonia. Namely, I would only remind myself, I will not return to the past, but only to these latest projects such as the continuation of the construction of Corridor 5C, such as the construction of the southern bypass of Osijek, such as a series of water supply and disposal projects that are currently currently being implemented and built. Therefore, they are invested and invested at this point in billions of kuna. But I would also like to remind you that there is currently no capital investment being built in the city of Osijek in the arrangement of a unit of local self-government on whose authority you are. The worst part is not planning any capital investment. Therefore, it should be said that no money can get there unless there are no projects. And that's why here's your colleagues from HDSSB, Bubala and the team, tell them to start designing, and we'll be the parliamentarians making an effort to get the money into Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62970	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62971	So what to say to this debate by agent Buric except "Forgive him God for he doesn't know what he's saying."; and that is precisely why I will correct where he mentioned the external debt, and apparently he does not know the structure of the external debt. The country accounts for 5 billion euros in foreign debt or 11.2%, and 88.8% of the debt refers to the economic sectors. And it's just that it's working a little bit more for you to know, the foreign debt in 2003 applied to the country 6 billion euros at that time, and it was 37.1% at that time. So these are some parameters that you can then tell the public which are true and true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62972	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62973	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It's hard to fix everything, I'm going to try a few allegations of a respected colleague, Buric. First, it is incorrect and untrue that the Government of the Republic of Croatia worked this budget overnight and across its knees. Dear Buric, this government has prepared a budget for the adoption of the Programme for Economic Recovery of the Republic of Croatia through budget rebalances and a conclusion on the freezing of expenditure for which you and your party have not supported. And another thing, when you talk about investment and motherhood towards Slavonia, I expected you to point to projects. I heard from my colleague Kovacevic that you in Osijek-Slavonska, thanks to your party, don't even have them. Therefore, it is incorrect that the government has a maternal relationship with Slavonia because it needs to look at in the budget how much the Croatian Government is giving for the disposal and water supply this year, for the restoration of the railways, for the arrangement of ports, for education, health care and other purposes. Therefore, you can be a local patriot. My homeland is Slavonia, but my homeland is Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62974	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62975	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – speaks of an esteemed representative about something I did not say, so Osijek, but when you want – for the 2010 budget from Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County, 271 projects came from this year's budget. Do you know how much of that is accepted? Not one. Understandable. Just so much so that there are no projects from Osijek-Baranja County and the city of Osijek. There's no hearing, but look, this hourglass isn't just meant for Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62976	Well, my colleague Buric, please, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's about the controversy. You have made certain claims, MPs are certain to dispute these claims and that is to correct the incorrect allegations. Do not seek to correct an incorrect quote with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Representative incorrectly claims that there is no savings for the ruling. This is really incorrect because this government is considering Croatia's future and is based on 2 key documents. And these are the strategy of promotions and measures of economic recovery that objectively and without hiding show the state of affairs in the country. This government, Mr. MP, is strategically planning and monitoring international trends instead of bureaucratic tasks has a programming budget and is definitely focused on results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62978	Mr. Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62979	Mr. Vice-President, in a series of inaccuracies, deceptions and manipulations said by counterpart Buric, it is certainly necessary to correct the one concerning Croatian defenders. It is incorrect that the budget for Croatian defenders has been reduced, but it is true that next year it is not intended for the purchase of new cars for 100% people with disabilities. That's one thing you couldn't read. The other thing is, it is not true that there will be no funerals and money provided for Croatian defenders but they are defined in this budget in the single-rights item to be paid for the funerals of Croatian defenders. Also in a series of inaccuracies that have been made concerning funding. Surely you should also ensure your participation in projects that you nominate as well as professional quality personnel who will prepare and plan them. And I would like to say that when such delusions and manipulations are spoken of about this budget, it must certainly be pointed out that it is the art of possible, the art of income and expenditure parties and certainly Croatian defenders will remain at the same level of support that has been so far, and the planning of car procurement worth 115 million kuna is for 2012, 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62980	Comrade Buric, you are again raising a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You made certain claims, MP Djakic denied those claims. Be kind... No, not that. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62981	Don't shut me out so I don't have to take a speech aid. I also have a speech aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62982	Mr. Buric,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62983	... is a smaller budget for Croatian defenders. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] 115 million kuna lower budget. 26.5 million kuna less for the care of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62984	Mr. Buric, it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure that I repeat it twice to enter the zone to correct the correcting of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62985	Well, that only seems to you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62986	I don't think so. Second, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. ... Thank you very much, thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62987	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Buric has therefore made several incorrect allegations... He said that he... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] Furthermore, he said this budget has forgotten Slavonia and Baranja. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] I want to remind you that in Slavonia and Baranja there are pensioners and those who receive salaries regularly and in time. Namely... to save people's health here. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] It's just the Ministry of Health example... to rationalize the system, consolidate the system and improve the health system, so it's absolutely accurate and in favor of that speaking... all the other moments. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] It is a responsible way and a contribution to the consolidation of public finances, not in the way of calling everything and everyone, and in the end you are calling on Ivica and Marica. I'm afraid you've strayed into the woods and been wandering, and that's the exclusive right of one another.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62988	Okay. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. That's where I saw one of those "Zeko, zirconia and lamb" stories that turns off the microphone. One of those three tenors over there.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62989	I thank Mr. Vice President, my colleague Buric and I and this club condemn Stanimirovic's statement and we made it clear what we think I am. So, and I condemn his statement as a politician and as a doctor, and your statement as a doctor doesn't particularly accept and correct here when you talk about how to save the State budget, etc. I'm really surprised you said that because it tells me that you didn't even look at the budget. Because if you'd looked at 150 million kunas saved on sick leave, that HZZO saved 40 million kunas on administrative business, it wasn't against the health of the diaphragm. That an additional 25 million kuna has been saved in public procurement at the Ministry of Health carried out by HZZO. The information, orthopaedic aids that have extended the network has saved an additional 40 million, that the system has stabilized, etc. Therefore, this claim is incorrect and do not deceive the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62990	He can't do it three times. I can't do it again. He didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, he was correcting your incorrect claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62991	Mr. Vice President, how do you know what I want to make right? You haven't told me yet. You don't read my thoughts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62992	I'm quite a reader.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62993	You don't read, I read yours before you read mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62994	We understand each other well. Let's move on, Mr. Representative Damir Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62995	Thank you, I will correct two incorrect allegations by my colleagues, the first one that said the Croatian Defence Ministry's funds are being reduced and it should be repeated about the rights to pay for the funeral of Croatian defenders. That's not true. The funds are planned in the same amount as the one-time cash aid under the Ministry of Croatian Defence. Second, the funds for the purchase of personal cars are reduced. To reduce because 100% of the people with disabilities in the Homeland War have the right to purchase cars every 7 years and it is clear exactly how many cars and how much cost will be achieved in the following year. And thirdly, the maternal relationship of power towards the inhabitants of Slavonia and Baranja, here I will give you on a concrete example. IS investment in Pozeko-Slavonska County, which is increasing in 2010, which is increasing in 2011, the motherland, the government's maternal relationship with Slavonia and Baranja. Investments in primary, secondary and higher education are increasing. Investments in road construction, water supply investments, concrete investments in Pakrac General Hospital, and general hospital...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62996	Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62997	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will also correct the incorrect allegation and that is that the continuation, this budget that is the continuation of the government's maternal relationship with Slavonia and Baranja which is not true, is that my colleagues have corrected both Mr. Salapić and Mr. Kovacevic, and now Mr. Huška, so I would say from the entire area of Slavonia, the government is responsible for the damage to Slavonia and Baranja, and I would like to say about the damages you mentioned that this budget will be set aside only 6.3% for flood damage. It should be said that no flood should be caused but if the flood occurred then, as this year, the government would find the means to compensate for these damages, therefore, you cannot pay Slavons and Baranja that the government does not care in such situations about Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62998	Well, you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u62999	I must, this is indeed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished representative of the stories of what the other MPs have spoken, and it corrects me. Besides, when it comes to... you sitting here...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63000	He's a friend of Buric's. Let go of the bags, leave the bag. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhil, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63001	I want to correct the esteemed colleague Buric, who mentions a few hundred million savings on the burden of health, a hundred million on the defender's burden and all the rerouting towards minorities. Last year, the National Minority Office had a budget of 20 million, this year it had only 13 million, i.e. it was 66% reduced to a total of 15 million of which more than 10 million belong to the PAR programme and the IPA programme is just intended for Roma, settlement restoration, care, social and Roma education, so it is really unfair to say and correct that the funds are directed towards national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63002	Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63003	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct Mr. Buric's allegations where he says the rights of Croatian defenders are being reduced and this leads to this evidence that the nominal amount in the budget has been reduced. I claim that this government now and vice-president of the government, now the president has taken very good care of the Croatian defenders, and this is done continuously. And the fact that many of the rights are absorbed once, such as apartments or houses or cars, should be highlighted and it is clear and it is normal that in the years to come, these amounts will not be nominally increased, but rather their rights will be monitored if they are sufficient. But it doesn't make sense that your amounts increase from year to year, nominally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63004	And Mr. Representative Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63005	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct my colleague Buric's quote in the section in which he comments on the budget position under number 22/05 of assistance to local and regional (regional) self-government and is referencing to the funds allocated to the Municipality of Šodolovci in that position saying that she received double the funds and that it was taken away from someone else. Therefore, neither she nor these 70 units of local and regional (regional) self-government, which are listed here, received these funds according to some political criteria, were obtained in the manner prescribed in Article 38. Budgetary law. That when you take and read and analyze all these impulses, then you come to this conclusion and this projection in the budget as it is there. So of the 70 units of local and regional (regional) self-government, it is true that there are both Šodolovci and some other municipalities with the Serb majority. However, it is also true that the Municipality of Šodolovci is a municipality where you have the president of the council and it is also true that it is a municipality located in eastern Slavonia and Baranja more precisely in Osijek-Baranja County. So on the trail of what you've been saying here all along that certain funds need to come in, and they haven't come to the space of the Osijek-Baranja County, wait for me to finish, I guess it's in the best interest for you and all of us to have certain resources come in and raise some kind of municipal and infrastructure standard that has the same standard as they have. I'd be happier if these municipalities weren't listed in this budget point.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63006	SDSS representative club Mr. Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63007	Mr. Vice President, Madam President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This budget if you were to say something about it in one sentence, then you could say it, and that's my experience and my assessment of this budget about how it is, how it's structured is neither saved nor catastrophic. It is simply an indicator of our condition, the state of our economy, the state of our finances, the state of our needs created over a series of decades and the state of our possibilities. So he's an indicator of our reality, and that reality could be summed up in the next. While we were able to spend what was created before, a budget such as this could be supported and such as the budgets in the years before. And while there was relatively cheap money and the possibility of borrowing, to cover the deficit or to cover other holes in the budget or try to find an opportunity for development projects, then it worked out. Today, the situation is such that we are at the limit of the possibility of borrowing, and today the situation is such that we no longer have anything to sell. And overnight, we make a decision about cutting pensions or cutting salaries, we can't. This would not simply be a social, political, economic rational decision. I agree with what my colleague, Greek, said on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, and that is probably one of the few things that he could remember from today's debate. Yes, this budget, which is within the framework of what is really possible right now. But on the other hand, it's true that a budget like this won't last long. And now let me say a few things about this because the budget is no longer definitely a means for something to be done to change the situation in our economy, economy and economy. The budget is certainly no longer the instrument that we can use to change things, for where we have served unfortunately the changes have not occurred. They didn't even take part in shipbuilding, they didn't even take part in agriculture, they didn't show up at other public companies where we do. No, they're not. Unfortunately not. And we're gonna have to learn from that. But one thing's for sure, next year's budget can't be a means in which we can change something with it. By the 1990s, a colleague and a colleague, Croatia had about a million 700 thousand employees, had about 500 thousand pensioners, slightly more than 530. Meanwhile, in the last 20 years, we have lost nearly 300 thousand employees, and the number of pensioners has increased from 530,000 to nearly a million, 200 thousand. The continued decline of employees in Croatia and the continued increase in the growth of pensioners is something that simply cannot be covered by any budget and not by this. There's no economy in the long run that could take it. And the economy we have may best reflect the fact that in the last two weeks three shopping malls have been opened. One in Zagreb, one in Split, one in Zadar. How many industrial plants are open? The Prime Minister was in Vukovar yesterday and opened one, but how many strategic long-term plants are open? Unfortunately, a little. Very little. This kind of policy in the sphere of economics if we continue it in the next period we will be returned absolutely as a failure. Not this budget, but that kind of policy will come back to us. It's another thing. In Croatia over 50% of the land is unprocessed, agricultural land. We are last year and this year we will and next year we will have relatively high subsidies in agriculture. But in these malls that I'm talking about, which are open in Zagreb, Split and Zadar, I don't believe you can find 10% of Croatian products. I don't think so. I'm talking about agriculture. Isn't that the thing that we need to worry about, isn't that the thing that we need to worry about in the long term in terms of that word or we're going to be dealing with the budget as a political toy as we do these days, and then eventually, more or less, we turn the Parliament into a pub where everything and everything is possible, and at least it's possible to hear people who can hear something or should say something too much about it. As regards the support of this budget, the SDSS Representatives' Club after considering all aspects of this, especially after the debate on the issues of the fiscal stability law, the issue of settlements and indexation of pensions, and the possibility of abolishing the zero VAT rate for bread, milk and medicine, considers that, in addition to these two measures, the first ones in the law to introduce restrictions on the use of State budget funds in line with fiscal opportunities and which will stop the growth of pensions for two years, that these are measures which at the moment show not only the intention but also the willingness to introduce order into spending and in state finances and to reduce expenditure in the spending side of the state budget, while not going in the direction of impact on the most sensitive social groups, because this freezing, as fellow Sobol suggests and we discussed on the Committee we could safely defuse our pensions, the fact that we would be free of our human rights. However, if this were still to be done with the measure of abolishing the zero VAT rate for bread, milk and medicine, it is certain that we could not avoid rising prices for these products, and this would be an even greater blow to the standard of people who actually have a minimum of living, which means bread and milk. In other words, as far as the SDSS club is concerned, there are conditions for us to support this budget, but we would like to say one thing. We would like to say that if the next quarterly period does not begin to create and take measures to strengthen the revenue side of the budget, in which case it is a question of whether we will be able to endure with this planned budget even with assumptions. Our opinion, and in its opening statement, the Prime Minister insisted on this on several occasions, is that investment should be ensured. But we would also be free in this House and colleagues and colleagues on the one hand and on the other, on the left and on the right, to say that the search for investment abroad is not the only solution for Croatia, and we are not sure that it should be your only solution. And here there are and here there are investors who would be willing to invest their money because they are already in Croatia. I'll give you one example. The railroads were often spoken of in this House. Some of the colleagues who are much more informed about this than I have often had about it have had strong and good discussions, but I do not want to talk about the railways themselves but about the production of locomotives. Croatia was one of the manufacturers of locomotives in the Yugoslav area. Today, unfortunately, Croatia's capacities in this respect are very modest, and the needs for reconstruction of railways, rolling stock and in Croatia and in the entire area of the former state are enormous. My question is why our domestic producers would not be able to come across and find partners with which they could increase competitiveness and production capacity in this area and at the same time expand the range of products. Why is it that Končar and some major partners from significant European countries that were called here this morning could not create a partnership that would enable him to compete and in fact in the area of the former Yugoslavia and has no competitiveness but has only a market already over. Competitors can be from France or Spain, but not from this space. Is there anything the government should do in this sense that those who do not see it can be helped to see it? My opinion is yes, Madam President. Here are the mentions of the bank as we mentioned earlier. We're not asking banks to put money into the state budget so we can spend it on salaries, pensions or I don't know what else. We think it is fair to reinvest this money with such high bank profits under much more favourable conditions in economic recovery, in the growth of the economy in Croatia and that the state is obliged to show them how to do so and make a necessary arrangement and necessary agreement with them. And if this is done, if it goes that way, I believe this budget can last longer than it looks right now. But if it doesn't, I'm afraid that already after the first quarter we'll have problems with how to realise this budget. Therefore, my opinion is not the right subject today of this budget, nor its structure except for certain details that could certainly be spoken of. The right subject is the measures to be followed and to be followed, in particular economic development measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63008	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63009	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. If it's a policy, then it's a clear budget. In the budget as well as this for 2011, it is understandable that all the policies from the subsidies for agriculture to the abandonment of shipbuilding subsidies are zero kuna for them. The budget shows which was and what would be the policy of borrowing to the level of pension or pension from what and where to invest. Clearly where HDZ is in power we heard come and the Shodolovites, so where their partners are and politics is God we and this budget adoption team. I've never said that before from a place in 16 or the last 17 years that I've been monitoring the budget has not been adopted so early, so in November. It has never been adopted in a way that Internet positions could be read on Monday, but discussed on Tuesday. That we discussed on boards before it was included in the budget agenda for 2011. It's really never happened before. And why is this happening, gentlemen, and I'm going to say once again that the budget is a understandable policy, and I don't think I'm wrong. Because of fear, I don't know of one member or one member of the HDZ, which I don't know of the former or present, what they will do, but if you gentlemen panic over one member, then you gentlemen in the HDZ don't trust yourself either. And it would be normal for the government to be nervous about, say, economic collapse, about uncertainty, not whether they will have or will not have a parliamentary majority the next day. I know that the government is going to try to hang out and I don't know if the event is going to get some political favor. The Pope is coming to us. Now we hear that a referendum on Europe should take place a month or two days before the elections. Don't do this, gentlemen in the government. Let's save that 70, 80 million kuna. I know it might raise a little ratings, but otherwise it's not good. And we better try to help those who need that money. However, where is Croatia today? Where it will be tomorrow in a year or more accurate, and to quote this as the governor of the European Central Bank I'm literally quoting it says your country is falling right into disaster. We should not have ordered the head of the European Bank, the European Central Bank, through Rohatinski that Croatia is falling into disaster. We've known that for three, four years. Sanader knew that, too, so he left the government with probably the pressure on the outside I don't know about corruption. Although I blame him most for corruption for leaving behind a team you can't even force to vote. And that's exactly what you gentlemen should say. It insists on laughing or not at the authorities Now, that's a tragedy. [[Take it easy. Hold on to your colleague, Comrade Cain, choose the words of your colleague Cain and the expressions.]] It's a mockery of the nation, Mr. Vice President. It's politics... And don't count gentlemen like America on that phenomenon I don't know Obama that the nation will turn against the new government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder Shakespeare: Don't mess with the villas because the villas have two ends. Go on.]] But the new power I think can be fought for two mandates. What's the greatest sin I'm going to tell these authorities? First of all, the government is without legitimacy and this "keeps water until the masters leave" policy is almost a policy that pushes the country into an ambis. Can this government run Croatia? God willing, but I can't believe it. Will someone and so much has been said, Czech Republic, especially about foreign investments or domestics, come to invest under this government? He won't. This government will also have to be borrowed this year. Not to the government, but to the country, all of us 24 billion kuna. It's for the budget. With outside budget funds, that's 35 billion kuna. Will we be able to borrow loans under this intensity in 2012, 2013? We won't, hardly. In 2010, we borrowed 34 billion kuna for budget purposes this year. According to the Rohatin Governor of the CNB, plus another 11 billion kuna or 45 billion means for the functioning of the budget and outside the budget state. That's almost $9 billion this year. Almost as much as it's going to be in 2011. What did you tell them to replicate me, but good. There, there will be so many gentlemen and in 2011. But how many more gentlemen can be borrowed at 8, 9, or I don't know how many billions of kunas. It's not kuna, it's dollars. Two years, tops. Yes, gentlemen, three. The road to hell would've told Dante good intentions, and we're on our way to hell. But the intentions of those behind this budget are bad. And absolutely everyone in this government loves Croatia is gone, but I see they love even more power. And the point of this budget is that obviously the collapse of that future government, because it's going to have to be cut, so maybe in two or three years before the election deadline, this team comes back to power again. Mr. Shucker keeps saying who to cut, who to cut? Exactly who. To begin with, let the thieves return what they have taken, but today it is better to cut perhaps five, six percent than tomorrow fifteen or twenty percent so that they can normally service their obligations because it will be a disaster for all but thieves. That's the point. And that's why I say that this trip to hell is paved here in these places with bad intentions. How many jobs have we lost from August 2009 to August 2010? 102000. And what jobs? In industry, in catering, in crafts, in crafts, in trade, in journalism, etc. Unemployment has increased by 50 to 60 thousand people, and what does it look like? Nothing. And this is the road to the disaster mentioned by the governor of the European Central Bank, in which Mr Rohatinski conveys his message to us. Just one intention, I'd say from this, could be worse, and that's what tycoons think for two or three years to come to power. In 2011, God forbid she's wrong, God forbid, but Croatia will not have a positive growth rate. He won't. Not at 330, 340 thousand, Madam President, can't have positive growth rates. That's right. We can fool ourselves. He won't. He won't. But God forbid we have one and a half percent. Let's release 13% or one billion euros. Okay. Praise is worth it, but this is the result of the recovery of European markets. Our imports are down by 4.5%, and VAT revenues from customs are clearly decreasing. What's going to happen to the shipbuilding that's ahead of its exhale? If Croatia doesn't call the IMF, and God forbid it does, and we'll see if Croatia will be foreign exchange liquid there sometime in the middle of the year, when it will need to secure 10 billion euros, clearly on the country's waste something below 2 billion euros, it will be done a year or two later. Gentlemen must ensure foreign exchange. We were ahead of such a situation, according to Governor Rohatinski, in the middle of this year, when he himself said he had thought about calling the IMF because it threatened the inability of orderly service and import and external debt. If we don't lower public spending, and that may mean wages, our wages, etc., today 2011, say 5%, in two billion kunas, maybe in a year, the salaries will have to be corrected and 10 or 15% of everyone down there. And God forbid I'm just wrong, but I think I'm gonna go back as far as I'm concerned, Nostradamus, for where do jobs get lost? In tourism, in trade, in crafts, in agriculture, in crafts, in textiles, I don't know industry, and so in a year 101 thousand 824. That's what the IMF say is the introduction to disaster. And I'm saying, and even that I'll dare say, that the situation is, among other things, guilty and the CNB because of its firm kuna policy, which has dimmed both investment and the export industry and I'm not saying anything else. And what we're doing at this point with this budget, it's worse than corruption, because it's simply something that's going to need to be solved I don't know what cuts in the coming years. When the country was destroyed, for the purposes of the 2007 elections, the 2006 budget of 97 billion kuna, 2007. 111 billion kuna, from 2009 until now we remain on those 122, 123 billion kuna, with a minus 10% growth in gross social product at the moment. We're living ino accumulation. I'll say once again, gentlemen, 45 billion kuna we borrowed this year, that's $9 billion for central government funding and out-of- budget funds. Today we spend 25 billion more than in 2006, the gross product is 10% smaller than in 2008, the story of investment 14 billion, 100 billion kuna in this year or not, but it just can't stand. Well, nobody's gonna invest first, but to get you to any investment, you need two or three years to work on it. Oh, God damn it, that 100 billion would happen, because that would only be based on the VAT of 23% in the state budget. That's about how much weight I don't know right now exactly how many thousands in the public sector it takes this year to pay. And that's where we're going to have to get a message on the trail and what Chehok was saying to everyone that simple investments should be allowed. In one word, I fear that we have a few years left to break, and that is why we need the same sooner, the sooner we are in the European Union, not for someone to draw us out as Greece, but for some capital from Europe and therefore to work, but I am also not sure that we will conclude these negotiations with this government in this year 2011. We'll see, I'd love to, I'm not sure. And now, too, let's not fool the nation, and I don't know how it's gonna get any better over the night next year. For agriculture, let it go 3 and a half billion kuna, for the shipbuilding of zero kunas. Well, I'm coming from Istria, the Oilman thank God he's doing a good job. Last year, 500 million kunas went for them. Does that mean the key to shipbuilding? On the other hand, yes, 10 billion kunas of guarantees can be charged for that same shipbuilding, and I want to believe that this will sort of roll, roll, or prolong. Finally, I found an article here, I can't believe Sanader's associates, and the State Secretary was handing out money for parallel wages. So what is it? Was that some kind of parallel state? State within the state. Everything was virtual, if that's true, and let's not just act like it. In 2011, there will be a year until sobering, and in 2012, I'm afraid when it will be corrected and paid, and perhaps something else, one big, big year of sobering thanks to this budget policy, gentlemen MPs, as you throw here. I agree, this country needs optimism, for investments like Pupovac and the people who can invest here, and mostly small people, to get money out of the nerds or mattresses, anyway. Strawberries, or mattresses. Don't yell at me, because you're not wise men, you're squires, if you're gonna throw me away and insult me. And I know that no one is comfortable listening when, in power, messages and these kind of things are being sent, but all in all I'm afraid is that what seems to be not good and that it is not perspective and that the consequences of this budget, as well as the budget, of the last few budgets, will have to be borne by an entire one generation. You're saying you don't need a referendum, and you're supposed to go to Europe. [[Agreement: Cancelling correction, this is incorrectible.]] And how are we going to Europe without a referendum? ... The intruder doesn't understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand. Okay, don't no Nostradamus will...]] You can hang that cat on your tail. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63010	Mr. Representative Josip Friščić, Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63011	Mr Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents, Ministers, Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Surely this debate, the whole preparation of the budget as one of the most important, can even say the most important operating document for operation, was about state, county, city or municipality, meaning one area, certainly flows and flows into a different atmosphere. And so we can say rightly, as if we're looking at the same indicators with different glasses. But what the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance said were numbers. The numbers speak, they order and certainly need to be concentrated around them and our debate will actually go that way. But before that, allow me a few more words just as I started the debate, about the atmosphere, because however some point out that it was too short to discuss the budget, so we actually started the budgetary debate the moment we opened the budget rebalancing debate, when we talked about spending projections for 2010, we did an analysis and what is important on the government's proposal, but also set limits for the government to make budgets. It's neither simple nor easy because we've given them certain things that they can't change, which is that they don't change the tax legislation where they'd be further touched and put their hand into citizens' pockets. On the other hand, we have decided to abolish some of their safe income by abolishing the Crisis Tax Act at first and second rates. It is certain that with the budget, we can benefit from the opinions of others. We can use the messages too, because some of them say the IMF is a necessity, some of them speak without them is a catastrophic state. So we had this condition, and we saw how we came out of it, and what messages there were. Well, we don't need to be told that we need to save, that we need to bring spending into possible frameworks, but that there is also a need to preserve social peace because it is a presumption of what we want and the development of the economy and the functioning of society as a whole. In the preparation of this budget, my coalition partners, as well as the Croatian public, discussed whether and how to create conditions for new tax revenues. After real judgments, we agreed, through this budget, that although the tax reform follows us, although we have made certain commitments to align certain tax concerns especially with VAT and to abolish the zero rate, but not to be now, not to be through this budget, not to be in this financial year. The same way we've considered those suggestions about property taxes. Tax workers are particularly monitored by the financing of local self-government in EU countries, and they know very well that most of their incomes are just making property revenues. But, and we have to be serious, we have to make an asset cadastre, and only then create conjectures for thinking about where to take it, what steps not to do us any more harm than good, to take it where it's impossible to endure, and to put certain groups of our citizens in a situation of inability to function. What is also a characteristic, to read from this budget, which is that a lot of the account is kept, a lot discussed in which way in the given limit and with these certain things follow at the same level, and for certain expenditures and for certain needs better say and increase expenditure. So no indexation was made, so let's all go so much lower, less than anything has to be treated equally. For example, I'm just saying, here, the debate has already highlighted what the role and importance of tourism is, and it would certainly be difficult for people in this activity and the general public to say that this activity, which is close to a quarter or creates close to a quarter of a social product if they were to reduce resources, if they were to prevent them from designing new programmes, new incentive measures so that they could expect further accelerated growth. I believe it gives the Minister wind in the back for new programs, and also the perspective for all of us in assessing even better and greater successes when it comes to this so important branch. What has also been mentioned, and we in the HSS have been particularly considering, and this is a question of the achievement of the promotional measures in the area of food production. They follow further reached levels. I think it's very important, that it's very important, that it's a good message. Because at this level, our negotiators have successfully negotiated with the EU unlike many of the bills we are still waiting for to be delivered, we have as much envelope as we can expect from the EU budget tomorrow, and it is certainly good that in this budget we are exactly following and dissuading what we have convinced others that it is necessary for this area to be competitive. That's the approach we support, and that's one of the arguments that makes me support this budget and this kind of budget approach. There is another area I see that some have read, this year the budget is in a different way structured in certain segments, so you should look at what is in the position of the budget and what is in the individual agency where the powers and competences are transferred, for example, small and medium entrepreneurship because when reading only that position then you see this reduction. But when you take HAMAG where it was just re-scheduled to monitor the programme, you see that it is at a level of 327 million that it is even more than it was secured in 2010 for those purposes, and that is again a contribution because we know that it helps develop crafts, small entrepreneurship, entrepreneurial zones, that it is then that it is a contribution to even development or investment in areas that are lagging behind. A number of discussions have raised questions about the timing of the budget. What we had in the early years, I was mayor for years, there are other colleagues who were, many of you were mayors, mayors, and you know very well what it means to bring the budgets of local and regional self-government unless the state budget was passed. This is actually the right way, Europe is not accidentally planning not to be 4 years old, they're making their budget until 2019, so everyone knows what they can expect from some position, because I'm saying that by making a budget from this position, I'm not going to say to you in a few hundred local budgets, but in the first quarter of next year, because people have been planning one, and then we can track them through funds, which through agencies, which directly from budget items for other purposes, they have to co-finance somewhere, so they have to secure their component, and I think it's very important and therefore we at HSS support that the end of the 11th month is actually the time when the state budget is due for the next year with a good projection, solid projection and good calculations for the next two-year period because it's going to be able to be able to achieve it, and it's announced for us to be able to achieve it next week's real. What this budget also says, if we read it and where I have been, I have to say a skeptic whether it will succeed, and where everyone who has worked has to give up recognition, it is a situation where under the mandates... should have created funds for new commitments, because even in previous rebalancing we talked about saving, care about every kuna, etc., now another 2 billion has been redeployed for purposes from referendums, election costs, to the fulfillment of what we're talking about, which is why the world is being followed by us, because it's safe for us to talk here, regardless of the opposition or the authorities, whether we need to defend 4 million kuna additionally, we would say there is a need and somewhere else. That's our obligation, that's what we've accepted, that's what we've committed ourselves to, and that's what we have to do, and that's how we behave today, and that's how many of us appreciate it, and that's how we're going to behave tomorrow and what kind of message we're sending. And what is important is 2 billion to meet the components of the domestic and finalisation of this process until the entry into the European Union are also very important funds, I believe that these investments will come into being on the trail and create conditions for attracting additional funds and using funds. But with this budget, I'm going to end up, especially looking forward to it, that today the Prime Minister pointed out what is not directly written in the budget, which is not part of the budget, but is part of the daily budget, what we want it is, it's investments, it's a billion investment in municipal infrastructures that are prepared and need to go into realisation these days as far as I know it. We who have been involved in investment, half the material, half the hand, means 500 million hands, is a direct 10 thousand jobs that we guarantee in low-building that the next year will have to deal with the implementation of three programmes, and there are other programs that are said here that within the government will issue special solutions and concerns for their realization, and we welcome it both as a government and as president you have full support, and in this way we all together create a different atmosphere than what some want to say, because that the situation really should not go to America and sell anything, because in the words of some colleagues this country should no longer be given, nothing invested, the question is whether the picture should come as it is, unfortunately, theirs, but unfortunately, it is not, and therefore, the HSS will adopt this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63012	Thank you. Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63013	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. Since at the end of the debate on behalf of the Clubs, I want to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for speaking on behalf of the clubs so far, for making their remarks, my vision Budget 2011. In conclusion, I would like to say a few more words to appeal and call because tomorrow is a long debate, 88 MPs have been reported or slightly less, but certainly there will be a long day in which there will certainly be a lot of debate. I'd like it to be a fact debate and I'm still repeating it. I, if I may call and if I may appeal on behalf of all ministers and ministers in the government that this debate is indeed correct in the sense that it is talking about what it is today, but also to speak of what was yesterday without any intention of anyone accusing anyone of anything. When I say that, because you've talked a lot more about the deficit than 4.3% that we're predicting for next year, I've already mentioned in the opening statement, I'm going to mention here at the end. So, at the end of 2003, I repeat this only to appeal to the discussion of the facts, because today we are talking about the present but about the future of Croatia, our common homeland, whether we are left or right, from above or below, it is our only country and our only task to you who are in this House, us who are in the Government, is to make sure that we are in political life better tomorrow. If we are going through a deep and difficult crisis, it is our job to take care of it and make every effort to make it better tomorrow. So I'm just going to mention the facts simply because it might be easier to compare. If by the end of 2003 the deficit was I said 5.3 was 5.4%, it should be taken into account the fact that from 2000 to 2003 total was more than 43 billion kuna. But it should be taken into account when it comes to borrowing that much has been sold during that period. So I'm just saying that as a fact without any intention of insinuating anything else. Therefore, it should be taken into account that 16% of HT sold in 2001 for 500m euros. Likewise, the Rijeka Bank, etc. until 2003. 25% plus one INA stock for 505 million dollars or more than three billion kunas financed by the deficit. So this should be taken into account when we talk and when we talk about both borrowing and what this government is doing. So, it's a huge money that's certainly welcome and despite all that, I repeat, the deficit was what it was sold to about 17% of Pliva, to cover the health debt recovery costs. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm saying this for the sake of the debate being justified. Yes, Madam MPs, however the facts may seem rude when viewed from the left, they are simply facts and no one can and will change them. As for the note that, I beg you not to yell at me, it was a shame on you. It's really not appropriate, but it's an honor. ... And despite all this, I'm gonna talk and you're absolutely not gonna threaten me to get off the phone and talk finally about the budget debate. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Yes, ma'am, it's your right to be polite or act in some other way. So, as mentioned, the SDP proposed a fiscal responsibility law. That's not true. The SDP proposed a Law on payment deadlines for state and public enterprises. Therefore, by keeping an account, and I absolutely welcome that, of course, state and public enterprises are liquid and we have not made order and state-owned or public-owned enterprises pay within 60 days. Here, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate. I thank you for everything you've said. Each of us carries his share of the burden of responsibility and I invite you to give your vote for the 2011 budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63014	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. individual debate. It's Mr. Representative Goran Maric's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63015	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue with the work, the agenda point of the budget. We have completed the debate by the clubs and as an individual debate is now being announced. The first is Mr. Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63016	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored members of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. All the budgets so far carried historical burdens, reconstruction and war damage burdens, recovery burdens and the real and financial sector, burdens of paying off old foreign exchange savings, burdens of payouts based on the London and Paris club, unemployment burdens, burdens of forced retirement, burdens of various reforms more unsuccessful than successful, burdens of an absolutely unacceptable model in the behaviour of management of the achieved surplus after the introduction of the VAT when billions of kunas were thrown into ruin, into the abyss, and most of that money ended up in the wrong place. So far, the budgets carried within themselves and the burden of the consequences of conversion and privatisation, selling out the most valuable Croatian wealth, but also giving away the most valuable financial institutions without compensation to an individual. This draft budget also suffers the consequences of these burdens, but also the consequences of bankruptcy, the consequences of deindustrialisation and the insufficient economic potential of the Republic of Croatia. One of the most important indicators, which have almost been ignored in the debate, is an analysis of the share of the total expenditure of the state budget in the gross domestic product, so I would just point out that the indicator has moved from 2000 to today. In 2000, that stake was 28% to culminate in 2003 to 35.5%, then dropped to 32% in 2005, and today it is again at 2003 level to 35.7%. It is obvious that the expenditure of the state budget was growing faster than gross domestic product and that the current methodology of budgeting had not provided sufficient care for the fact. But this draft budget together with the 2012 and 2013 projections and the Financial Responsibility Act makes the first serious step and step towards the process of consolidation of public finances, but this is also the beginning of the necessary consolidation process in the medium term. It is important to achieve simultaneously and activate all possible potentials, economic instruments and unused economic potentials in order to increase economic activity and employment. The Croatian budget is not about the directory but about the denominator, the problem is about the decline in GDP that we need to raise. This draft budget has protected man, and economic policy is not politics unless it protects man. He retains all social rights, retains salaries and pensions, and cutting salaries and pensions is not a solution, an economic solution in recession, on the contrary. As it should be done in recession, it has long been said in my opinion by the greatest economist of all time John Maynard Keynes, with three instruments: cheap money policy, mild inflation up to 3% and proportionate or progressive taxation. We of these three elements have one, mild inflation to 3%, which is positive because it is planned over the next 2.1%. But it is important to understand that economic policy can no longer be led in the future only by freezing fiscal expenditures, but also by a responsible monetary policy because the current structure of credit ratings goes to the benefit of consumption and not to the benefit of production. The economic paradox of credit policy is that the current liquidity of the banking sector exceeds the usual economic activity, and the economic deficit is that the cash surplus, today as much as 4 billion, ends in the central bank account and the economic paradox is that our monetary multiplier is less than 1. It is therefore a real shame that we have not heard from anyone yet from anyone a criticism or suggestion that contains at least two macroeconomic variables that are mutually coordinated with the dependent GDP variable. Many, also called and uninvited, only said that this proposal is harmful and leads to failure, that expenditures are too high, but no one has yet said what should be done to make GDP and employment at least rise by 1%. In the absence of real and professional analysis, and we have listened to public or political or analytical analysis, so I would personally like to refer to the specific possibilities of small savings on the spending side and to increase the revenues of the state budget, but without shock therapy because they have a harmful impact on the economy, but also without additional burden on the economy because the economy is too burdened anyway, it needs to be phased out. Well, in order to do that, one little suggestion, in order to dissipate the economy, is to change Article 6. The audit law, which obliges all those who have an income of more than 30 million kuna to undergo an audit, and this audit is of little use to them, so if someone economically assesses that they need to be ordered, but that it is not prescribed by law but only for those companies that are listed on the market. Can you reduce which position is expendable? For example, we can not give incentives to imports because it has no positive effect on the Croatian economy. It can also do so before reducing the reserve rate of the Central People's Bank and agree with the business banks the conditions under which the state will borrow money from banks, not after the banks get blackmailed and the interest rate is certainly 1 or 2% higher than it would have been if they had agreed before. A few suggestions for the revenue side, but it is necessary to carry out rationalisation at all possible levels and at least shut down the holes. Because little holes sink the ship. And suggestions for the revenue side. So first, the profits of state-owned companies should be directed to the state budget, if that profit is not used for development and investment. Out of the billions of kunas earned in state-owned enterprises, no kuna has ended up in the state budget and it is not logical for Croatia, for example, to keep the profits achieved in the deposit in a business bank and not pay the profits in the budget. The plan of profit companies in the following periods should be more positive, should be greater because the potential is certainly higher and certainly in 2011 can be achieved profit in state-owned enterprises and should be a plan of billions and 500 million kuna, and in the next little more. Because I have not yet experienced a case where someone resigned or resigned as head of the administration or member of the board of directors in a state-owned company because they cannot achieve the results and business plans set up. And no matter how much we deal with losses or make some profits for years, they're always the same and no one's ever said he's having a hard time with that company. I would also recommend the activation of the total state property and put it into economic function. I would also recommend introducing a differentiated profit tax rate, as Keynes said, and for companies that are doing business or, together with related societies, more than 50 million kunas per year, the income tax rate in my opinion could be 30%, and not 20%, and thus certainly, by analysing the overall profit achieved in the past 10 years, which has been 260 million kunas of net profits, or 35 billion euros per that criterion, and that no one actually has a negative impact on economic activity, we could certainly have 2 billion kunas on profits more achieved. We don't need new property taxes or assets, because they affect the economy then. But new taxes on profits certainly do. It should be prescribed that no one can pay the advances or profits without undermining all of his obligations both to the state and to suppliers. The luxury tax needs to be changed. So is it a luxury to buy a girl an earring for 50 euros or a wedding ring when a woman is paid 200 euros? And isn't it a luxury when someone pays a 10,000-euro item and something else? And that's where we need to look for solutions. Time. Only then would I say it is still very important to abolish the limitation on the payment of contributions now of 5 years, absolute 10, because this would improve the revenues of the state budget, and also to tax the property of non-functioning companies and to tax illegally built buildings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63017	It's Mr. Representative Frano Matušić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63018	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'll first of all point out that this budget is a real budget, that it's not a pre-election budget and of course it's a budget that has character, and not like that some try to portray it as a budget without character. This draft budget shows that, unlike many countries, the Republic of Croatia is in its environment and the European Union itself, which is a member of the EU alone, can function without the assistance of the IMF and without any help from the European Parliament's budget, the European Union. In fact, many Member States are in spite of the disbursements, despite the signing of a stand by arrangement with the IMF, remain in an extremely difficult crisis. The annex is also said by the gentleman's statements... which, two days ago, cried out that it was the European Union itself, that it was a euro area because of the crisis in the Member States and because of the crisis in Ireland which is indeed huge and because of the crisis in Portugal, because of the possible crisis in Spain, not to mention that crisis in Greece. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basic provision, i.e. the decision defining the 2011 budget, was made when amending and supplementing the 2010 budget when we voted, so the ruling coalition, the majority in this House voted that expenditure for the next year 2011 must be frozen at both the level and the amounts for 2010. So, in the amount of $122.2 billion. However, they are actually reduced by slightly more than 2 billion kuna because we have completely new expenditure planned in the following year, and they are also related to Croatia's accession to the European Union, which means that this budget, which this year is 122.2 billion kuna, is essentially an additional one for these two billion kunas to which new expenditures are concerned in 2011. The second fundamental assumption for the production and adoption of this budget is also the forecasting and assumption that GDP growth in 2011 will be 1.5%, which means that certain expenditures, revenues at 107.4 billion kuna and thus the deficit is set at 14.9 billion kuna or 4.3% of GDP. I want little to demystify this part of both deficits and revenues, because the specific deficit of the state budget that was planned at 4.3% is small in percentage than it was in 2003 when it was 5.4%. And in concrete amounts, it was nearly $13 billion, and today it's 14.9 billion. So it's not exactly a difference, and the fact is that we didn't have an economic crisis at the time, that there wasn't such an economic environment, but that there was certainly an economy in both Europe and Croatia on the take-off. Therefore, there was no reason for such great deficits. However, what the SDP offered those years to cover the deficit. How did he cover the SDP deficit between 2000 and 2003? By selling family silver. He covered the deficit by selling, say, T-HT for 500m euros. He covered the SDP deficit by selling Rijeka Bank for 55m euros; by selling PBZ for 140m euros, so he covered the SDP deficit. By selling the Split Bank for 37m euros or by selling INA 25% plus one share for 505m euros. That's how the deficit was covered during the SDP, selling family silver. Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's government has not sold any shares. Or to specifically say what they said themselves, the Pliva was sold for debt recovery in health care. Pliva, one of the most prospective pharmaceutical companies not in Europe but in the world, has been sold to settle healthcare debts. It's SDP policy, it's SDP policy. Selling family silver to cover the government budget deficit. Here, that's clear. And it's pretty clear to us yesterday when we listened to Mr. Greek, we couldn't really figure out what he would have done in the budget, what reforms he would have carried out, to whom he would have cut the expenditure. Whether to cut pensions, to cut wages, to cut social benefits, to cut birth benefits. All what they did in their term of office from 2000 to 2003 And the fact is that in that term when there was no economic crisis that they called the IMF because they were unable to solve problems alone in Croatia and this IMF, under pressure from the IMF, they reduced wages 30, 40%, they broke off collective agreements unilaterally, completely without agreement with the social partners, without agreement with the unions, and ultimately the debts created by the break-up of collective agreements of several billion kunas had to repay those HDZ authorities that came in late 2003. Based on court decisions, of course. Furthermore, it is incorrect and false, as counterpart Milanovic said he himself had proposed the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. It is not true, he did not propose a fiscal liability law, he or they, so the SDP proposed a reduction in the liquidity of public enterprises, a law on reducing the liquidity of public enterprises. It's something else entirely. However, the government was able to achieve by insisting on the deadlines that public companies have reduced their debts completely, as is the case. HEP, which had a billion and 800 million kuna, is today, operating with a profit of 800 million kuna and is quite certain to pay everything within the deadlines as well as HAC and HC. The moment the INA settled its debt to them, they too were regular and regular in accordance with the law paying off all their obligations. As for the financing of the infrastructure through the deficit of the state budget, I think that's what Pusic said, and it should be said specifically that at that time when highways were being built, unfortunately there is no colleague, at the time the highways were being built did not involve Croatian companies, such as Željezara Split. So today we have the fact that people in Željezara Split point very clearly to the finger and say who is responsible for the collapse of the hardware store. At that time, iron was purchased from other countries at other prices. It was not intended to help domestic producers, it was not intended to help domestic companies. And in particular, they directly blame it on Minister Cacic, who was then head of the ministry. So, people at the Zeljezari Split. We did not really hear any proposal from either the SDP or other opposition parties to cut budget expenditure, how to even better balance it. However, the fact is that we are witnessing that the government itself with its own forces without any support from the IMF, without any support from the European budget manages to balance the situation and therefore we can specifically say that in the last quarter there will be economic growth in the plus and next year will be in the plus. Which means leaving the recession because if the World Bank tells you and you that we will have 1.5% growth next year then it is clear that Croatia exited the recession next year. That's quite clear information. However, here is very often mantra appears in the media, last night I listen to an analyst of a bank who is certainly in conflict of interest when he talks about it, but we leave it to the media, but we listen to the mantra about countries in an environment that have better economic growth than Croatia and which succeed before Croatia get out of recession. What are these countries in the environment? Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is incomparable to Croatia, is simply incomparable to its economy. Serbia also, look at their GDP, look at their average salaries, see how it is arranged. What countries are these? Montenegro? Also incomparable with Croatia. Hungary? In debt to the throat. Which country? Romania, Bulgaria? What countries are these? Slovenia that has a 7.8% deficit? Who has an external debt greater than Croatia? Tell me what countries are in the environment? There's talk of countries in the environment coming out faster. That's just not true. Croatia stands better today than Portugal and Ireland and Spain and some other EU countries, not to speak these countries that I have already listed. Therefore, it is quite clear that Croatia will succeed in exiting the recession with its own forces thanks to this government, the government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, and that it will certainly come out of the recession next year which is before us to mean in this sense and entry, the conclusion of negotiations with the EU which will be an additional incentive and economy for the Republic of Croatia and for all of us. And I'm sure, here's how next year's gonna be more optimistic, I can say it freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63019	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63020	Thank you very much, esteemed President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Well, the adoption of a state budget is proof of the stability of each government, and especially ours in view of the various political-media plantings that have been trying to destabilize this government lately, headed by Mrs. Kosor. The expenditure of the state budget in 2011, but also in 2012 and 2013, as we know, will remain somewhere at the same level of cca 122 billion kuna, and the deficit of the state budget is planned to drop dramatically from 4.3% to 1.7% in 2013. Is this not sufficient to guarantee that state spending will not increase and that the rationalisation of the public sector will continue? The government budget deficit for 2011 will be 4.3% of gross social product, around 14.8 billion kuna. Such a deficit will be at some level in 2002 when it was 4.2%, and the difference is that in 2003 it rose to 5.3% of GDP, i.e. It means it's been spent more than we've had real opportunities. The decline in deficits will be the result of freezing unreal consumption, and that will be a rationalisation by this government, and it should be stressed that the government has reduced state spending over 6 billion kuna over the last two years, so I think we need to believe it will continue to rationalise state spending. Supporting the economic recovery programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as the freezing of budgetary expenditures over the next two years was also given by the IMF Head of Mission who was recently in Croatia, which I do not know has not been accepted in opposition with some enthusiasm. Croatia has a smaller deficit in the state budget compared to the countries in the environment, and this should be stressed. For example. Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic have a deficit of 6% of gross social product, a Baltic country somewhere over 8%, that I'm not talking about Ireland, which until yesterday we called an economic miracle that, in fact, its deficit goes anywhere even 30%. The spending side of the 122.3 billion kuna, close to 90 billion kuna, is costing salaries, pensions and social benefits. And that's the truth we really need to talk about, and unfortunately that's the way it is. The government, regardless of how certain opposition politicians, economists, and journalists who often write in the media should reduce wages, pensions, to cut social benefits, to fire 25,000 public sector employees, apparently that the government does not inherit such sentiments, has proved responsible for the current social moment at which it is aware that citizens are hard to live, to fight to barely bring an end to the end. The government does not create false illusions about the economic and social situation in the country in this election year, but does not want to forcefully cut social rights, wages, pensions, as the SDP did when it was on hair, which is what my colleague was talking about before me. Part of the opposition is more important when it comes to power than how citizens will live, and therefore they ask the government not to have mercy on employees, pensioners and their salaries and pensions. Surely if they came to power, they would do what they had already done, cut salaries, cut pensions, reduce other material rights that they had already done in 2000. The International Monetary Fund in Croatia is nothing more than an attempt to hit citizens' standards, their salaries and social incomes, but those who call on the International Monetary Fund in Croatia do not have the guts to say this publicly, as they also do not say which social group should be taken, reduced, but obviously they need the IMF as an alibi to have an excuse for citizens. The government of the Republic of Croatia, despite the maximum savings of public spending, will continue to successfully finance all public obligations, and in particular salaries, pensions, as well as other social rights. And that's why they don't have to be afraid of citizens, and let's not seriously take these delusions that spread from the opposition's circles. The government successfully implements the economic recovery programme, and the first effects themselves, the first effects were assured by representatives of the mission of the International Monetary Fund, who gave full support to the implementation of such an economic recovery programme. Since the second half of 2010, Croatia has been on the road to recovery from the financial crisis and will see growing economic growth as of 2013. It's for all praise. For every commendation is that Croatia has more and more quality top managers and entrepreneurs recruited from successful Croatian companies, such as this year from Agrokor and Techniks and exactly such persons, such people need Croatia, they are the sun from the east and more optimism for... side of the business climate in Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] So I congratulate both Mrs. Puljic and Mr. Horvat on the Crom award for the manager of the year. Regardless of the footing of the government and this budget are the result of the government's economic recovery programme, which has a clear objective of economic recovery and development, the fight against corruption and crime, and the conclusion of accession negotiations with the European Union. These goals would certainly be easier and faster if the opposition wanted the same, so that instead of throwing the plungers under the feet and hooking scares the citizens, they also call them locusts, etc., it would be better to contribute instead to some implementation of this economic recovery programme. Whoever is against this budget is certainly against social stability in Croatia, I must say that it is against the pensioners, it is against the workers, but also against the increase in birth in Croatia, because they do not want to give birth to an age greater means, because apparently they still think that the offspring carry children for free, so that there is no need to give any means to give birth to it and that they do not, in principle, need it because they will all be born. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63021	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63022	Mr. Kunst, certainly our workers must fear not only for wages, but must and fear more and more for jobs. Of course I'm not in favour of a pay cut, here we have two vice presidents, their salary of 17 and a half, 18 thousand kuna, the president of 3,000 euros. Well, I don't think it's a lot of pay, even though I know it might sound like a heresy, so someone's going to call me. But we have a problem on the other hand, I agree with doctors being paid, teachers, officials, customs officers, cops, etc. But what's the point? In the private or this real sector in 2009-2010, there are 102,000 people left without a job, or to be more precise 101 thousand 824 people, 300 people are left without a job daily. Who's out of a job? This real sector, industry, textiles, trade, crafts, crafts, buildings, etc. In the public sector where 387 thousand of us work, no one has lost their job. And that's why maybe 5% down in that public sector today will be less painful than tomorrow when we go down 15%. And with a billion or 2 billion kuna if you could save 30,000 jobs in the real sector, you know that another year would create another 10,000 jobs and that would be 1% of the growth of a gross social product that will hardly happen next year when we will have 340 thousand unemployed in the 4th month. In the real sector when you have a dilemma 5 or 10% down, or preserve a job, everyone chooses this second, preserving a job in public understandably, so we are guilty of both opposition and position and unions etc. We have a revolution. What are the opportunities today in this real sector, the best known representatives whose families have 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9 workers. Being in their skin isn't that simple, and I'm saying that today, these people who are being mortgaged and made more victims than the public or any other sector. Therefore, normally no one normally advocates a wage reduction if it is possible to keep them at this level, but let's also look into the eyes and admit that 102 thousand people lost their jobs in the real sector in a year, people who carry salaries and the public sector, in industry, in textiles, in trade, in tourism, in crafts, in crafts, in construction, etc. They're people who lose their jobs, they don't lose them elsewhere. And if we don't save this real sector, then we'll definitely destroy the public sector and that upgrade, and the state can't function without the upgrade.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63023	Answer Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63024	Thank you very much. My fellow Caine, I am pleased to hear from you your honesty that you advocate that wages be reduced in Croatia. And in principle, in the end, you proved it during that period when you were in the coalition with the SDP in power when it actually took place. I agree with you the problem is certainly great unemployment and it is the cancer of every country's wounds. But the fact is you can't argue that this financial crisis which has been a problem in Croatia for years and that this government has begun to solve it. And that's a fact. The fact is that Croatia is not an isolated island that has been bypassed by the recession and that Croatia has also been affected. And already indications that the growth of gross social product from year to year will be greater, that the entrepreneurial climate will improve is also optimistic that people will also be employed. We won't do anything if we cut off that poor woman's wages, pensions, take away their rights like the opposition would want for a reason because they think it would be the only right way out. I don't think there's anything normal about doing it in this country, and that's why this government has proven sensitive. But as well as fellow Cain, everyone at their local level needs to look for solutions to help their fellow citizens, how to help them work, get jobs, etc. I therefore did not say that the report said that the biggest corruption on Istria's territory was currently in Croatia, that your current authority would include all efforts to prevent and suppress corruption in the Istria area. And it will be safe and suppressing this corruption will be your contribution to effectively increasing jobs and the number of employees and making these citizens live better tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63025	Thank you. We've got one injury from Mr. Caine's businessman.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63026	Article 209 has been injured. What Mr. Kunst is saying is one of the simplest insolences. The more developed the environment, Mr. Kunst, that's less corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63027	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? What about the rules of procedure? What's the article of the Businessman?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63028	209.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63029	And what did he get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63030	So a man lies shamelessly, a set-up, and an insult. What else can I give him? Can I go on?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63031	He can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63032	He can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63033	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Qualifying something shameless, false, etc. is not a dictionary of the Croatian Parliament. Second, it must be said whether these terms rely on an article of the Rules of Procedure. That's basic. So, you hurt the Rules of Procedure, which you reported for injury to the Businessman. And now Mr. Kunst is reporting for a business injury, so we'll see if he hurts the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63034	This Regulation shall enter My colleague Cain insulted me and I only gave him the facts that were mentioned here in Parliament. I thought he was gonna do something smart, and he's got something silly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63035	You didn't see it anywhere because it's nowhere to be found, Mr. Kunst. If it's stolen somewhere and it's lying, it's this crew that runs this country today, that it's ruined. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63036	Those heavy words seem to be able to go one way, but when they go otherwise, tensions rise immediately. We move on and try not to stir this relatively peaceful debate up again. It's Mr. Representative Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63037	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's precisely in order for this tone of session to be constructive and peaceful, as you can see we're not responding to any of these I can freely say provocations, but I need two words before what I meant to say today. Firstly, for several months now, since the last rebalancing and this critical situation in the SDP budget has been clearly speaking out loudly, I repeat, "The last line of defence in the fiscal policy led by the SDP is the defence of pensions, the defence of salaries and the defence of social charges headed towards the most vulnerable groups." So, not all social benefits, but those that go towards the most vulnerable groups. Why am I stressing that? Because in our programme we have drawn up a reform of the social sector, the introduction of new criteria for the distribution of social transfers that would respect the clear income and available property of the family that these social support should receive. Secondly, an important question, please, for the sake of the public, I must say. We've never called the IMF, we don't call the IMF today, but we're afraid, and we've said that several times these days, we're afraid that this kind of fiscal policy, above all, that in the last two, two and a half years it's been going raddenly towards a critical stage in which the public debt could go through a famous 60% in the coming year, along with guarantees and with such a high deficit. So, this situation destabilizes public finances and endangers the objective possibility of serviceing all obligations, and I think it's even more dangerous and I pointed out here yesterday, which is a very large public debt price situation, and today we are paying it about 6.5 and 6.75% on the foreign market, though slightly less on the domestic market. That's what we're talking about. Thus, such a critical situation could put Croatia in a position to hardly respond to its obligations, and in this case it must seek the assistance of international institutions. The third thing, we and here were saying that we are not offering concrete solutions. What are we talking about, people? We offered at the SDP Convention only a month ago 15 key areas of action that should be an integral part of any economic policy in this country. More than 100 individual measures have been put in place. We said it wasn't the finale either, we're working on it, we're working especially on operating these measures, and some of them I'm going to mention today. However, we can't, I'm going to refer a little bit to my colleague Goran Maric, so we also made it clear yesterday what variables are important to us: budget, economic recovery and growth and fiscal consolidation, three variables that are very closely tied to each other. And we said, this budget, which is a copy of the 2010 budget with minimum corrections, actually cannot contribute to 2011 or economic growth, and the deficit and further growth of public debt cannot contribute to fiscal consolidation. Very clear. I won't go any further because I already told you yesterday. And now I'm moving on to that constructive, most constructive part of this discussion of mine, which is what the SDP offers as an alternative to this policy to economic policy, and especially fiscal politics, and there's really no dilemma there. We hold that first, we need to create assumptions about the tax discharge of the economy and the population. So far, a significant step has taken place in disbursement of the population by reducing income tax, but I warn that a hole has been created not in the state budget but in local budgets which have significantly burdened local self-government, and this problem has not yet been solved and this problem needs to be addressed by appropriate compensation. The spread of the economy must go in at least two directions. First is the tax exemption of the labour price. The tax burden on labour prices in Croatia is first in the world in size, first in the world. It was the other day in all the newspapers, so let's not respect that fact. I'll be quite precise. For the highest salary, we understand each other, for the highest salary of the highest tax burden. The average is something lower, but we have to start from the fact that the burden is terribly high and we're in favour of tax discharge. Each percentage of the tax charge would leave room for new investments by entrepreneurs of a billion and 300 million kuna. You'll all be wondering how you'll compensate for these funds in the budget. There are at least three ways. One is that at least two years ago, structural reforms have begun to reduce the costs of some of the most vulnerable today and least sustainable sectors such as pensions, health and social welfare. It's another thing. We about certain estimates in the gray economy sector actually have a tax ejaculation of nearly ten billion kuna. That's not my assessment, I'm using some information that was publicly circulating. Only 10% reduction in tax ejaculation is savings from a billion kuna, i.e. better said new revenue in the budget. I will very specifically highlight the areas that I think should be priority in the fight against the gray economy and tax evasion. It's hospitality, it's construction and it's the rental sector. Believe me, in these three sectors, in a very short time with respect to existing laws, so without the introduction of new legal solutions, a significant income can be provided to a state budget that measures at least more than 1 billion, but certainly far more than that. Third thing, where money can be found. It's a correction in the tax system. One of the important measures that we have proposed, and we repeat it all the time, and today we have heard it on the other side of the assembly which I am very pleased with, so not in exactly the same form, but very similar. Entrepreneurs should be freed or relieved for reinvested profits. Entrepreneurs should be encouraged that those capitals that have reinvested, not to be drawn from the company, to spend it in some luxurious consumption, at least in bricks, in some extra apartments, houses, villas and I don't know what, and I particularly think that there is a need for tax-penalizing capital to be extracted from the country because this capital that is derived from the country is not used by anyone in Croatia. Please, about that I think we should find me a consensus and take care of it once. So reward everyone who reinvests, penalize everyone who pulls capital out of the country. And that's something that's very important to this country. I'll just remind you, last year it came out of the country for my untrustworthy truths, but what we don't have and who aren't at the source of information available, somewhere from 3.5 billion kuna through dividends is paid outwards. So that's what I have, so just some dividend tax that worked in 2000 by the end of 2003 from about 10 or 15%, that's already about half a billion kuna in the budget more. You've penalized someone who took capital out of the country, that's what I'm talking about. Let's move on, we are for active employment measures, the truth is that today there is a developed system of active measures in Croatia. But the money available for these measures is symbolic. I wish in this budget I'd seen an increase in resources for active employment measures. We would go far more radically in this situation when unemployment is so expressed that these people get back to work, which is freeing entrepreneurs from paying contributions per year 100%, in the second year at least 50% for each new net employee. What's important, please, what's important for that doesn't need to provide 100% compensation in the budget, you don't need to. Because there's no clean bill on the pension account, and there's no clean bill on the health care bill. Because today we pay a huge part of the tax, not the contribution as well as the health care we finance from taxes, not contributions. Therefore, we must respect that part. One of the key things is to curb indifference. I'm asking you not to resolve indivisibility in public enterprises isn't enough, the state has to do much more to address the problem of charging its claims from all those companies that can't or can't do it today. But also in paying off liabilities in the opposite direction. We're in favour of capital projects. The capital part of the budget should be slowly raised in the coming years, not reduced. Look at the capital investment item in this budget, so the projection for twelve and thirteen shows the drop in these expenditures. Why? ... Okay. Here, thank you. [[The President's intrusion, he doesn't understand.]] And that's about what I wanted to say, and my colleagues will, of course, continue to contribute constructively to today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63038	Thank you. We have two replicas and two corrections. First replica, Mr. Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63039	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In his presentation, the esteemed colleague, Greekic, stressed the need for a continued policy of increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy against what we have today, which is, in fact, a constant tax burden on the decline of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, which, of course, has a causal relationship, which is an increase in unemployment. The fact is that the amount of capital from the country is also very much burdensome and therefore our proposal in Croatia is the right to introduce an uninvested profit tax. So that's what you're talking about. With a new tax burden of a different type for those entrepreneurs, the owners of capital actually tax them in such a way as to encourage that profit to return to the economy in the form of new investment investments and thus encourage the development of the economy. As for the same funds that are coming from the Republic of Croatia. One of these issues is the issue of funds from the pension system that go uncontrollably to Serbia where, unfortunately, we have no control system at all whether people who receive a regular pension in Croatia, who regularly sit in a jury account, are on a current bank account in general among the living. The assumption is that persons who actually receive pensions and are not among the living are moving between 10 and 30 thousand. It's the same thing someone has to get in the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63040	Answer Mr. Branko Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63041	Well, I'd just like to take a quick look at this. I'm glad there's a good will spreading, to respect such a constructive proposal. I see that now other parties accept it, and I think that in some ways we should go in that direction that concrete operationalization will look something like that. Is this a model, a protective interest instrument that used to work or direct tax relief on reinvested profits, as well as possibly selective promotion of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and an increase in the degree of self-financing of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship that is definitely in the biggest problems. It's a matter of operational work now. But this is an exact idea that I see there's an increasingly wider mood to support something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63042	Thank you. Replica Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Greek, you have shown that you are not for this budget. But I couldn't tell from the debate who it was for. What item on the expenditure side and what item on the revenue side would you change for how much? But I believe you know very well that the fiscal capacity of the state is not created overnight, that it stems from the strength of the national economy, and that the power of the national economy stems from the structure of the national economy, and that the structure of the national economy is unfavourable in the last ten years, that it has an unfavourable tendency, that the share of the primary and secondary sectors in the total gross added value has fallen from 32% to 30% and the tertiary sector has increased from 32% to 42% in which the financial intervention has even increased by 70%. And in the primary sector, industrial production fell 16%. And it certainly has an impact and that it should be taken care of when drawing up a draft budget. And actually this draft budget is to respect all these facts in the macroeconomic environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63044	Thank you, fairie. The answer, sir... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63045	That's a great question. I was talking yesterday about three options that could happen in Croatia when it comes to the budget. The first one's the one that happened. Therefore, retaining around public expenditure at the same level without changing the structure, so without installing a proactive package of measures. That's what we currently have and that's something that unfortunately will be mostly neutral in terms of economic growth. The second option was to move towards stronger fiscal consolidation. That would require cutting the spending side. Unfortunately, there is probably not much room for this, and the worst would fiscally stabilise the country in the short term, but in the medium term they would lose it on the revenue side because it would reduce consumption. And the third option is the one we advocate, which is to keep this consumption, but to restructure the budget. And if you're looking a little bit and what our respected economic experts are talking about these days, they're just talking about restructuring the state budget. If that's possible, then I'd like to say two more words. We said clearly the last line of defense two months ago at the rebalance I won't repeat what it is. After we get that out of the budget, there's about 30, 35 billion kuna left. You can't cut it off, of course, but it's possible to save on those items. We said material expenses, let's try to save 10%. Believe me, it can be done. Let's go materially, so let's get paid to understand each other, rather than material expenditure in health care. My praises to the minister who has rebalancing and in this budget, at least saved a billion kuna in the draft, and showed that it can be saved. Look. So it can be saved, we need you to know how much? Not 10. We need a 3 billion kuna circus from current consumption to the active measures I was just talking about, 3 billion. Why am I saying that? Because this percentage, which is 1% of all these countries of the European Union mentioned here these days, was about 1% of their package agreed with the European Commission, and everything on the shoulders of this package flew into a larger one in this year above zero, that's important, above zero, and unfortunately we're still underwater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63046	Thank you. We've got two more corrections. We have Mr. Davor Huška's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63047	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a colleague of Greece said again yesterday that Croatia has a high deficit, and I'm going to fix it yesterday and say it's not exactly a 4.3% deficit. It is not a high deficit of 4.3% of colleagues that you know as well as all of us are below the average of 25 EU member states and should be seen, to know that some members far richer than Croatia have a deficit of 6, 8, 10 or 12%. So that's not true. And a second reduction in public spending, public expenditure, so I'll remind you of public expenditures in 2009 reduced by 2.7 billion kuna, that in 2010 reduced public expenditures by 3 billion and 400 million kuna. It remains in this 2011 budget with a reduction in public expenditure you have just noticed well both in the Ministry of Health and in some other items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63048	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Bozica Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63049	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's the Greek representative said in his debate that we're in favour, I'll quote, we're in favour of unloading and burdening taxes. Comrade Greek, I don't believe you and it's not true, for what reason? That's why when you told me, then you thought of the entire SDP, and the SDP was in power in Zagreb for 11 years and in those 11 years you did not lift 18% of the cut. The only city in the Republic of Croatia that has such a heavy burden. So give a colleague of Greece, you are an expert man in this area, give advice to the city government in the city of Zagreb to lift the tax 18%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63050	And another one I've overlooked, Mrs. Sumrak. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63051	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here I will correct Mr. Greek representative's incorrect allegations in this part of which he himself called unconstructive discussions, because he divided the debate into two parts, and in that first part he said that the crystal policy of the SDP was supporting workers, pensioners, and so on. So I want to correct that quote, because it is incorrect, because you have proved by a series of your failures that it is not true, and that it is only in the words of your party, but you have not shown any part of it, you have not voted for the budget, for budget rebalancing please, when it has really been explained that you will keep the salaries of both workers and pensioners and giving, social giving and so on. In addition, when in one part the Labour Act wanted to change, so it was even a small part of the Christmas shoe, you rose to all four, you saw your chance to change the government, which you'll never change so much, so you joined up better, talked to the unions, so the referendum and so, here and it didn't work out. So I would recommend that, as the president of your party would say, you move your comrades from word to deed, show what you're saying in the informal pre-election section. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63052	Thank you. And the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Darko Milinovic, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63053	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I have to say, I'm glad that finally the SDP ranks understand, and in some ways I've come to appreciate it so much for the results of the health system reform. I must say, Mr. Greek of the SDP, I consider you to be one of the people I've been thinking about in the last month, two days to invite you to the Ministry of Health and to show you what we've done in the Ministry of Health during these two years of reforming the health system. And as some media are now guessing who is the biggest loser, and who is the biggest winner of the budget, but only because someone in the budget got more or less, so every year we read it in the media, and I just think that in these two years the Ministry of Health has rebalanced a billion and 800 million kuna, thanks to the reforms of the health system, and that this rebalancing this year, i.e. the 2011 budget is the result of the health system reform and that they could not do so without it. And very open, without cutting some rights. I'll tell you three years ago, actually two years ago, when we started reforming the health system here, I'll read you the goal, I'll freeze the separation rate from the national health care budget at 2009 level, all health systems in Europe, every year they increase their budget by 10%, the health budget of the Republic of Croatia, not that it's frozen out for health care at the level of 2009, look at budget implementation, I'm talking about HZZO, for 2008 it's 19 and a half billion kuna, and the plan, or budget for this year is 19 and a half billion kuna. So this is one of the financial data that says that the health system reform has succeeded, and it is very important that many have respected that I am Minister Schuker and that finances in the health system should be stabilised by the Deputy Prime Minister. Of course, but this financial stability is very important for raising the level of health care we have in the last 2 years in the Republic of Croatia. What and what I cannot agree with you that health care is financed from general taxes because that is not the case. It is financed from the contribution, Article 62 is financed from general taxes and social care is of course financed from general taxes. I agree, too, with you, that there may be savings. I'll do it here one more time, and that's why I think the Health Department is actually the biggest winner of this budget because we showed, among other things, all the other ministries that you can save. I will repeat here once again, every year about 10 to 15% of medicines are spent in Croatia more. And this year 4 million boxes of drugs were spent in Croatia more and every year until the reform we had to additionally allocate 250 million kuna for having drank more. This year, we paid those 4 million boxes of drugs for less than 250 million kuna. And it's the introduction of order into the system. Or, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which means the economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which says that we must reduce the administration of 5%, the surplus administration. Here, I'll tell you the information of the Croatian Health Insurance Office a year ago he had, a little less than a year, he had 2 512 employees, today there are 2 399. We have reduced by 5%, i.e. 113 and by the end of the year we will reduce the administrative burden of HZZO in terms of workers by 20. And thus in the following year for administrative expenses reduced 40 million kuna in the Croatian Health Insurance Office. Outsourcing procedure for 72 people, etc., etc. With the plan of public procurement of postal services and telecommunications, we cut 25 million kunas. And that's why I was encouraged by your debate, and now I'm standing on the fact as well as at the beginning of the health system reform when I said I was ready to come to Ibler's square, a political, or a snow nest in the political sense of that word, and talk about reforming the health system. And now I invite you, here you are especially, to review together what we did in the health system reform and, of course, this 2011 budget is based on this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63054	Thank you. It's Mrs. Milanka Opačić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63055	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This morning when I came here to the Parliament, someone sent me a message that yesterday the foreign owner made a decision on the liquidation of ETAS with 138 employees. So today we will obviously have already at the office of that one company 138 new unemployed and one less company. It should be said that about 11,000 craftsmen have fallen in Istria since the beginning of the year and are currently blocked by about 3,000. More than 800 companies have collapsed in the Split area, also since the beginning of the year. And that's some data we definitely need to worry about. Because when what we say to the real sector, so among those who produce, who earn, who fill the budget from their salaries, from their products, which we can make, we can really have a hard time talking about how we're going to finance the repayment of external debt, social contributions, education, health system. Therefore, all that is financed in the state budget by those who work and who produce. And that's why it's something that's been on for a long time now, one red light, and I'm afraid that no real models have yet been found to help Croatian entrepreneurs, not only survive in these conditions, but what's more important is that new jobs are being opened. And politics, an active employment policy also has its moderate achievements, unless we have jobs. So, only opening jobs can actually be an effective solution and unemployment, but also a budget-charging and solving of everything the state budget can. There was talk here about the opposition asking for wage cuts and pensions. It's just a prank. A fellow Greek said here it was the last line of defense for the SDP as well as many other rights. But what we're looking for is a different way of working. First of all, the introduction of order into the system, the introduction of order into the state budget itself without therefore pouring part of the money into private pockets. And on the other hand, we're asking to tax something that isn't taxed at this point, that an entire complex of things is actually made much fairer. I'm going to talk here today about a resor, it's a matter of the welfare system. I'd like to say I'm sorry for not doing anything for seven years to decentralise social care. This is important because it is difficult for the state to recognise the needs of the population, much better recognised by the mayors, mayors, people living in their midst. At this point, therefore, social welfare jobs should be reduced, and the financial resources to which they can cover them should be reduced. The fact that we haven't done decentralisation of the social care system is bad because of one part of the people, I can't say how much that figure is, but I know that in every environment when I come to find a certain number of people who simply aren't covered by any state aid, who literally live from what they can get in Caritas, in the Red Cross or what they can possibly collect as some part of their diet in the woods or in some small part of their own, so that's what they do, agriculture. So they're completely uncovered by any social care system. It could be called and called in the world as we say invisible people to the system, and these people would best recognize just those who work in local self-government units, but as we have all centralised it's simply not possible. Unfortunately, there's no order in social benefits either. We've had JMBG, now we have the OIB, but because of the system's unnetivity we don't actually have a complete overview of who gets social assistance, how much, from which levels everything can be withdrawn from social benefits and it seems to me that we've put in order we'd have a slightly better situation. We would have a much better coverage of those who really need social assistance and we would eliminate from the system those who are currently exploiting such a single system and drawing social benefits with several levels. So the introduction of order would certainly lead to savings in this system and would lead to a fairer distribution, because the purpose of social assistance is that it goes to those who need it, so to those who cannot earn for themselves. For years, the World Bank and the UNGDP have been warning us that, in fact, because of this unsettled system, we have a situation in which we extract a lot of money. We single out 4% of GDP for social benefits.However, those who are the poorest and those who need it most come in fact only some 0.3 or 0.6%. Therefore, we definitely did not include all those who need social assistance most, and for them we single out the least part of the financial resources. It should also be said that 40% of social assistance users in Croatia are workable people. Social assistance should not be given to those who can earn and who can work, but also to where to hire these people. So, we're going back to the beginning of what I was talking about just opening jobs... again, just opening jobs allows us to be able to hire those who are currently on the social side completely unnecessary but also those who have lost their jobs. For these people, however, special education needs to be made, most of these people are quite uneducated, so people who have been out of the work process for years and for them should form special programmes. But here's another one without opening new jobs, and that's the same limited range. The best social protection is therefore a employment policy. It should also be said that there are individuals, there are people who are this kind of mess in the social benefits system that don't overly motivate them to look for jobs, because they get social benefits, they get some more budget rights. Often their fee during the month is much higher, sometimes twice as much as those in some companies who work 8 or 10 hours a day. So this one injustice that people see around them that someone who's at home, not working, actually lives much better during the month with social benefits and working on black, than someone who gets up at 5 or 6 a.m. every morning and goes to work actually makes people quite angry. And that's what was supposed to introduce order in the welfare system, and so far unfortunately nothing has been done in that part. It's high time to distinguish what she's social and what she's not. In agriculture there are a number of people who are older, who cannot live from agriculture and then are encouraged by what is said to be a cow. Wrong. Let's tell those who in agriculture can live off incentives to give and let's let these people who are older, who can't really live from working on agriculture anymore, to protect them otherwise. In the former coalition government, we made one solution, we called it a social pension then, so something that should cover people of older age in this existential sense. And that's the same thing that needs to be introduced. I'd like to say something about violence between children and young people. We all start when unfortunately something happens to someone, and I'll tell you that you've taken down a lot of money in this budget again. Only in the Ministry of the Family 5 million kunas less on preventive programmes and programmes aimed at children and young people. And also the Ministry of Science and Education 9 million 700,000 kuna less for preventive programmes aimed at children and young people. Let's not save on kids, the problems are big. I'm sorry, for example. which the polyclinics have not opened in the area of Slavonia, the other in the region of Dalmatia so that we can have one multidisciplinary team both on one part of Croatia and on the other to help children who need it. You cannot expect people from either Dalmatia or Slavonia to travel constantly to Zagreb when they have problems with their children. We must make the multidisciplinary support available to them at least at regional level, so as close as possible. In the end, there was not much order in foster care either. I see in this budget the funds for foster benefits are reduced. So until it is also invested in foster parents in their education, financial investment, a good control and supervision system cannot even be talked about new deinstitutionalisation. So there's a lot of things to do here. I'm in the social care vault that I touched. And in the end, there's just one more thing. People know this isn't how it goes. We can't be in debt and lose jobs every day. People are only ready for all their victims if they know it's leading them to someone better tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63056	Thank you. Now we have a few corrections and replicas. First is the corrections, the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63057	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mrs. Opacic, I'm going to correct your incorrect claim, and it really seems strange to me that you're actually saying with such ease that the state can hardly recognize the needs of socially endangered citizens and citizens. I'll list just a few rights that only the Social Care Act ensures that I don't quote any other legal regulations. And these are constant financial assistance, aid and care allowances, personal disability, home assistance and him, right to parenting status, one-time cash assistance, child support, other benefits and assistance to provide accommodation and money benefits for asylum seekers, asylum seekers, as well as foreigners under temporary protection. And that's just one number of rights in all the glue and other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63058	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Turk is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63059	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm also correcting Mrs Opačić's false allegations of concern and welfare from the state level which she finds inappropriate or well-organised. counterpart Klaric said one part and a segment of how the state and how it cares about these very categories of people. And when we talk about this subject, so I confirm it, and on the other hand, with a comment on local self-government, it's clear that just by being together and living and working on the level of municipalities and cities, in fact, individual centres for social care get all their weight. Because today as the mayor of a city when we talk about social history, I use above all both professional, humane, and quality of exactly the center for social care whose criteria at the level of the state are unique, and together with these resources and decisions, we make moves on both the topic that is concerned about the categories of people we are talking about here and the best solutions, and in fact this community has in some way brought results.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63060	Please, let's just stick to the time because it's fundamental that we can work normally. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nevenka Majedenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to correct the incorrect allegations that MP Opačić said to improve the decentralisation of the social system's material or social state, which is really not true. That would be true in that case only if all units of local self-government were equally developed, unfortunately they were not equally developed. Therefore, each local self-government has adequate resources, so those with more resources could be more singled out for some social benefits and that would not be fair and it would not be socially sensitive. Therefore, while local self-government units are still not equally developed in the Republic of Croatia, decentralisation of financial resources is needed, therefore, from the centralised, state-of-the-art budget. The other thing is you said you needed to introduce order, further order into the social system.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63062	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63063	You must know that a lot of funds have been invested in material conditions, in administrative conditions, because the OIB that starts operating since 2011 will show exactly who has the property...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63064	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63065	And then you'll be able to determine exactly what social benefits are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63066	Please. Stick to your time as much as predicted. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Šima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63067	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, in your debate, you said what support you needed, for example. One cow. Why not? Slavonian villages, Croatian villages are devastated and this population should live, not in one village have five, six rich and 300 poor. Older household income support, and they support the shadow of culture, 3 to 5 hectares or less or more and why not support and on cattle, in this case and on other cattle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63068	Let's go to the replicas. First is Honorable Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63069	Comrade Opačić, you have done very well to remind you today of Prime Minister Kosor's statement that there will be money for salaries and pensions. It's a good thing you quoted it. But that statement by Mrs. Kosor about retirement is a statement from the goods with a mistake. In fact, it would be true that Mrs. Prime Minister said there would be money only for frozen pensions. I am now in doubt, I have received one bill under number 644, I guess you too, in which the government proposes that pensions are not harmonised throughout 2011 under the basic law, so they remain frozen and for the whole next year. That's not what was said, so there'll be money for frozen pensions only. They're going to be less than, three, four, five, five, five, five percent about. But as interesting as it is, the government's reason for the law says certain savings will be realised, I quote, they don't know how much savings due to the freezing of pensions throughout next year. And what is even sadder, this statement confirms that there is no even in the sense that there is a willingness to remove from the pension system anything that is not the consequence of the pensions' pension and the contributions paid, and of the 15 billion that the state adds to the pension system, and what Minister Shucker always points out as a major problem, of those 15 billion at least half of that because this government has put at least 8 billion expenditures in the pension system in seven years that are not due to pension insurance payments. So there'll be money for frozen pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63070	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63071	Here's my colleague, Lesar, you've touched a little bit more pension systems and pensioners, but it seems to me that we're talking about the same thing, that in some way it's wrong again, it's saving itself again, and let's say what kind of growth of the standard of one population, and these are pensioners here until some things are done. I was talking here about that in this one system of social benefits that's pretty messy, that there are major irregularities, I've been saying really encouraged by specific cases. The other day when I was in a small community, I saw an example. a situation in which social assistance is held by a man who sells more than 200 metres of wood annually, but on the other hand, an old woman at 72 who has a severely ill and immobilized son does not have a lack of social assistance. So that's what I was talking about, I wasn't talking about the rights that the state gives but I was talking about how simply the state can't see everything that's going on in local self-government units and that we're having this situation where we have an injustice that someone who can really make a living for themselves and makes a profit by obviously selling wood on black has money, but an old woman at 72 who's having a hard time caring for a sick son doesn't literally have a lack of income. Depends on who's gonna bring her anything from her neighbors to eat or pay for the directing. So I talked about it, and really until things are settled, we will have situations like this, and people will constantly experience this injustice very hard on their backs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63072	Thank you. We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63073	Comrade Opačić, you're saying that the government has not found successful models to encourage the economy. I'm surprised you're one analytical person, as you've overlooked four colossal projects that the government almost changed economic flows in Croatia by hair. Let's say first, it's part of that active employment policy, so-called. The project of co-financing on the fifth working day where the government spent as much as 47 thousand kuna on the needs of 27 workers or, say, famous projects, A, B and C models. I don't know how you didn't notice that, for example, in the project and even hired 30% of the resources available, but it wasn't spent so much because obviously our economy doesn't need it. So let's say model B, at the first auction, there were even two banks with as many as four projects, and model C unfortunately hasn't come back to life yet, but the government has time, it has nerves, and I don't understand why you don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63074	Thank you. Replication response. She didn't answer. Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the promoter, on behalf of the government, the esteemed Darko Milinovic, vice-president of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63075	Here I see that the budget debate has started well with arguments, and here I have heard two good discussions about one for health care, one for social care. Of course, I can't agree with the fact that nothing was done. Can we do better? It can be safe, and we're part of social care. So, it's becoming less and less likely to abuse those who use social benefits in terms of using them with several levels, because we're slow this year and last year, I'd say slowly but surely we're introducing aside from the income and property censorship from the right of use from part of social care. What I must say is that in this budget we have provided funds to pay off all social benefits as well as the previous years. We are developing very well and by the end I hope this year we will also come up with a master plan until, development of social care by 2016. But as far as decentralisation is concerned, we've done a lot in the last year and a half in the process of decentralisation of the social care system. 'Cause probably Mrs. Opacic, I don't know if she knows, but here's to the fact that in 10 counties we're spending what's-his-name. social planning, which means that I do not know the social needs of Vukovar-Srijem County as well as Zagreb or are not the same as in Istria County. And through that decentralisation, so we detect the problems of a particular region. Let's keep going to the information process. We invest a dozen social care institutions in infrastructure. And what might be best or most important to note is that I don't know where you read the information. But we're not cutting household benefits, we're increasing by 2 and a half million as well as parent status, the guardian by 7 million kuna. As far as foster status is concerned, I have recommended that children do not stay in institutions for up to three years, but in foster families, and now 979 children are placed in institutions. But I'll just say it, but that's a lot, and that's just 79 kids to three years old. We're preparing a new law, you know that we're preparing a new law, master plan by 2016 that we're going to publish, I hope by the end of this year we're dealing with thought, and we're most likely going to go to the children up to seven, not three, but up to seven years I can't fit into institutions but to settle in foster families. After all, last week we also received a commendation from UNICEF that we are the best in the region by this segment. So there's a problem. This is the way I look at it when I see what we've done in health care and social care, health reform and social care, two years when I look at myself, when I look back, I think we've done a huge job, and when I look ahead of me, I see how much more of this is waiting for me or how much work we're doing. But here we continue with the reform of both health care and social care. And the fact that this year, we weren't cutting funds here and we invested as I said in a dozen institutions of social care in information, in the social planning of an additional 23 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63076	Thank you. We have one correction by the distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63077	Well, Mr. Minister said he made an indication that the children, so these are babies that are being placed in foster families by the age of three. Mr. Minister, I'd just like to warn you to be very careful with that. As long as you haven't made any advances in foster care, as long as you haven't introduced one systematic surveillance in foster care. Make sure those kids don't go where they don't get full care. There are children who have certain needs as neuro-risk children. Whether families living in smaller foster homes have the opportunity to lead these children to certain treatments every day. You must take very good care of it and do not let it happen like in Slovenia where all children go to foster homes and where practically adoptions are flat zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63078	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63079	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Budget characteristics for 2011 very, very small revenues, far less than expenditure and of course the deficit covered by the debt. These are basic characteristics. Then we wonder why the small incomes? As long as they were only two years ago. Then we'll see that it's a decline of over 10 billion compared to two years ago, an analysis of the significant difference between the SDP and the ruling coalition. The ruling coalition assesses the decline in income is the reason for the financial crisis in the world and the inability of the Croatian economy to simply adapt to the crisis and the reason is simply an imported problem. The SDP assessment that the problem is Croatia's economic policy, that simply with its economic policy, the ruling coalition does not give guarantees and security to the economy that it will have a secure business, that it will have quality business, that it will be competitive. Therefore, the SDP estimates the Croatian economy is overloaded primarily with contributions. I want to be very clear here, with contributions that are not recognizable in Europe, given that the health contribution in Europe is at least financed from wages. That part. The problem of the second reform of the pension system. A peace system which is simply a burden primarily for the state budget, but also for the good part is not resolved from the wages. Therefore, the problem of pension and health policy in the part of funding. Third. A mass of parafiscal charges that we will not solve only by abolishing but simply by making the basic income of units of local self-government a communal fee that no country of Europe recognises. Because units of local self-government are financed by the burden of property. So, tax swaps. The SDP is talking about it. The battle to dissipate the economy, the change in the tax policy that we need to bring into line with European countries, because tomorrow we want to go into it. To prepare and make it possible to change the policy in which we will reduce the burden of work, and to turn that tax the way Europe has it so that this economy is competitive. Yes, that's what the SDP is talking about, for three years we've been fighting to say since 2008 that in times of crisis we can completely uncompetitively reduce if we change tax policy. And that there are SDP proposals, to reduce the contribution to health care on pay. Not that the worker pays 4 and a half million residents their health insurance, that part we move to capital gains, and on income from income from property, and on taxing the rich who have enormous assets, on taxing assets that are off-duty, does not serve even for housing, does not serve for economic activity. It was all a job of the fiscal government, of discharging the economy. In that discharge, we thought one part could go, and to increase the pension contribution to break up the story that we have 10 billion minus a year on the difference between paid pensions and incomes from pension contributions, to try to solve another pension column, so for a time we thought that the salaries of workers,... I'll take care of it. [[You don't understand.]] It's all about what we're talking about. The SDP is concerned that 6% of the real sector's wage decline, 6% with a reduction in this contribution, part of the business would have the possibility of both thinking and wages, 4% less that part of the contribution to health care is a lower amount of salary in the budget, not because the workers are fired, but the total amount for salary expenditure is reduced. But we need to change fiscal policy, we're talking about it three times, and we're going to propose again. However, we expected now, we do not want new taxes, a tax swap, a replacement with which we will unload the economy, which can be competitive. These are the proposals we see, so we wanted to see this budget for 2011. We want a serious assessment of why our incomes are dropping. What are the economic scores today? Another 30,000 unemployed, we're going to cut the number of employees, we're simply closing down economic operators, craftsmen are closing down. Are we going to talk about the country's unpaid income based on taxes and contributions? Somewhere close to 14 billion came. There's still talk that there's so much I'd say agreed, prolonged unpaid obligations. These are enormous amounts that the state cannot charge because the businessmen have become indivisible. Therefore, whether we are aware that we will continue to have a drop and contributions paid into the state budget and any revenue, regardless of whether these are profit taxes, because obviously we will not be able to talk about profits anymore, but there will be a problem and income tax. It's something that the fiscal government must make a suggestion on how to fight it. We expected a complete change of fiscal tax for 2011 in that part. But let's not hold back on that problem. For two years, we have been warning about the enormous growth of indifference in the Republic of Croatia, enormous growth. No measures, but no measures. We have reached 33 billion unpaid liabilities in the Republic of Croatia. That's the last data. We have proposed laws, we are now re-proposing, this time and obligations for the real sector to try in some way to influence their discipline. The businessmen expect us, from the legislative authority, to try to offer solutions in which they will be sure that they can still collect their claims. Europe is dealing with this, Europe is adopting a directive, but in Croatia we do not think that this is a problem, we do not consider it, and there is an unpaid obligation to the state budget and mutually unpaid obligations that encourage the closure of economic activities, the dismissal of workers. Yeah. As SDP, we offer solutions. Besides being ridiculed, it's not gonna happen. In this we see a change, and in this time in 2011, we expected a change from the government to show that she felt the problem of non-payment, that we must simply deal with this problem. We also expected something else, 33 billion unpaid liabilities means that the creditors should be brought into restructuring of such companies, into structural change, in consolidation, in the recovery of losses. Who's going to lead? We're gonna let the banks run it? Well, no. One of the biggest creditors will be the Croatian state. Should there be a government work programme for 2011 to consolidate here, I would say, an economic and branch and an entire economy that does not pay obligations, where will we lead other believers to save jobs? There are no such proposals with the budget. There's no such activity in the budget. There are no such announcements, simply, with this budget so that we can see how we will fight for a job in the real sector. We cannot escape, of course, that the economic policy of the Croatian government has not offered an active investment policy by the state budget. On the one hand, there is not enough resources, because the means are impossible to secure since the drop in income we have compensated only with the debts and at that moment we do not have enough resources for active policy. In addition to this budget of the Republic of Croatia, we should have seen, and how much HEP will invest, regardless of what we do not discuss, but we must send a message to businesses, that gentlemen will invest in alternative energy sources, renewables, however anyone wants, we will invest in hydropower plants, so much will be invested, the government will run the project. There's no such thing. Shall we talk about the railroad? Railway infrastructure. Not a single word has been indicated and what the government will do this year. We see from the budget a complete, complete lack of investment I would say in further structure of the entire Croatian Railways Society, but also without any indication of further investment. Yes, there are differences between the SDP and the ruling coalition. Active policy in the part of creating assumptions for growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63080	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63081	Making income growth so we don't have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63082	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63083	With expenses.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63084	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the thing at the end, but I think I need to fix it. He says counterpart Linic has no indication of any investment in alternative energy sources. So I remind you and the budget indicates exactly how much funds are provided in the Energy Efficiency Fund. We know that the fund called two months ago for a tender, that almost a thousand investment projects have appeared in renewable energy sources, that the selection is under way, that these projects will be funded in the following year and that they are therefore provided with funds in the 2011 budget. I'm a little worried about this change in course, I'd say, of SDP exhibitors. They now advocate a change in fiscal policy in 2011, and until yesterday they were talking about painful cuts, the need for layoffs, the reduction of wages and pensions. Something strange is happening today with the SDP exhibitor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63086	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, on behalf of the Government, the esteemed Ivan Shuker, Vice-President of the Croatian Government. Here you go. I'm sorry, we can't see if you don't keep the tile, lift it up like this and put it down. [[What about my line, Mr. Chairman?]] We haven't seen it, and you won't get the replica. Here's another time to clearly define yourself. Here you go. No, I didn't say the line, because it's not written. [[Intruder: So you said one correction and one replica.]] And please, so knock a little bit to be heard. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63087	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'm happy after these three SDP debates. First, which is obvious that if this continues, we will change the usual, so to speak, unfortunately, way of discussing the budget, and I think there are some issues here today that we can discuss. Perhaps only, but I wouldn't want to spoil this good atmosphere, if both colleagues Linic and his colleagues had put together these thesis, that they were backed up by numerical indicators, then they could even argue more constructively. And I don't think there's a lot of things that we can do in this way, that kind of diverge, but in some of the thesis brought by my colleague, I have to say, I wouldn't want to hurt him because I really respect him and I appreciate him, but obviously he didn't see certain legal provisions that exist. So what was often mentioned here, which is a reinvested profit. So you know there's a provision in the law if someone invests over 65 million and hires 75 people to get rid of the profits for 10 years. So, with the reduction in investment, with the reduction of employees, that release is 50%, and then 25% to the same number of years. But what I find strange is that on the one hand we all talk about how we should attract foreign investments, how we should attract private capital because it is evident that it is the only thing that can change the economic picture of Croatia at this point. We are all aware that the model that was good there from 2001 to 2007, which was mostly investment from the state budget and through state-owned companies was unfortunately spent. Today neither Croatian highways nor Croatian roads, Croatian railways not to speak, can make more significant investments. So it has to open up space to some other capital. And we can't talk on one side when we like it. Look at how many investors have come to Serbia, here, there, and at the same time we want to penalize and punish those who want to invest money in Croatia. Look at the size of the profit tax and don't, I really don't want to go back to the years, don't understand me now that I'm going that way if I'm going to mention it, I can say 2004 doesn't have to be 2003. And look at the income from the profit tax last year before the 2008 crisis. And by 2003, we had a so-called. The dividend tax, and after that, we abolished it. It happened not to be taxed, but to increase the base several times. So, from the income from the profit tax of some 3 billion we came to income in 2008 to 10.8 billion. And no one can say that there was such an expansion of the Croatian economy because then they would have had an economic growth of not 3.4 and 5% as it was but it would have been far greater. But simply with a reduced profit tax rate, we simply led people to simply show them real income, pay 20%, and with that money they can do whatever they want. It was thinking and talking, and my colleague Linic talked about it not once about that reinvested profit. But how do you treat her later as an amortisation bill? And the other thing, what companies that invested big money in Croatia make a profit? Let's just say, no business bank in this financial crisis has practically gotten out but left it. And that's why we have so high liquidity in the banking sector today. And let's not keep lurking that no matter how much anyone liked it or not, but Croatia is the only country that will get out of the crisis one way or another without anyone's help. And today we have one of the most liquid banking sectors in Europe. Our bank isn't in trouble today. The post office bank is in trouble, which has been recapitalised, and today it has the same very high capital adequateness. So we keep forgetting. When we talk about tax burden, the article that says that Croatia has the biggest tax in the world, you know what annual salary is measured and compared? It's a hundred thousand dollars. How many in Croatia do we have people with a salary of $100,000? And you know what an effective rate of income tax in the Republic of Croatia is? 11.2%. Now with this first rate down from 15 to 12 effective income tax rates in Croatia will decrease to over 10%. We'll talk about the contributions later because my colleague Linic talked about them, and now I'm talking about what my colleague, Greek, said. So, we're all talking about some tax discharges, but as the RH tax system is conjectured through all of these 20, let's take '93. A year as a base when the first tax reform was made. And there were various political options in power and there were various economic schools, so from people who were headed by both the economic sector and the finance ministry. However, what's a common feature for both of us is that we relyed on so-called. consumer taxes. So, value added tax and excise duties. Let's leave our contributions in private. In 2002, because of some, I say, IMF demands we put them in the state budget, that's another pair of shoes. But when I'm talking about them, look, we can talk today one way or another, but the fact is that we collect pension contributions somewhere between 18.5 and 19 billion kuna, and pension payments are 35 billion. But at the same time, we have two problems, and there, my colleague Linic and I will not split up, that this contribution is highly burdened by the price of work in Croatia and that it does in a certain way inconclusiveness. We are also all aware of the fact that no matter what political option we belonged to and how long it took or didn't take for the daily political purpose of keeping the problem of the second pillar of retirement if there remains a 5% separation rate in the long term, looking at the problem. And now what we have put into economic recovery measures and what will start this year, regardless of what it is electoral, etc., is that Croatia must make one serious reform of the pension system. We made it in '99. And again, I'm going to say, regardless of the three and these seven years, we've all intervened in this pension reform and brought down its basic principles and today we have four types of pensioners in Croatia who unfortunately have pensions as they are. Well, if we can all agree on a political consensus here, let's make that pension reform together. Let's make a pension reform that will be fiscally sustainable in the long term and that will put us in a position to disburse the Croatian economy and thus make the labour price lower and increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. I think it's a subject that shouldn't know the political boundaries. It's a topic of national interest primarily because of one thing we unfortunately shouldn't ignore. We have a million 190 thousand pensioners today, we have 304 thousand unemployed, and when you look at how many employees we have, then unfortunately we have more of these two groups than employees, so when we add that to the social, so when we take these 490, million 500 employees practically pay healthcare for 4.5 million Croats, then we see what situation we're in. Then that load story looks a little different. And now I'd like to say something that my colleague Opacic used to say. So that one process that took a long time to prepare technically. You can't talk about a fair social policy if you don't have a clear property status. And no matter how far someone's been talking to the OIB, it's the only instrument that's gonna do it. We will have an opportunity with 1.1, except for the grantovnica, because we modernised, infomatized, connected a complete state administration that unfortunately wasn't connected to have the opportunity to withdraw for every citizen, for every company as much as its profits are, how much it buys, and it will certainly happen that someone who doesn't belong in that category that needs social assistance won't get that social aid. But I'm saying, we can charge each other as much as we want. However, when we started with the OIB project and we started what is said from the bottom to clean up individual records, then you should have seen what was written down. But we're here at the end, all that's left is a garter. For information only, in the garter at the moment when we started with the OIB only 5% of the owners of the real estate in the Republic of Croatia were seduced by JMBG means 95% was just a name and a last name. And you know how many people in Croatia have the same name and name. So, all this was to be taken care of. Without it, there is no quality policy. And just one more thing about liquidity and liquidity. My colleague Linic, you know very well that these 30,000 that have been driving in the FINA that have not been paying their dues since the '90s are here. 60% of them are due to what in
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63088	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63089	Just two more sentences, please. You know very well that in a limited-responsibility society, five, six of them don't matter, only one of them turns out to be the founder, these five you don't see anywhere. Now with the introduction of the OIB and the practical amendment of the Court Register Act, the High Court of Commerce will have to introduce all owners inside. And the moment the OIB is clicked, you'll see the owner of that company, and the owner of that company is someone else, and that way we'll eliminate those 60% of the companies that are blocked that don't have any employees. And in the end, one more sentence, please. My colleague Linic remember the Law on other outstanding claims and here when he only spoke as an opposition representative, I said fair intention, correct intention. Unfortunately, however, because of the situation, the results will be as they were. You know exactly what they were like. So, as long as the court doesn't reach a verdict within two months if I sue someone for not paying me, then we can make whatever laws we want about someone paying for something, we won't do anything. And I think we agree on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63090	Thank you very much. I'd like to inform you that we still have 76 individual hearings reported. That in two hours, we've been through the debate. We're not gonna have a break. We'll work all the time. Well, here's to knowledge and alignment and we're moving on with an individual debate. Dear representative of Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63091	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honored Deputy Prime Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The fact is that today we have a document that is brought into the conditions of the crisis, which is, of course, reflected in the negative signs of almost all key macroeconomic indicators in the first half of 2010. However, what is important here to emphasise and what I am giving particular importance is that in the second part of the year, slowdown and the end of negative economic trends are expected. What is particularly encouraging is that the 2011 budget is the first budget after two years in which the economic recovery is projected with a growth of the gross domestic product of 1.5%. The total revenues of the state budget are planned at € 107.4 billion, representing an annual reduction of 0.8%, while total expenditure is planned at €122.3 billion, which ultimately accounts for a deficit of €14.8 billion or 3.4% of gross domestic product. It is important to stress that the 2011 budget reduces the share of state expenditure in the gross domestic product, as it retains the same level of budgetary expenditure as in 2010 and is predetermined by the conclusion that budget expenditure is frozen in 2011. So this is the only real possible budget that's the right time to live in. Furthermore, the budget is also marked by reducing the tax burden on citizens and, above all, because of the fact that, with the 1st November, a higher rate of special income tax, pensions and other incomes, and the amended Income Tax Act allows about a million and a half citizens to have higher incomes. However, at the same time, this means that for a billion and a half kuna, the revenues in the state budget are lower. The new tax burdens will not be, to the satisfaction of all citizens, and non-taxable duties will be further reduced to facilitate business for economic operators, but also to encourage their development. It is also very important that the protection of the most vulnerable and most sensitive groups of society will be maintained, and in that sense no pay will be reduced, pensions, social benefits, children's allowance and maternity benefits will not be reduced. In particular, it should be pointed out here that the birth benefits in 2011 are increasing by 54 million kuna. By reducing pensions and wages, it would further reduce and bring down citizens' standards, which would ultimately reflect and have negative effects on consumption, and ultimately affect the whole economy. When we talk about the reduction then we could hear from a previous speaker from counterpart Linic who says the SDP is proposing a reduction in health contributions. But on the other hand, we heard, and according to some of the information that I have is that the reduction of health contributions would imply an additional hole in the health system from about 10 billion kunas, which, of course, was proposed in the SDP to cover new taxes that would be introduced, which are property tax and capital gains. However, at this point it should be pointed out that capital gains are, until further notice, a very weak potential source of tax, and the introduction of property tax is actually something that would last a longer period of time and would certainly not give a short-term effect. It is also important to bear in mind the fact that Croatia is in the finale of the negotiations for membership in the European Union and that the 2011 budget also sets out items relating to the accession process to the European Union totalling 2 billion kuna. In addition, in the 2011 budget, it was necessary and additionally to provide 2 billion kuna for interest payments for the census, for next year's parliamentary elections, for a referendum on EU accession, an increased amount for pensions, etc. What is important is that, precisely for these amounts that I have previously cited, the budget has not been increased, but for that amount, the reduced expenditure on the regular business of the state is. One of the important goals that needs to be highlighted here is the creation of solid foundations for economic recovery. This is why an economic recovery programme was developed, supported by all relevant domestic and international institutions. In this regard, the fact that 30 investment projects are of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia presented by the Government, worth 14 billion euros. Since I come from Rijeka here, I especially want to point out that the single most valuable project, therefore the project worth 3.7 billion euros, is coming right from Rijeka. Namely, it is a project for the construction of the Rijeka-Zagreb railway line... an important project for Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County, of course, and for all of Croatia, which will have a great importance and impact on the development and increase of the competitiveness of the Rijeka port, but not only of the port but also of the development of the economy of the Primorje-Gorski County and of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, there are other projects of great importance for the Primorje-Gorski County such as the Kukuljanovo-Omisalj regional gas pipeline project worth 23m euros, then the island Krk-Kopno pipeline worth 11m euros, the Prelug project 130m euros, etc. Speaking of investments in Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County, I would also like to emphasise the fact that in this budget for the projects for the construction of port infrastructure in Rijeka, there is a guarantee and an increase in funds compared to last year which I certainly welcome and which is evidence of the importance and importance of the port of Rijeka in the transport and economic sense of the Republic of Croatia. So to conclude, this budget is based on several essential facts. First, it guarantees the payment of salaries, pensions, social contributions and protection of the most sensitive and most vulnerable groups of society. Secondly, it allows Croatia to prepare for entry into the European Union. Thirdly, it allows for the introduction of a further recovery of the economy under the Economic Recovery Programme. And that is why I will support the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 with all accompanying documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63092	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Zeljko Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63093	Mr. Chairman, distinguished government gentlemen. We have before us a new Budget Proposal for 2011 and it is already quite said about it. From the context of his income and cost side, what I may want to say and in some ways point out that the government and Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor's decision said that there will be no increase in the expenditure side in these two and three years, and that is what is foreseen in this budget. However, it should be said that this cost-of-cost creation was also meant to provide for around 2 billion costs that could not be affected, which were real in 2011. So, first of all, a referendum on NATO, there is a planned census again after 10 years or, say, preparations for the elections, which actually means that there should be an additional 2 billion kuna savings on the other side to stay on these scheduled levels. If we add that, in the past 2009 and 2010 it has been cumulatively found in the cost structure or balanced between 5 and 6 billion kunas of savings, it says that in this last period, the Government led President Jadranka Kosor to make an extraordinary effort to put the spending part as much as possible in the context of the plan. I would further like to say here, and it is indisputable that the fundamental issues that are related in part to the social welfare, but what makes up the segment of pensions, social assistance, maternity benefits, so this government in the 2011 Budget Proposal has maximum protection and publicly said that it will not be reduced as such. And there's this one circular difference compared to the budget of the position of its proposal, and the opposition's proposal, which in principle only says that these and these types of rights and gains should be reduced. But maybe something else would be needed here... right on the subject of social benefits, social benefits, and the policy of this government on the subject. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, above all, from the state level, rules of conduct have been laid down through the Social Care Centre, criteria for how funds are deployed on different grounds. But no law, no good regulation can be revived unless it comes to fertile soil in practice and in field work. So given this, cooperation with units of local self-government, with municipalities, with cities and institutions living on the ground and in that area can either get or do not get good results. The fact that Croatia is a socially sensitive state cannot also be said. But also Vice President Shuker said something that we have a chance to see on the ground often, which is that there are a large number of people who need social assistance, who are looking for, but a lot of people who aren't looking for it. And we have that other group of people. I won't say it's big, but also that are well aware of all the rights that can be sought at the level of the social segment, and in this way in different institutions are just looking for certain means, seeking their rights. And we really support this introduction of the OIB that will thus introduce order, and see all kinds of income from our citizens, and when it comes to social requirements. But also, and it's just about that second segment, and that's the work of the county courts' garter where we have a situation where people are asking us for certain social rights, and the owners are either real estate, apartment, building, land of several hundred thousand kunas or euros, so I'm talking out of practice, and on the other hand they're looking for certain social benefits. Certainly introducing order into this topic will definitely lead to further improvement of the situation in such a way that the social assistance of those to whom it is most needed is right. When we talk about the part of investment and investors, then depending on the day-to-day policy, they are investors when we challenge new investments, the opening of jobs in the budget, and on the other hand they often know to be tycoons who are the only ones who want to cheat this country and for daily-political purposes, they often use these two terms for the same people, especially those that are really very good and good at quality, and in some ways they put themselves in a position to question why and whether we need them all. And here it is when it comes to creating conditions for the development of the economy and creating a prerequisite for the revenue side of the budget, often mentioned what conditions it is necessary to achieve in order for certain investors and investments to have full weight and get full momentum. We are here at this point focusing on tax, fiscal and ina policy. But it should be made clear that the creation of preconditions related to better economic development, in particular investment and investment, needs a much broader look at the topic. Considering what is all about the assumption of a better quality and successful development of new plants, new investments and new funds in the city budget. So then there is the necessary co-existence of the central government again, but there is also a unit of regional and local policy because, in fact, a large part of the implementation of the new programmes is linked to fundamental assumptions, and these are spatial and in-in plans, and there is a ministry where Mrs Dropulic's head has made a legal step because by forcing a large number of municipalities, cities to create and adopt spatial plans as preconditions for the development of days. It also immediately adds to organised property-legal relations in the area of ownership of the country as a fundamental prerequisite for the opening up of a new economic investment, and on the basis of this and of certain projects which as such are the basis of this overall development. We are witnessing that very often this is where it gets stuck when it comes to property-legal relations just looking through history, looking at the grant owners, the owners in the cataster are different people and persons as possible. But I'm also talking a good part of the mess when it comes to that. And yet often in the environments where these things happen and units of local self-government can also make certain or positive or negative steps. In particular, in my area in the work of the grantovnica and the Municipal Court, who six years ago had 7,000 pending cases with the union of the state, county, cities and municipalities, today is the number of cases 120 at this time and is significantly creating preconditions for exactly new investments. Or regular number two, issuing building permits needed main projects in which, in the good part of our territory of the Croatian state, given what I said here and for objective reasons, there has been a setback once again by working together, and given the inability and inability to re-employ cities and municipalities can be included in the co-financing of people who are working on such projects to start investment. Because there's nothing worse than when an investor has to wait for a month, two, a year, two or three to create a prerequisite to start an investment. When I say what I'm saying now, I speak well of practice from one side as a parliamentary representative, and on the other hand as the current mayor of one city that is daily going through these very topics that I've been talking about. And my message and the point is that we create preconditions for the successful development of the economy, investment, and then for the better, the better side of income in the state budget. And I'll accept the proposal for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63094	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63095	Dear fellow Turkish, you said the government made the most of its savings effort and defended Croatia's thesis as a social state. And I agree with you, and you will probably agree with me that the issue in this social policy is an issue of equality and justice is an extremely important thing. And the government was on a good track with one bill to allow even greater savings in the state budget, however, it unfortunately gave up. It is a proposal for a Law on residence, which is already in two attempts in two mandates after the first reading, it is important also because of the electoral lists and the settlement of the census, but also because of the expenditure from the state budget on social policy and health items. We testify that we have too many citizens who have double residences, some of them have left behind, and some have falsely reported residences in Croatia, in order to exercise children's allowance rights, and for free, or health care on the burden of the state, on maternity benefits, on social assistance, and thus burdening the state budget to prevent the money the real state has from being allocated to those who live and work in Croatia. And the only way to solve this, but indeed an unfair approach, is the new Law on residence. Six months ago, we had him in our first reading, he's gone. The government is clearly under pressure from one of the political coalition partners again, as well as in the past term, giving up on it and therefore expressing regret, as it would allow Minister Shuker to make the budget at least a billion kuna smaller.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63096	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63097	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, I say that I will support the draft budget for 2011 for a number of reasons. On the basis of the 2011 State budget proposal, it is based on macroeconomic indicators for this year and development projections for next year, meaning 2011, 2012 and 2013. The last quarter of this year shows a slowdown and end of negative economic trends, as well as consolidation and recovery of economic growth. The projection of macroeconomic developments and fiscal opportunities in the next period is based on a strategy of government programmes, which define the objectives and ways of achieving economic recovery. Here, starting from these bases, for 2011, real gross social product growth is projected from 1.5% and its growth by 2013 to 2.5%. Real growth of all components of gross domestic product is also expected, from industrial production, through transport and tourism, to trade in goods and labour markets. These projections also support the continuation of positive trends in economic and investment growth in our international environment, which will inevitably have an impact on our overall economic movements. The revenues and expenditures of the state budget are kept globally at the same level as the previous year, but this does not mean stagnation, but a slowdown of state spending growth in line with the government's long-term strategy. This also means reducing the share of state spending in gross domestic product. Another important feature of this budget is that it will not be reduced, we have already heard, salaries, pensions, social benefits and other fees to citizens, and that means ensuring stable income for citizens who are financed from the budget, pensioners and employees in public services, it gives them safety and frees them from fear of spending, and increased consumption means increasing demand for new products and services. Nothing less important or the fact next year will be to increase the tax burden on citizens and entrepreneurs. We must not forget that Croatia is in the final line of membership negotiations in the European Union, and that this requires significant institutional, administrative, legislative adjustments that will have a significant fiscal impact. For this process here, it is necessary to secure and the government has secured around 2 billion kuna. This really seems like a major expense, but in the long run we are expected to have positive financial and other effects as members of the European Union. Subsidies and aid in agriculture will not be reduced, but it is important to say that good control will be carried out of the spending of these appropriations. In addition to the draft budget for 2011, the Government, or the Prime Minister, said we would also have a proposal for the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which actually continues the process of consolidation of public finances. Finally, in my view, this budget represents one coordination of monetary and fiscal policy, it contains a series of measures that will affect the recovery and strengthening of the competitiveness of the economy, and measures are not at first sight drastic, bombistic, sound, but are embedded in a series of activities and constant efforts by the Government to implement, and their effects will be stable and long-term. And finally, I think this 2011 budget is real, and I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63098	Thank you. It's next, the distinguished representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63099	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Croatia is today looking at the final act of the collapse of one bad policy and one bad government. With a budget like this, the government is tied around its neck by a stone with which it will no longer be able to stay above water. However, the situation is even more difficult, and the problem is far greater because this budget is taking the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens to the bottom. The purchase of social and political peace in the election year has always been expensive and long-term missed policy, but this time, such a policy has really come to the wall. There is no production in Croatia that can settle 122 billion kuna of non-productive state spending, nor is there any production that could ensure the repayment of a new debt of 23 billion kuna to cover the old and new budget deficits. The state budget should never be seen as a statement of numbers, but primarily as a statement of political decisions. Therefore, such a failed policy cannot be corrected by amendments to the figures in the budget, but such a political concept should be completely rejected before the challenges of devastating consequences. Croatia needs to change the political model of disposing and alienating unearthed and borrowed public money for personal and party benefit, a new model of responsible public policy aimed at creating new values, new employment and using public money for new development and for the benefit and progress of Croatian citizens. In the situation of high-risk prospects for economic recovery, opposition criticism of the ruling policy is no longer sufficient. Opposition solutions are needed both for a better budget and for a better economic development model, and for a better policy as a whole. That's why today the SDP is doing just that. It does not talk about individual budget items and figures but about possible solutions in certain areas of the economy and society which should then be reflected in a completely different and better state budget. In such a focused debate, I'd stick to only two areas. On the reform of the state administration and the development effects of Croatia's future EU membership. As for the state administration in the debates so far on the necessary changes in the public administration's functioning, the government has persistently tried to reverse the debate on who is in favour, and who is against the dismissal of workers in state and public services. They were running away from the answer to the previous and the real question of what kind of government do we need? In response to this question, I come from a brief analysis of the situation so far. The way Croatia's state administration works, and in a broader sense, the public administration shows the syndromes characteristic of state administrations in unstable transition periods. Typical phenomena are observed for the burden of bureaucratic mentality that is reflected both in modes of action, habits and in the value system of civil servants. In addition, the ruling political structures in the transition process have not so far shown sufficient determination and interest in radical changes in administrative culture. That is why the legal system reflected only the illusion of legality under which the political and personal interests of political authorities were hidden and maintained the real inequality of citizens before the State administration. Such an analysis of the state of administration imposes the need for its thorough reform to depolitise and train a more efficient administrative system while reducing the costs of the administration, improving coordination and coherence in the work of the administration, redistributing functions between the level of government and between the classical administrative authorities and executive agencies. Improve the management of functions common to the entire government sector, especially functions such as human resources management, budget management and legislative planning. The main goal of the State Administration reform is to change the behaviour and actions of civil servants and state institutions in a way that creates a more professional, more efficient, overall cheaper, but better paid Croatian public administration that is able to cross a long path within that period from government and citizens' management to civil service. Such a reformed and modern state administration would have to be able and would have to be able to perform 3 important tasks. First, take an equal part in administrative action within the framework of the EU institutions. It will have to show strength, the ability to propose and implement legislative solutions and administrative procedures at national level and will have to communicate openly, transparently and in good time with citizens as users of administrative services. Such a policy in financial terms also requires a relative reduction in the budget consumption of the public sector to a share in GDP that will correspond to the average share in EU countries. This means that from the current almost 11% of GDP, this total public administration spending should be around 8% of GDP and should be done during the next 4 years of development. In the government's mandates since 2004, expenditure, the mass of salaries and material costs of public administration in the state budget rose by more than 40%, from 22 billion kuna in 2004 to 31 billion kuna in 2010. This clearly resulted in a rise in the number of newly employed people during this period, as both nominal salaries and GDP grew slower than these percentages of the mass of expenditure for the State Administration. In order to reduce the share of expenditure on public administration in GDP to 8% of the mass of salaries and material costs in public administration over the next 4 years, it should gradually decrease from 31 to around 28 billion kuna. And after that, somewhere in 2015, that mass of expenditure could then move at the rate of growth, i.e. rise at the rate of GDP growth, thus retaining its share of the desired 8% of GDP. However, not even this kind of financial budgetary objective, without speaking about the reform objective, is not visible in the budget projections until 2013. Only from clear answers to the question of what kind of public administration we need will we be able to define and answer the question of how much public administration we need. Unfortunately, there is no attempt from this government to establish a better public administration for better Croatia. And to end, just a few words about expectations of Croatia's future EU membership. It is wrong and harmful to spread the belief that EU membership will in itself be a solution to the economic problems in Croatia. Also in EU membership, the competitiveness of the national economy is built and supported at home, not in Brussels. And in EU membership, a good national government must know how best to take advantage of common European policies for the progress of its own economy. What about shipbuilding, what about agriculture, what about existing and what about potential new industries and investments? The answers will have or will not be given by the Croatian government. That is why the budget cannot and must not remain passive and only follow the necessary co-financing from the EU Structural Funds. If we want a development budget that will further strengthen the ability of the Croatian economy to cope with the competition of European partners, then it must now provide for additional funds not only to strengthen our administrative capacity but also additional incentives to strengthen our investment capacities in specific development programmes even at the expense of other budgetary spending. None of this development policy can be found in the proposal for a state budget for next year. Surviving the last year of the mandate on a recognizable and unsustainable model of covering all consumer requirements by itself related stakeholders and coalition partners will no longer be able to hold water until the masters leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63100	Thank you, Master, thank you. We have a further individual debate, the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The state budget is always a reflection of the policy of one government, so how it will be implemented next year and when it is assessed what government policy is in Croatia then it is dominantly said that key reforms in health, in the pension system and the state administration as three segments affecting the state budget policy are lagging behind. Therefore, when wage and pension payments are dominantly highlighted here, this should be the normal state of the budget and normal state in the economic sector to pay regular salaries, i.e. from the pension budget. It's not a special success. And I think we should stop having these discussions. Who's estimating government policy this way? So is the local public, the governor of the Croatian National Bank, economic analysts and, in the last month, even the advisers of the Prime Minister, are also assessing the international institutions from the IMF to the World Bank. About the budget itself, I'll look very briefly at the revenue planning. They're overrated. If that were true, you can see from the fact that we have several rebalances a year, last year as many as three. These expenditures are frozen in this year, however, not even such overestimated revenues can cover them and result in a deficit of nearly 15 billion kuna, so at some level as planned for 2009. It should be said that the tax revenues that dominate the state budget, which are labour and consumption taxes, are maximum, so they can no longer increase. If you're going to increase them, they're going to give negative effects. This is because we have a drop in employment, which we have a reduction in wages from all of this results in reduced consumption, so neither by increasing the tax rate on consumption we can get the effects that would significantly increase budget revenues. Here, it should be said that the problem of reducing income from income tax is to the greatest extent belonging to local and regional self-government, and indeed when we see that in the state budget, the part left to offset tax revenues is at 88%, which will only then happen in local and regional self-government. And indeed, this should begin to be discussed and solved because there is no compensation for those revenues in the local community. We have a significant drop in economic activity. All the measures taken so far have not actually obtained results expected from them, nor those 10 anti-recession measures from February 2009, nor this Economic Recovery Programme since the beginning of 2010. Thus, this decline in economic activity reduces profit tax. It seems to me personally that the level of planned profit tax revenues in the 2011 budget will be difficult to achieve. Why do I say that? Because their size will be determined by the results of the business of the economy or the real sector in 2010. Therefore, the final tax bill, the return of the profit tax or advances to be paid throughout 2011 at the level of the 2010 achievement. Why do I say I'm being questioned? Because the results for 6 months of business are actually very worrying. A 7.3% drop in income, a 46% gross profit, that's 5.8 billion kuna, let's figure that's half a year's cut in almost a billion and 600 million kunas less taxes on profits. That we have reduced our investment by 18 billion or 34%, that in the real sector we have a 3% drop in employment. Croatia has a worrying low employment rate, the working-age population is moving around 54%, that for the first 6 months in the real sector a million and 163 thousand workers or 65% less than in the same period in 2009. In total, we have registered a million 435 thousand employees or 89% less than in the same period last year. If we add another 104 thousand who work in companies or are registered to work in firms that have liquidity problems and do not have an orderly payment of salaries and other obligations that go towards the state but also to their creditors, then it is 190 people who are asked about income, so a questionable salary. They should also be taken into account and the part of the legislation that does not work should be amended. I would only be here for a very short time because something and my colleague Linic were talking about indifference. It's one of the essential factors that actually bites the economic flows, but also the revenues of the budget. I'll try to talk here in numbers, even if it's not always a good thing to do with numbers, but it's actually important to see what trend we have. When the government adopted anti-recession measures in February 2009, one of the essential measures was to cut payment deadlines, so where it naturally has influence and increase liquidity. In March 2009, we had a total of 93 thousand 785 employees in such companies and crafts, and the amount blocked by 19.9 billion kuna. Now in August as the last data I managed to get to, 104 thousand 950 employees + craftsmen or 12% higher, and the amount of blocked funds 31.9 billion or 60% in a year and a half. State claims in it are about 13 billion kuna. I agree with you, Minister, that there are a large number of non-payments in such a record of non-refundable claims or those that you say are accumulated for 10, 15 and maybe 20 years. But we have to deal with it. We need to know how much he's really charged, how much he's uncharging. We need to make order in payment traffic. That's why it's not just enough to strengthen fiscal responsibility. I agree that such a law should be passed, but I will say, in the Directives of 2003, the European Union has been seeking to curb the disorder in the mutual relations between creditors and debtors and since the adoption of the first payment directive, it updates it almost annually. A few months ago in 2010, she updated it again, where she says that the mandatory payment is within 30 days, that it can be extremely 60 days, prescribes interest, prescribes penalties and actually forces the judiciary to react on time. When we get into a situation like this that out of the total amount of funds blocked, in fact 50, maybe even more than one percent we won't be able to charge you know what that means, which means for the state budget, which means for the economic course. And that is why we have once again prepared a law that we want to open up a debate about exactly how to resolve indifference and how to force those who are making a mess in payment traffic to either be eliminated or to pay for their obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63102	Thank you. The guest of Gordana Sobol is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, as a representative of the opposition, unfortunately I cannot vote in favour of this draft budget. In part, I had my reasons during yesterday's committee sessions when I said that it had never happened like this year to get a budget and then I would say we were financing parliamentary democracy, parliamentaryism, and we were discussing the draft budget so that today in an individual debate, it would be adopted as soon as possible. The second, of course, why I cannot vote for this draft budget is that this budget offers, better said that this budget does not offer. On the third hand, I could say that it is probably a large majority of citizens that it is obvious that nothing else could be expected from the government in the 2011 election year, because when you think about what this budget offers, to whom such security is offered, then it can be said that only the government offers the security that will be held in both government and government in that year, regardless of the price it will pay for such thinking and effort is actually the largest part of the citizens of this country. I am not dealing with the fact that in the past year and a half, two or two and a half years, however you will, this government has done absolutely nothing and what it has done has obviously been wrong, that in any way, the consequences of the crisis which, of course, unfortunately, Croatia has been exposed to. In the past two years or a year and a half, regardless of major announcements, the government has neither begun any serious and significant reform, starting with state reform, public administration reform, local self-government, and of course, it is illusory to expect that it will start with such reforms in the election year. Since half of 2008, because of those who feel that we should be responsible, we have warned the government that the crisis is approaching, that what is happening outside Croatia will not be able to pass Croatia and that eventually it will feel in Croatia, but if we do not prepare for this crisis then unfortunately we will be much harder to get out of it. We have already, since half of 2008, offered solutions in a series of legislative proposals, primarily for the one part to help the economy, and on the other hand we have offered solutions that predict the effects of the crisis, which would make it easier for the citizens of the problems that this crisis is bringing to them. You remember, for example. We have proposed a law that will allow the payment of citizens' loans to be postponed, we have proposed increased and extended assistance for those who need it most. This is precisely what we proposed at the time when the crisis, colleagues and colleagues, was banned for the government and for all those who belong to the ruling coalition. Moreover, we were then declared a disaster when we warned of the poor 2 billion minuses in the budget at the beginning of 2008, and then it turned out that these catastrophes, by warning today, are even greater catastrophes when they point and point at the estimated 15 billion kuna deficits, with that they can expect even more. So, on the one hand, the SDP has proposed and proposed today, through a series of legislative proposals, to help economies, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, and on the other, to preserve as much social security as citizens who need this social security. And once again, it should be warned that over 60,000 jobs have been shut down this year alone, that it is now showing how much it was, in fact, the misleading figure on so-called. the growth of employees created as an effect of seasonal employment. However, it was only the consequence of a short tourist season because already here in October we came to a figure of 305,000 unemployed and it is shown that right now we politicians were right, but those experts who warned that there was a rising trend of unemployment in Croatia since half of 2008 and that this is most evident right now with the latest figures in October, and forecasts are that this figure will increase to 350 thousand by the end of the year. Unfortunately, on the other hand, there's no indication of any effect, and I'm talking about what I'm talking about today. the economic measures that the government took in half of this year, and then not that it was a powerpoint error only with the date of implementation but obviously there was a mistake in all measures and complete that presentation. It has become in some way a public secret that economic measures are not being implemented, that there is no effect. Let us remember all the legal proposals that were adopted practically overnight here and were practically presented as a rescue for Croatia. It is a public secret that the state has been re-determined, that nothing has been done to solve this problem and that, instead of reforming the state and public administration that has been announced not only this year, but over the past few months, not that there has been a reduction, not that there has been a five-percent reduction that is now predicted to occur after the next elections, but in the past few months and the number of those employed in the state administration system has increased. It is because someone will say according to the available data that have been collected is about 134 new employed civil servants, but therefore an increase in salaries for them of 18 million kuna for the following year is foreseen. And I, of course, ask the question of those who stay out of work daily, those who stay out of work daily simply don't know when they're talking about the security of wages paid by the Prime Minister and the Minister. Whose salaries? Those who work in the real sector, unfortunately, are not spoken of. It is not said of those who work, but it is now about 100,000, and they do not receive wages for what they do. Neither those who work, receive minimals or receive part of their salaries in bonuses, nor are they paid contributions to health and pension insurance, and nothing seems to be on the issue, or it seems only if they decide that they are potentially employed in the ultimate despair of going on strike. Then someone remembers in the state administration that it might be good to look at how many contributions have not been paid for a long time, and let’s say, among other things, what some incentives have been spent on. I remind you of the case, this directly refers to the stone case. But you also have a new case of the Model company that's also been getting 400 kn salary for July. It's about textile workers. No pension and health contributions are paid for years. And I'm now asking from this pay phone whether to find one of the secretary of state who's going to leave and see what's going on at that firm. I will end up with the fact that, as a SDP without supporting such a proposal of the Budget and this year we have referred to a number of legislative proposals that we consider to be able to help in the coming year and in the years to come, I am stressing on the one hand the recovery of the economy, and on the other hand the increase of social security for all dear gentlemen, and not just for those who are dependent on the state budget in this case today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63104	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63105	Comrade Sobol, you have reminded yourself of your proposal for a legal solution to aid in the payment of citizens' loans. I remember then the government said that the proposal did not support it because it would be resolved in a better, more efficient way. And what's different now than it was when you proposed that law. Now the warriors have become the creditors of their employers. Probably in the lack of trade capital in the Croatian banking system. Now the employers are doing the following. When paying off salaries where they're still being paid, but not in bonuses, workers are suspending credit rates, but they don't pay off banks, business banks or pay off at a month, two or three delays. Of course, the bank sends workers a warning that costs 50 kuna and charges tight interest. This phenomenon is becoming more and more mass, and increasingly leads to workers lending their employers, and whatever institution we ask everyone is powerless. But for those who do not believe, and the members of the Government are here, ask a fellow Minister Bosnjakovic who has specific examples and cases, and thank him for intervened in order to make certain judgments as quickly as possible and protect the interests of workers where the employer has not paid to take the money into the bank for two years, and the bank has come and sold the apartment and house. It's an alarming situation. I believe that you, too, are looking forward to the government's proposal to address the problem of repaying the loan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63106	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63107	Thank you. Well, colleague Lesar, you've cited one of the examples of how, in fact, what's actually going on, I'm going to say this to one general anarchy and chaos and we're waiting for the government to do something about it, I'm afraid we're waiting for nothing. And these workers are waiting for nothing, as unfortunately we have witnessed from day to day, that because of the inability to pay off the housing loans, that it is increasingly work over houses and apartments. As the government has shown then that there is no hearing about that part of our citizens, so unfortunately I repeat once again I fear that we will be waiting for the days when the government will take care of these cases as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63108	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63109	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister. We heard from our colleague Mimica earlier that the budget is not figures but the budget is something else, and I agree that the budget is a document that expresses the policy of one government, one option. But when it suits us then we say that the figures, when we don't fit, then we say it's something else because yesterday we had an opportunity to hear from Mrs Pusic who wanted to show the figures the actual expenditures, revenues, projections in 2008, 2009 and 2010, and she wanted to illustrate by the figures that this was not a good budget projected and how the deficit projections were wrong. All of this would be true if the budget were made in isolation, if we were to look at the data beyond the context of the situation and if there were no macroeconomic indicators. But when the figures are put into context as explained to us last night by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Shucker, then it looks a little different. Whether the fiscal projections of the Croatian National Bank, the World Bank and all those projections confirmed by EUROSTAT should be taken into account. So, first of all, macroeconomic indicators and then budgeting because they're the key to budgeting. If only one budget even a small local one had to be drawn up, then you would see how it is not simple and how very difficult it is to reconcile the income and expenditure side and how very difficult it is to balance it. And I also agree on the local budgets, I agree that the impact of the tax change on income, and that the various situations have affected the reduction of parafiscal yields, but in any case, and when you bring that budget, you have to take care of macroeconomic indicators. As for income, we have heard several times that incomes have fallen and even by 10 billion in the last few years, but we have also heard in the debate where Mr. Schuker replicated to Mr. Linic that the profit tax in the last 2003 to 2008 has increased from 3 billion to 10 billion. Now we can ball here as they say and say one thing, the other says the other, but in any case the facts are here and the figures are the ones that speak. This budget has three characteristics, as we heard yesterday on behalf of our club, the fact that it is social, as much as anyone here doesn't like it, the fact is that it guarantees salaries, guarantees pensions, guarantees maternity benefits, child benefits, social benefits, whatever we heard it is normal and natural, but in these circumstances that are not normal, because they are crisises, and we have to admit that the economic and financial crisis has taken place and Croatia has arrived later, but has arrived. It must also be acknowledged that the government has taken many steps, although it is heard here that nothing has been done to improve the situation economically. It must be recognised that a certain social partnership has been achieved, if we are keeping in mind that no changes to the Labour Act have been adopted, although I have a different opinion about them, but it was not intended to conflict and conflict with the social partners, so neither will there be any wage cuts, and you know what consequences such treatment would have had, and perhaps the consequences of these payments were a reduction in the time of 2000 to 2003, when the salaries were reduced, when the consequences were a series of lawsuits and later payments from the budget that suffered due to these payments. And we had to do it all according to court rulings. Another feature is further economic recovery, as much as you want to convince us today that there are no indications of economic recovery and that there are no measures taken by the government, but it is white that it is not true, so there are no new tax taxes, investment is encouraged, there were speeches yesterday and even before 13 and a half billion possible investments, so the prime minister herself said if half of it were to be launched that this is already a major advance for Croatia. It is also an action plan to remove bureaucratic obstacles in the strength to get to building permits as quickly as possible and to address bureaucratic obstacles, which I believe has already occurred. We also reduced parafiscal fees, remember that alone here in Parliament we discussed a lot of laws that we reduced both tourist tax and memorial rent, and water compensation, and we reduced a number of other fees, and we also rationalized the number of agencies, we rationalized the public administration. It is you who, I must re-absorb Mr Mimica, because I have no chance of replication, I will use a coloquial term, and I must say that you have spit out a whole river of civil servants, which you have said are incompetent and that they will not be able to deal with new challenges, which is simply not true and you know that we have good civil servants, you know that I am dealing with all situations, and also with membership in the future of the European Union, which you have also said that it will not be better for us to not be solved by entering the European Union as it is spoken. Well, no one said that. We simply see a great chance of entering the European Union, and we believe that we already have enough trained experts who can deal with this situation, and that we are the public administration that we reformed. So this is instead of a replica. In any case, there are indications that we are coming out of the crisis, that GDP is growing in the last quarter, and 1 and a half percent is planned in this budget. As regards investments, there was a saying that in 2012 these budget projections would reduce the amount of capital investments. It is so, these figures speak, but also you have to count on funds, you have to count on these European funds, and hope that we will have the strength and knowledge to use those funds, because everything else would be contrary to common sense. So we want to create an entrepreneurial climate, and I hope it creates itself, both at central and local levels, and I want to join here all those who say that there is not a sufficiently good entrepreneurship climate, because in these entrepreneurs or in some investors, whether they are foreign or domestic, we generally see potential enemies, and I think we should look at them not as potential, but as real partners. Without them and without their investment, we're really going to have a hard time moving forward. As for your ideas about property taxes, capital gains, they may be good ideas, but the fact that from these funds would be very weak sources of budget filling right now. Because you know what the financial market is like, you know that it's not right now, there wouldn't be enough money on that capital gains. As far as the third pillar of this budget is concerned, it is the European Union that I have already said something about. It is visibly represented with two billion kunas. You are saying that it is not enough, that it is necessary to move ahead and that the Priors not only follow what the European Union is currently telling us, but that we should also give additional funds and these funds are quite enough for the realisation of Schengen, for a referendum on the entry into the European Union, and all that is needed on our part as an alliangle part of the structural funds also represented in this budget. And it's not exactly the fact that the European funds were poorly agreed, they were agreed with 92%, and that's what we had last time we talked about the report. We see that many European countries are slowly coming out of the crisis, and we have a situation that may be a little slower, but later we came in and we hope that we can catch that step, but we also see that the Europeans couldn't bring their budget two days ago, unlike those of us who hope to bring it next week. We also have to make sure that we have limited ourselves and given ourselves a limit, we have limited factors, that there is no increase in the expenditure side, and we ourselves have limited ourselves to the next three years, and that was very brave and responsible to say by this government and by ourselves in the Parliament that we represent this side, that the next three years freeze funds in the pre-election year. You have to take care of that. The fact is that the government is serious, because the plan for the consolidation of state finances tells us about the announcement of a new law that we will receive in the procedure, the Law on fiscal responsibility, which will make it impossible for us both at local and national level to break through the items, that is what happened and what was, to become a custom. And as for the IMF itself, we IMF won't, we don't, we don't think we can do what they would do. This morning we hear that your last line of defense of the SDP are salaries and pensions, so is this side. I don't think there's a need then for the IMF to come, which would probably be the first step in reducing wages and pensions because the purchasing power of citizens would be reduced, they'd be in a vicious circle. In any case, there were also stories about deficits. I want to say that the deficit was the same in years when it was the government of the SDP, but in any case, I can't count everything I wanted now, the budget I support, it's very transparent, and I think this budget explanation is for the first time completely transparent that there are no additional questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63110	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63111	Here's a respected colleague with a few words of a more principled nature. When we talk about the budget, it would be a yes or a more accurate one to talk about the model. The Croatian model of management, the model that was almost exhausted. I say it's over, he's not exhausted yet, his time is running out. And that model was based on unreal spending of financial resources, spending what we didn't have. If we remember all these discussions, 15, 10 years from now in the Croatian Parliament, we were probably acting like we used to in the Council of Joint Works. We were talking about rights, we were competing on who would be more entitled to each group in society, and we forgot, you're from Dubrovnik, we forgot about the word freedom. We're not talking about individual freedom at all, competition, creation. We spoke neither of responsibility but of rights alone, and there were those of us who pointed out that only what was coming could be spent. And if we're in debt, then we should spend it wisely. If we had spent wisely, the highway would probably have been almost in front of Dubrovnik, and today we would not have witnessed some being detained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63112	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63113	I will answer you non-bene pro toto libertas Venditur auro, freedom is not sold for any gold and we have not forgotten freedom, but when you have already come to me and when I have the opportunity to replicate even though we have agreed not to replicate, but to independent representatives, during the time you were Minister of Freedom was sold in the following way: T-HT, Rijeka Bank, Privredna banka Zagreb, Splitska banka, INA, Pliva, and yet all of this sale has yet to be charged to cover the deficit. So you weren't the right person to replicate to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63114	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here is the 2011 State budget that clearly shows all the parameters and items that remain the same or are something reduced on the revenue side, but also on the expenditure side. The 2011 State budget is planned in the revenue side with 107.1 billion kuna, i.e. € 107.4 billion, together with revenues from the sale of non-financial assets and expenditure of € 120.2 billion, i.e. €12.2 billion, together with expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets. The budget deficit as we can see is 14.9 billion kuna and 4.3% of GDP, respectively, with a tendency to fall over the next period. I would like to say something about this budget on the funds that are intended to provide for Croatian defenders, disabled from the Homeland War, imprisoned and missing. As we can see, the funds that are intended for them are realised in the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and civil and military disabled and veterans of war are mainly planned in the same proportions or something reduced and the important difference that happens is certain that a certain number of cars have been purchased in this year, which each year after 7 years, are being neglected for needs and this is confusing in the budget by those who think that the reduced items of budget for the needs of Croatian defenders are important. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Ministry of Environment Protection, Spatial Planning, Construction, Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Social Care, in all these ministries are certainly items that support and strengthen the lives and work of Croatian defenders and their care. In all these ministries there are certain items that someone does not look at and ignore what is planned. We can say that in this crisis year too, we are satisfied with the budgetary resources allocated to Croatian defenders and that it will certainly be enough for all that is foreseen in the next period. In the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, funds amounting to 4 billion kuna were planned, and the position of care for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War was planned in the amount of 2 million 707 thousand 771 kuna, which is a minor reduction of 2.7% and refers only to the material expenditures planned in these elaborated positions. So there's no significant reduction in the users themselves. Within worry, permanent rights amounting to 785 million kunas are also planned. The reduction is by 0.6%, in fact, only for consumable material and for some small expenditures that were previously planned. One-time rights of 39 million kuna and 37,000 kuna were reduced by 2% for orthopaedic and other medical aids for Croatian wartime people of 2 million kuna and this increase for orthopaedic aid reached 33.3% of the increase. So what is necessary and necessary certainly in the budgets has found its positive shift and funding to ensure that Croatian defenders and rehabilitation needs as well as medical aids are certainly provided. The funds for the employment of Croatian defenders amounting to 23 million 770,000 kuna have been reduced by 10%. Since a series of cooperatives were established, that a series of defenders certainly found their satisfaction, a job through cooperatives and which continues to be funded by the Ministry of Defence as a stimulant with 150 thousand kunas for each established cooperative and for each successful another with 50,000 kuna certainly makes all those who have found themselves happy through cooperative and work and attraction for themselves and their families happy. In the follow-up, the national programme of psychosocial and health care worth 11 million 697 thousand 500 kuna at the level of this year and the means to improve the quality of life for families of Croatian defenders and Croatian wartime people worth 2 million 600 thousand kunas are also at the level this year. The funds allocated to the Associations of the Homeland War defenders have been reduced from 14 million 692 thousand 71 kuna, resulting from the reduction of... funds and definitely reduced revenues in Croatia's lottery are also reflected in the inability to finance the associations themselves, and the rationalisation of the associations themselves is necessary so that we have also taken these measures to work on the rationalisation plan of all possible costs in all segments. The funds for housing by granting a loan amounting to 33 million 665 thousand 700 kuna have been increased by 8.3%, which makes us happy to see the largest number of Croatian defenders who are already some in their immediate lifetime who have their problems. Since children have become adult and can no longer achieve the participation of a family that reduces the cost of paying off loans to them, certainly as much as possible by means of larger credits as possible, as well as by ensuring the construction of housing facilities at locations in local self-government units that have enabled them through the provision of land and infrastructure, we can certainly be satisfied because in this item, an increase of as much as 45.7% for individual housing works through the Ministry of Construction. In any case, the programme for prisoners and missing persons was planned to amount to 7 million 899 thousand 500 kuna, which is a minor reduction of 1.7% compared to the one planned for this year. While the programme of marking the site of death in the Homeland War is planned to spend five million 520 thousand kuna, an increase of 22.1% compared to this year. The housing that I was talking about is certainly one of the major problems that keeps us down and constantly following us and, therefore, through the Ministry of Environmental Protection, this item is presented as the one for which 46 million 993 thousand 559 kuna will be provided, which makes an increase of 45.7% and makes you happy and meets all those who will be provided with apartments that have been waiting for so far. I would also like to stress that in this budget are incorrect those things that are said to have deleted the item for the dead Croatian defenders i.e. for their burial. It's absolutely incorrect. It was transferred to single-aid items that will continue to finance the funeral of Croatian defenders with military honors. In the reduction of the budget that is visible to the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, clearly shown positions of reducing the cost of work of the Ministry itself as well as of its employees as well as material costs at all levels, which makes for an extremely correct attitude towards the state budget and spending of money and rationalising all expenditures. The implementation of this objective plans to reduce the number of repealed secondary solutions under the administrative dispute in 2011 to 12% in 2012 to 10% in 2013 and 5% in 2013. It is also planned to strengthen the control of the legality of second-degree medical committee findings. It is also planned to reduce the number of repealed first-degree solutions by strengthening the professional capacity of first-degree bodies through various forms of education and guidance for handling. Thus, the number of repealed legal first-degree solutions in 2011 would be reduced to 10% in 2012 to 7% and in 2013 to 5% of the total number of revised solutions. We estimate that on the basis of the applicable Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and members of their families from 2011 to 2013 the process of recognising the status of Croatian wartime invalid from the Homeland War... for all those Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who applied within the legal period until 31 December 2005. In the teaching process, an average recognition of Croatian war invalids from the 9th group with a personal disability of 153 kuna per month is expected. Here is the legal number of users certainly decreases in terms of life, given the course of the Homeland War, given the mortality of Croatian defenders and everything that happens in that population. We can certainly be pleased with this budget and welcome it because it is made rationally, dedicated to those items that are extremely necessary for the population of Croatian victims, families of prisoners, missing and dead Croatian defenders. I welcome this budget proposal and will certainly be pleased for this population who has certainly owed Croatia the most and also for all those social categories that expect to have both social assistance and pensions and salaries in good time and all that goes with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63116	Thank you very much. Now it is up to the honourable representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable State Secretary. Here I will, through my presentation, look back on budgeting through a few words, but first of all, I have to look back at the discussion of some colleagues who really talked about everything and everything in their presentation, and at least in terms of the actual possibilities of this budget or the real possibilities of life, and the economic situation in which we are currently in place. First of all, I think it is most important to tell the citizens that this budget has been adopted in accordance with the opportunities and current economy in Croatia and in the best possible way that it was possible to bring it. It is not good for us to spread demagogy in public, especially from those people who come from the opposition SDP party and who have simply put all the burden on both the Croatian government and this budget that has been passed, and as I have already said, it has been brought into those conditions as at this time and as possible. But I won't hold on to it. Let each one go to his soul, every one of those words said, especially those heavy words that were spoken. And I am sure that in these difficult times we simply all need to gather our heads together and try to find the best solution for Croatia. The best solution for Croatia is to see how and how to get out of these difficulties, and above all, I am sure that the only development of the economy and every contribution we make here in this Parliament guarantees that we will get out of these difficulties as soon as possible. There were very few people especially from opposition parties who did not say that the contribution to this situation in which we found ourselves is not exclusively, but I am sure of a great deal of the global and economic crisis. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have witnessed not so long ago that we only had a different budget two years ago, that we have had a different deficit, but all of this has changed over a short period of time. The global and economic crisis is the main culprits of the economic downturn in Croatia. I am saying this because I have a relationship with the economy and it is precisely in the economy that there has been a breakdown of economic activity and because many economic operators abroad have failed and that entrepreneurs in Croatia have also lost their customers. Anyone who thinks a new buyer can be found quickly, anyone who thinks a new product can be found in a short period of time is wrong. So let us be patient, let us be patient until the world's economic activity, i.e. in Europe, first and foremost in Germany and in other European countries to which Croatian companies are based. It is not true that the culprit is the Croatian government who has done everything to help the economy and, above all, through the economic programme, through economic measures, through HBOR. And on this occasion, I would like to highlight one great support from the Croatian Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of the Croatian Economy, especially the exporters, who, together with the Croatian Government, did everything to help and save the economy in any way. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if there were no such measures, I assure you that today many exporters would not export and that their activities would certainly come into question and that they would certainly be even worse results. You are aware, but you will not admit that in 2008, and especially when difficult times have arisen and the global economic crisis Croatia could not and could not government, and also HBOR was in charge of world banks for the reason that at the time it was simple and who was giving loans was under great interest. And of course this has all contributed to these difficulties together, but here we are witnessing that in certain activities we can already talk a little bit about waking up and production, increasing economic activity both on the domestic and then on the global or European market. When we talk about the budget then we should certainly point out here that in our budget, and you all know that we have a lot of fixed items, items that simply cannot be changed, the truth can change them to implement reforms. But at the same time, let's all be for reform, not just be declarative reformers, and then when we get in a position to implement the other reforms, then we just turn the board around and talk differently. So I would like to remind you, and for the sake of the public here, I would like to say that in the budget we have fixed pension costs of about 35 billion kuna, that we have the salaries of civil servants and all those who are tied to the budget of 25 billion kuna, that we also have health care and social cca 30 billion and very quickly through these 3.4 items you get to over 90 billion kuna. Dear colleagues and colleagues, where there are other expenses that we have for interest, for various subsidies that are more than 15 billion kuna. We got to 100 billion kuna very quickly, and then we wonder where we can do it and how we can do it in order to cut these expenditures. True we can, they're called reforms, but reforms of respected friends don't have time to talk about it today, they have to happen sooner or later, but then we just have to be all those who will be able to talk to both the social partners and all those where these painful cuts will be carried out. It is also important to stress that in the 2011 Budget, therefore, we also have extraordinary expenditures that we did not have in 2010. They primarily refer to the population list where we should additionally provide 146 million kuna, where we also have parliamentary elections in next year where we also need to secure 177 million kunas or that is 323 million kuna. We also have increased pension expenses because we are witnessing that a few people are due to the law, which due to other things went into retirement where our pensions will increase or better said we have to secure in the budget of 163 million kuna. We also have an increase in maternity benefits which is in any case commendable if our birth rate is already growing because we are witnessing that if there is no natality that there is no future in Croatia. And for that purpose, we also had to provide an additional 53.5 million kuna in the budget, which we didn't have in the budget in the last year, and that's 216 million kuna in total. And if we add to this extraordinary expenditure of 323 million, only in those four items, respected colleagues and colleagues, is more than 530 million kuna of extraordinary expenses in the 2011 Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63118	Bring the end, your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63119	And finally I'm going to finish and say that these are indicators that say that the budget is too optimal, optimal and that it is made in accordance with its capabilities, and we all need to do this together to help Croatia get out of this global and economic crisis and... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63120	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63121	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Lucic, when the global crisis was at its peak, and you paid her the most attention in your presentation, then the representatives of the Croatian government began from the former prime minister to the minister said that the global crisis would only sober us up and that there would be no significant negatives in the Croatian economy, the Croatian economy and finances in connection with the global crisis. Furthermore, this same Croatian government that you call Croatian but also our Government I know that it is always called my Government and have been used and used today by prime ministers as my Government, and I think it is still the Croatian Government. Furthermore, when you talk about election costs for the next year of 170 and some million kuna, you have already announced that you will transfer these costs to 2012 and that you will hold the elections in 2012. So you would charge the most likely budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 but you would actually place a great burden on this one, which is otherwise caused by this power among citizens and Croatian peoples with the management and this way of managing the Croatian state. Or maybe you don't think elections should be held and 170 million kunas should not be spent as well as a census that is regular every 10 years and that has always been known to be held in 2001. They were in '91, 2001, 2011 and there will be if God did, and in 2021, when we will be much more, and I think we will be much, much less, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63122	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63123	Well, buddy, I was really talking about the real situation that hit us, and you're sure you know what I'm doing, as soon as I've dealt with it before, so there's probably a reason why I'm saying it. It's not true that the government denied the crisis. I was talking about the same crisis in 2008 already in the sixth, seventh month, and I'm a witness to companies that were regularly cancelled and were already spoken then and no one denied that the crisis existed. At the same time, however, you cannot say that you were such psychics and that you knew to what extent the crisis would occur at the global European level and also in Croatia. No one here knew that, but now you're all smart when the crisis is on the way and when what happened happened. You weren't the ones who knew what was going to happen and none of us knew it. When you talk about the election, I'm talking about it, and you don't understand me. I'm aware that the election should be, but I'm telling you that's exactly the blow to this budget. If it wasn't for a choice, we'd have that 150, 170 million for some other items. So don't talk about it. I'm saying it's an extra blow to the budget, because the elections are coming next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63124	Thank you. Please! Let's move on with the debate. It's next, Honourable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the introduction, I will say that this 2011 budget is brought into the atmosphere of a complete apathy of Croatian citizens. In fact, they're almost not interested in this budget. Their concern is daily how to survive. Because you know, yesterday is better than today, and today, unfortunately, it's better than tomorrow. This budget doesn't offer citizens hope of getting better. His creators are offering assurances that they will be the same, that the salaries are secured, that pensions are secured, that social benefits are secured. And citizens know very well that neither salaries nor pensions nor social benefits are safe if the economy is getting worse. It is the power of the economy that determines how much can be spent. So it determines that fiscal capacity, and the power of the Croatian economy is best witnessed by an army of unemployed. Every day there are fewer and fewer income-makers, and unfortunately more and more those the state supports. The Croatian economy just can't take it anymore, it's literally on its knees. Here is a colleague, Lucic, mentioned earlier in his discussion the term "fragment" of the Croatian economy. I need to talk to the entrepreneurs. They say I can't anymore, that they've exhausted the last reserves. Unfortunately, they also confirm their business results. In 2009, current business losses increased 26% while pre-tax profits decreased 24% and investments were 20%. In the first 6 months of 2010, these negative trends are further tightening. Gross profit decreased 54% and investments 34%. Unemployment is the biggest problem of this government. Every day, existing jobs are lost, and the government is unable to create or create new jobs. At this point, 304,000 citizens are out of work. The only thing scarier than this figure is that there are as many as 100,000 young people in the 304,000 unemployed, with every four of them with a degree. And it's actually our biggest dead capital. We trained these young people, we invested in them so that today their skills would be unnecessary in this country. What we are really wondering is the future of such a country and the future of young people in such a country. Their future is obviously gustarbianism. Because unlike the Croatian economy that shows no signs of recovery, the economies in the environment are recovering, growing and progressing. With 304,000 unemployed still working 70,000, but unfortunately he doesn't get paid for his work. And the accident you see never comes alone. The loss of a job very often in Croatia is often associated with the loss of a roof over the head. Because an unemployed man is a man without receiving, and a man without receiving can't repay loans and his house has to go to the drum. Hundreds of houses and apartments are sold through the executive procedure. Unfortunately, not only is it sold because of the non-payment of the loan, the increasing number of such sales is also due to the inability to settle the directing. Citizens no longer have the current needs, are literally in charge of naked survival. Of all the activities in Zagreb, I will say as much as 41.3% are due to unpaid bills for water, heating, gas and waste, with the fact that the average salary in Zagreb is almost 30% higher than the average salary of the rest of Croatia. On the other hand, banks continue to make high profits, net profits of $ 3.4 billion in 2009. The truth is 25% less than 2008, but it should be said that the main reason for this is the reduced profit of actually the cost of booking for the losses tripled compared to 2008, and they are equal to the net profit achieved, so 3.4 billion kuna. The banks therefore provided themselves very well, from the risk of the inability to repay the funds. Over the back of citizens and Croatian economies clearly again. On the third hand, the property of newly-roasted Croatian millionaires, which was mostly acquired at work default, in other words by theft, because the job default is nothing more than theft, unsanctioned and widely tolerated kidnapping. Such property in Croatia is not even taxed, let alone taken away if acquired illegally. Croatia, we must say, is indeed a country of absurdity. The SDP club proposed and proposed solutions to the problems I mentioned in my debate. That's how we ask that non-payments be treated as a felony. Our proposal is smoothly rejected, and now that the water has really come through the eyes, we now hear shyly hinting at the possibility of passing such a law. We're still looking for a tax on interest income, which should detimise banks to increase interest rates. And most importantly, we are looking for a fairer distribution of the tax burden, in a way that is also taxing citizens' property, but also to equalise capital taxation and labour taxation because, at the moment, that is, so far, work in Croatia is much more taxed than capital. So I'm talking about stronger taxation of profits, speculative capital, etc. And to conclude, with the 2011 budget and the 2012 and 2013 projections, the government wants to convince us that it is fiscally responsible, because it is bound not to increase budget expenditures. Unfortunately, I have to say that this doesn't solve anything, because the problem is that budget expenditures are way too high, and it's actually irresponsible to fix at the same level. Croatia has been living beyond its means for too long and spending what it does not have. The Croatian economy can submit a budget of hundreds or slightly more billions of kunas, and no more than 122 billion. But who in Croatia asks the economy? The government gave up on him, because she found a better solution, the borrowing. As long as it goes. At least spent the future a few generations in advance. And I have to say that I am personally worried about the ruling position that the deficit of 4.3% is actually not a high deficit, that it is lower than in some other countries, and it could be said that this deficit, even higher than it, is not a problem for national economies that are potent, powerful, and competitively export-oriented. Unfortunately, our economy is not like that, and 4.3% of the deficit is a huge burden because economic growth or better to say by the downfall that we have in recent years is not even providing us with interest on loans, but rather delaying them for some better times. Therefore, if the budgetary revenues in 2010 are reduced to 2007 levels, then the budgetary expenditure should also be reduced to the same level. With this budget, the government has shown that it does not want to cut, its only goal is to retain power, because the government that would cut would probably lose the elections, but the reforms would create long-term conditions for growth in the economy, for employment growth, and therefore for citizens' standards. One word would open up the perspective. So the cuts are necessary, they simply have no alternative, must be worse to make it better. And just one more thing, with this budget next year that is actually lost years ahead of us and the promise of more than a modest economic growth of 1.5% and that growth is unfortunately questionable, so one further huge lagging behind Europe. So we'll grow up just like the Dwarves do, but unfortunately they never become normal people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63126	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63127	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Minister, State Secretary. So the 2011 budget is essentially very similar in the structure to the 2010 budget, and when we talk about the effects of the 2011 budget, then we need to look back and see what it was like for us in 2010 and the budget which is therefore very similar to the 2010 budget, we can't get any different important effects than what was the 2010 budget. So let's not draw any additional conclusions from the same, because the same thing can't give a different effect if nothing else has changed. Secondly, here we are, trying to convince us that this budget protects citizens' interests in such a way that pensions, social benefits and wages will be paid. This is partly true because wages will be paid only in the public sector, 250, slightly more than 250 thousand employees and tenants and other employees in the public sector, but this budget does not answer the question of whether certain salaries of people from the real sector, from the private sector, who today are becoming harder and harder to pay, who are getting less and less salaries, and who are getting salaries with an ever-increasing backlog. This budget does not also provide an answer to the question of how much of our plan is to preserve jobs and how much of our plan is to create new jobs. And it's about the effects they're talking about. However, what I would like to point out in particular today on this budget, which is therefore not only necessary to change the structure of the budget, it is necessary to change both the way state and so on. a political-redistributive model to a decentralised Croatia. Why? Today we have a situation so that when it is necessary to vote for this budget we have the exact price of each or some hands in this Croatian Parliament. It is well known that Mrs. Adlesic's hand costs 5 million kunas because in a very strange way the Bjelovar Student House finally found itself in the 2011 RH budget, although when we proposed it they assured us that it could not happen because it comes from decentralised funds. So we also determined the price of each hand here in the Parliament. If that doesn't happen in the future, the SDP will go after the decentralisation of the state. But so you don't say it's some kind of political parole, I'll give you some information on why it would be good. And the data says this: that countries of the old EU member states can draw a complete link between the degree of decentralisation of the state, the national income per capita, the situation as they went into crisis and the situation as they got out of the crisis. Here are concrete data – Denmark has 42,000 euros per capital of GDP, the share of local expenditure in public expenditure is 64.2%. Sweden has 35,000 614 euros per capita of GDP per capital, the share of local budgets in public expenditure is 47.7%. Germany has 30,000 392 euros per capita, the share of local budgets, local spending in general public expenditure is 44%. Finland 34 thousand, share 41%. Dutch 36,000, 34% share. United Kingdom 29 thousand, share 30%, etc., etc. And behold, wonders, the country found itself in Greece's biggest crisis has a share of local spending in public spending of 5.5%. Which means that from this data or all the data you have for the EU, it's very simple to say that the higher the level of decentralisation of the state is greater the GDP in that country. The higher the decentralised rate, the lower the central government deficit. The greater the state's decentralisation, the smaller the crisis and the faster the country gets out of the crisis. Now, we instead of discussing it and discussing it today, we're dealing with a dirty business, and that's what we're talking about is reducing the number of units of local self-government. Looking at this data we can draw the conclusion that the number and size of units of local self-government but have absolutely no connection to the GDP per capital in a particular country nor have any connection to the share of local expenditure or expenditure of local self-government in total public expenditure. For example, Denmark has a small number of local self-government units because they implemented the reform, now 98 units of local self-government and an average living 56 thousand residents in the local self-government unit, but one Germany has 12 thousand 339 units of local self-government and an average living in these local self-government units of 6000 655 inhabitants. So if we're going to go back to what happened in the past period, then we can see that in Germany, which has a huge number of local self-government units, small local self-government units and a large GDP before the crisis, there was a rapid exit of that same Germany from that same economic crisis. Because there is no development at central state level. The Central State shall take certain measures or take measures, all economic policy measures. However, development always happens in a concrete meadow. GREENFIELD Investment is on a concrete meadow, not on some meadow that's somewhere above government. It is located in a specific unit of local self-government. This unit of local self-government must ensure the passability of issuing building permits, this unit of local self-government must ensure human potential for this investment. Because today and when, I hope when investors come to Croatia, we will have a big problem because we will need to give additional knowledge to people who are currently at the Employment Office to train them for the work skills needed in these new investments. And it all happens at the level of local self-government. Therefore, if we want to ensure a new development or a new development cycle in Croatia, then we must start from local and regional development. Local and regional development is not managed from the central state but is managed by local and regional development from the level of local self-government. Our problem is that today in a highly centralised state, and Croatia is right behind Greece I have to say, because for example in 2004, the central budget was 84 billion, today it is 122 billion. At the same time, the budgets of the local self-government units in 2004 were 15 billion, and this year there are 22 billion. So in 2004, we had about 63 billion differences, and today we have more than 100 billion differences between what the state spends and what is spent on units of local self-government. And there's our problem, because by political redistribution of local development, we haven't come to investment and creating preconditions where there's growth potential, but we've invested and created preconditions where we have meadows equipped with municipal infrastructure, but we don't have entrepreneurs in these entrepreneurial areas. We have in the state budget schools that we don't even know where meadows are going to be, and on the other hand, we have schools that would be built, and we can't get consent. We have a place where we have students, and we don't have homes, and on the other hand, we're going to build homes where students or students don't exist. Therefore, what the SDP will do, the SDP will go towards doubling funds to local self-government units and from today's 22.23 billion will raise the revenues of local self-government units, create the preconditions that local self-government units have more than 40 billion kunas available to ensure this local development and contribute to Croatia's new development cycle.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63128	Thank you very much. It is up to President Karolina Leaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I cannot support such a proposal for a state budget and I want to actually use the time available to warn about the consequences of this government's policies under the leadership of the HDZ and in cooperation with its coalition partners there is for the development of Croatia and the well-being of its citizens and citizens. The peaceful longer can call this policy the government of the Republic of Croatia an anti-national policy, as the government is doing so yesterday and today will unfortunately be until the next elections, systematically dedicated, as the prime minister says without any remainder and without error work to bring down the foundations of the social state. In doing so, I think of education, health care, social services, access to public or common goods, the pension system for consumer protection. It also deprives people of their right to work, we heard how many unemployed are in Croatia today. The right to participate in decision-making in the distribution of profits and so on. Thanks to this government, many public affairs and public services have actually been privatised, so today you have a large part of the health system, unfortunately a large part of the education system, especially the higher education system, and the pension system in the hands of private capital, and the state is running away with its head, regardless of why and where it leads, to whom such policy benefits and in whose interest it is run. Under the cover of tobacco efficiency or some adjustment to some European trends, we are actually witnessing a new silent wave of public sector privatisation, and all this is widely supported by some media that convince citizens and citizens from day to day that without commercialisation and privatisation of education, health and pension systems, there is no future nor development of Croatia. However, many examples, especially those in the face of the financial and economic crisis in EU countries, say the opposite and say it is not true, but the news is in Croatia or unfortunately reaching the government is obviously slower. Reforms, restructuring are mentioned, and in the Croatian example of reform and restructuring have mostly been a euphemism for mass discharge, for rationalising the scope and quality of services and for reducing the role of the state in creating a framework for the development of society and social and economic. In practice this meant transferring responsibility to individuals and individuals and it's pure termism, because that's how the strongest in this case actually wins the ones who are financially the richest or the richest. The market's ideology and the invisible hands it manages broke down at least two years ago, so the beginning of the major economic and financial crisis, but again it seems to me that the news has not reached the Croatian government. Despite the prime minister's efforts to bring the current deep crisis and the sense of imperceptibility exclusively to the 2008 financial and economic crisis. It is clear to all of us that the election of the crisis that is today rocking Croatia in deregulation of liberalisation in the early 1990s that these processes have spurred non-transparent and immoral privatisation and that the strategic errors of HDZ governments have actually come toll. A social and economic model based on consumption and excessive borrowing has led to the structural crisis of Croatian society and economy, and this crisis has only deepened globally. But this government can't and can't find it. I believe that failed economic policy and unsatisfactory social development should be answered by choosing a new social model based on modern economic development theory and only one new government can do so. This new social and economic order must be based on social solidarity and justice on a social dialogue where social partners participate in the design, application, supervision and evaluation of public policies for the benefit of all. This is not the case now, and the state plays a key role in the development of these processes because the market itself will not allow social inclusion and justice in the distribution of goods or access to common goods. And that is why, in my opinion, we need to get rid of the illusion of the need for deregulation. I advocate a greater role of the state in ensuring economic and social development or creating conditions for the development of the Republic of Croatia. The state is not the source of all evils and all problems. The source is those who used public goods and public funds as if they were private, promoting private interests by extracting profits at the expense of citizens, and such a Croatian citizen policy I am sure in the next election to show the red card. Therefore, given the need to establish a new and long-term sustainable development paradigm, the question of what Croatia really needs to invest in and what we will produce in Croatia and what we will live on and what are the values that we have. I think it's mostly people who want to live and live off their work. Unfortunately, today in Croatia, as we have already heard, there are not about 304, 305 thousand of them in the employment records of the Employment Office that is 11.4% more than at the same time last year, and the Jean is as usual more than men in that office. This government has no employment strategy, no industry development strategy, no regional development, no long-term, prudent and smart investment in education and research and development, while at the same time the EU foresees its development strategies in the next few years to achieve a high employment rate, and a 3% budget in research and development. The HDZ government stands on the other side with the help of its coalition partners, proposing laws that will end public higher education, university and science in Croatia and against which undivided students, professors and scientists have become undivided, because the government wants to commercialise science and higher education to make it almost inaccessible students from socially less potent layers and thus continue the systematic and social separation and destruction of social cohesion and solidarity in Croatia. Finally, and on the trail so far, I would like to emphasise the need to strengthen the state administration and the public sector. And I don't think it's true that these sectors can't be the bearers of Croatia's development. This is quite possible if people in the public sector are wisely invested in education and implement important public policies. Many studies show that public sector employees mean that in kindergartens, schools, hospitals, cultural institutions, there is actually not too much compared to the average in European countries. Too often talk about the ineffectiveness of the public sector, and it is not talked about what has been done to reward public sector workers in an appropriate way as public administration is organised and similar. It is also important to approach this issue in an orderly and objective manner. This is certainly not what this government can do, and because of many other missed and missed opportunities for Croatia, I believe it must stand down.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63130	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63131	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Well, here's when we talk so much today, and mostly without proof, then at least some of those things should be clarified. In fact, if we talk about the budget then we'll say it anyway and we'll agree that this budget is real, although for many, it's a disappointment because there's simply nothing in it pre-election, so even one columnist of the government's disrepute was very, very disappointed because she said there was no sign of a pre-election anything in this budget. In other words, she admitted, it's a big confession, she admitted a real budget adapted to this time, so it's absolutely real. Here we skip all the time, noting only all the problems of this people, that there has been an enormous increase in savings over the last year, a savings that do not normally contribute to budgeting because this contributes to spending, but also to the savings that this government has caused, by giving guarantees to savings on their savings stakes. And who did it well? First of all, the banks went well, the banks are full of money, stable, and should be a little bit more and on their part of the goodwill to go into investment, to boost investment, in such a way as to lower the price of interest rates, and I think the governor would have something to say, because capital is always insecure. What happens with the media and with the opposition, this constant fear, don't invest in Croatia because Croatia is such, Croatia has laid down corruption, Croatia is all the worst that can be said of its own country. We also have several mercenaries who bring it up very extensively and transfer it to any institutions outside of Croatia. So we certainly won't get far with that. But we also have funds, or we have different groups and groups that have a lot of money and that could invest in Croatia, first of all in energy, which is very safe for them, and I think we are working on it, and I believe that the government will also support such projects because there are finally investments, there are jobs and finally, there is also the benefit of becoming energy independent as soon as possible. There's a lot of projects ahead of a building permit. Interestingly, a number of investors came up with a building permit, so before a building permit, that is, before paying units to local self-government, municipalities and cities. And there's one problem, one of the big problems in filling the budget of local self-government units because we're all used to construction, we're used to municipal contributions that are now significantly reduced. But what's comforting is that a whole series of investors are waiting for a more favourable moment that I believe will come quickly and go into investment. If we're talking about debt, and it's stuck on its nose all the time, that debt is still very different than everyone would want to show it here. I think Croatia is very good at quoting countries in the environment. Despite this, we all skip, forget the war, forget the war's consequences, but they're here. A lot of billions are going to go to the war and today, to an increased number of pensioners, disabled people, to build, so to repair all those horrors that happened during the war. However, it does not bother anyone because we were recently compared to Ireland, Slovenia. Today, no one, interestingly, mentions Ireland from the opposition, mentions Slovenia, does not mention Hungary. Today they compare us with Denmark, today they compare us with Sweden. You should watch how much better they are than us. So you can always find someone who's better and will always be better because they had other starting positions, they didn't live in socialism that definitely ended in the '80s destroyed the entire industry. Finally, the industry is in '89. be on your knees and you can all see for yourself if you look a little bit at the agendas. We have quite a number of unemployed, that's for sure, that's a big problem and that problem isn't from today, it's been dragging away for a very long time, but the question is whether we have enough workers who are qualified. In fact, there are a lot of work permits, so for some professions, we just have to start already looking at importing workers, and yet as much schooling as we need, we need to finally encourage people to change their profession. Many people have not changed their profession their whole lives, and they are waiting for a job that is very difficult to come from itself. We're doing a little follow-up, and what you in the opposition are telling us, your measures. Almost no one touches the shipbuilding, no one mentions the shipbuilding. Since the time you've been filling the owner of Victor Lance with cash there from 100 million kunas, so that's the only touch, then any connection to shipbuilding is lost. You swear here and there on behalf of the smugglers, if we're with you, you'll survive because you've told us to hear the last days, you've told us what good you are and you'll survive. So this government has to deal with it at the worst of times. I believe that a good part of the smugglers will survive, but perhaps under other conditions because it is very difficult to explain to people whose tax is taxed that the total salaries of all the workers in the smuggling are below billions of kuna, and what the state gives to billions of kuna. But surely we're all here to survive, to keep the shipyards alive because it's not just them, and so are many others, and that's what's important. We're hearing today that the SDP hasn't been calling the IMF, and we've been seeing what we've been seeing lately, so it would be good if it was already here, it would be good for them to come. Well, normally, it would be very good because in that case people would go out into the streets, normally, we have unionists who have to justify their high wages and supervisory committees and something like that that they have to do. People would go out to the streets, yell, this and that, nothing wrong, down the government, anything like that, and for what? Just so maybe here's our dear opposition somehow comes into power and everything that can't be achieved legally let's try one destructive way to block the country so the worse that's better. Here's yesterday we heard a comparison of our inhabitants to locusts. I think that colleague Pusic has a good experience because a minister from her government acted like a grasshopper, the hour was a minister, the hour was in his companies where several hundred million kunas endowed his company with 7 annexes and so on, and so on and that jumping clearly that he ate both the good part and the budget at the time, and says now he ate, the locusts ate the deficit. Well, we're trying to keep it as low as possible, the deficit, so if the locusts eat it, I don't think it's gonna be too bad. And finally, from tax, let's look at a little bit actually from the budget that's funding everything from this year's budget. So it's not true that the socialist has been killed, that it's not true that she'll feel I don't know how many workers. Unfortunately, it would be good if the salaries went up, it would be good if the pensions went up. But what's impossible is certainly not going. And I don't particularly believe that they're going to feel it, but there's a very good way to make a social case register here and really help those who need it most, so I believe that there's still going to be all of us who know the situation that the whole series here is the mayor, that we're going to help make it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63132	It is up to the distinguished representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63133	Mr. Vice President, Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The 2011 budget, 2013 shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is working on fiscal consolidation, that is to say, to keep state spending under control, while not jeopardising the rights of those who put first all the time and these are Croatian citizens. What do you see it from? It is seen from the fact that in 2011, the Republic of Croatia had to provide 2 billion kuna to finance preparations and reforms for membership in the European Union. All these changes are valuable and long-term with positive effects. But now at the moment of implementation, they have a significant fiscal impact. In addition, an additional 2 billion kuna for interest costs, a growth in pension expenditure of 163 million kuna, a census of 146 million kuna, was to be provided. For all these budgets in 2011, not even June increased compared to the 2010 budget, even decreased. This is proof that the effects of rationalising and reducing budget spending are seen. Of course, it is clear that it is not enough just to control the cost side of the budget. That is why the government is building its strategy and work on three basic pillars – strengthening the economy, fighting corruption and entering the European Union. The measures of the economic programme are the way the government realises these strategic objectives and does it well. We all had opportunities to hear the opening prime minister talking about projects that were launched and moving. It is about billions of investments in energy, water economy, transport infrastructure, environmental protection, etc. It is important to bear in mind that the government is not the only investor and that we need private investment, and we see that we still need to change the awareness of all local units, citizens, associations. As soon as some investor shows up, everyone's holding him back, everyone's trying not to realize the project. That's not how jobs are opened, that's how the economy doesn't move. The 2011-2013 budget with macroeconomic projections shows that Croatia has a good, stable and solid perspective. We are entering a period of growth and with all the changes running, growth will be accelerated year after year. I support the draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63134	Thank you. It is next to the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let's consider starting several irrefutable evidence of the quality of this budget that is repeated here as a mantra. The first evidence is the finding that salaries and pensions will be paid. The fact that salaries and pensions will be paid is proof that the budget is good and that the government is doing well. So, to you citizens who make your work, you create the value of which the wages are paid for both the Prime Minister and Minister Shuker, the tandem says be calm, be calm, your wages will be paid. Retired people, you who have created all the value this country has, with your past work, tell you as the greatest value of this budget to be calm, your pensions will be paid. It's good, it's great, it can't be better, you'll get your pensions. He who, as his greatest value, as his greatest success, cited the payout of earned salaries and pensions said everything about himself. It doesn't make any sense to waste words about them. The second mantra I would like to talk about is the claim that no one is offering anything, that the opposition is only nagging, and that it offers no solution itself. That's not true. Here so far have colleagues Greek, Mršić, colleagues Opačić, many others, many more will speak from our club and everyone who speaks will talk about what SDP has been offering so far and what it offers to you citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For a short period of time, I will warn you citizens of just one of your troubles that we wanted to solve and which we would solve. What's the problem? What's the problem? Loss of work in Croatia can also mean losing a home. You citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been raising loans in banks for the past seven years. You picked up, so you might be fooled, cheated. You have been promised that the standard will be higher, that your wages will be higher, that you will live better. You believed that. You went to the election, you chose those who promised you that, and now you're where you are. Now you've lost your job and you can't repay your loans. Credits are mortgages and banks to ensure that these loans are charged to the credits. An eyewitness is kept in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. It currently has 820 real estates over which it is carried out. Now, if you type into your HGK laptops and go to that real estate witness, you'll be able to make sure that at the moment it's 301 houses, and 68 apartments in the process of performance, 100 more than last year. They're somebody's homes. Decisions on the sale of these properties made only in the last month of each day, each working day, courts decide that 15 families should be left homeless due to non-payments. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce was launched in 2006, and has so far announced the sale of 10 thousand 318 real estate and movables. We warned on this, on the current morning myself on 19.11.2009. Minister Shuker told me not to tell the truth and make it up. On March 7th 2010, this issue was raised by counterpart Mario Habek at the current morning. The prime minister Kosor, who ended up with a cry for Croatia, responded. The citizens of Croatia, the SDP recognized this problem long ago, so on 29 January 2009, almost two years ago, it will be referred to the legal procedure, here it is, the proposal of the Law on the Prolongation of Payments of Residential Loans in 2009 with the final proposal of the law. Proposed Law No 254. Why did we do that? Because two years ago, we saw a problem. Because two years ago we offered a legal solution for you, who are left without your homes, for you, to help you. I don't need to remind you that the bill was rejected. I don't have to tell you that the situation has been getting worse since then, I don't have to tell you because you know it better than I do, to those of you who have lost your homes. I don't have to tell you guys who are on the street today, because you believed, and you were naive, you believed that you could get into loans, that you could try to do something, buy, fix a house, an apartment with that loan, you believed that those who promised you a better life were telling the truth. Who's to blame? And I'm not gonna say that the government is guilty. It is the result of the elections in the last parliamentary elections. It may be the citizens and your result, this relationship with yourself. But here's the example, and there will be more of them, and all my colleagues will talk only about it, we don't talk to the government, we don't even talk to the parliamentary majority, we talk to you, we talk to you, we kill that thesis that we offer nothing, how we only know how to fight here, and how we blame the government. We offer solutions. We offered them, and we'll offer. If the SDP were in power, this law would be in place, and you would be saved from your homes and apartments going to the drum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63136	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, esteemed Ivan Shuker, Vice-President of the Croatian Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues and colleagues, after a very tolerated one, can also say constructive discussions that governs all morning, where each makes its arguments, etc., counterpart Stazic went back to his personal level. And I think I would recommend to you that you not later say that someone is politically stalking you, that you receive in nature which is defined in Article 32(3) of point 5. The Income Tax Act and the Income Tax Regulation shall be examined in accordance with Articles 15 and 16 to see if you have an obligation to the State budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63138	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63139	My colleagues and colleagues, here with this budget, I think it would be a good idea, actually, to be like, when it comes to the most important law a country has ever passed in a year, it might be to use it as an opportunity to discuss both the principles and principles of work, the behaviour of the current government and its visions of possible solutions to the problems facing the country. I agree with the large part of the presentation of my colleagues who have assessed that the budget proposed here is a sort of picture of the country's situation, but that in a great deficit, it is against the needs that Croatian society and the Croatian economy would have as an opportunity to heal and return the whole country to one course that would mean increasing prosperity and above all employment as perhaps the most important goal, because the tasks we can have at all. This budget is afraid of a good picture of all failures, all failures of demagogy, and even irresponsibility which is not only characteristic for the past year, but which marks the way Croatia has managed over the past two decades. Maybe now, as never before, we are actually facing these politically significant deficits that have been given here both a numerical and numerical feature. I would try to explain this in one of the most important segments of this budget, and it is a pension system which as we see absorbed about a third of the total expenditure from the Republic of Croatia which rests on several myths, delusions and some very serious mistakes made in the past. One of the myths on which the absence of any concept and serious resolution of the pension problem that we are here today, but also on other occasions a lot of talk about, is the myth that Croatia has too many pensioners. The second myth is that the government gives and provides pensions and a third myth that pension insurance is too expensive and that the cost of the pension system is too expensive. Why are those myths? Because they became an integral part of the consciousness of a large number of people, and they have no basis in reality or in fact. First, they are not retired, and no country can have extra people or its citizens can be a problem. The problem can only be a government that cannot recognize the interests of citizens and solve their problems. So to do what is its primary and primary task and purpose. Ensure the orderly functioning of society, state and public finances. Only a government that isn't able to declare some of its citizens a problem. I'm simply saying this because it's becoming a bit of an offensive understanding that lies in the basis of this huge calling and calling for the cost of the pension system and how the pensioners are expensive. I would almost say that, in the context of such thinking, one to the evil God hides a simplified negative picture of the pensioners, I guess that everyone like that Izet Fazlinović is a selfish, chubby and grammistic old man who doesn't ask for anything else but to devastate this country and to bite off all the pensions that we normal citizens can't finance here. I stress this picture simply because I think it is rude and politically incorrect at least in any way antagonise certain social groups in this country and also on the trail of this intergenerational, so to speak, problematization. Look at the little portals, so look at the little comments, and you'll see that there is actually this intergenerational conflict that's been produced by stories like this about overpriced pensioners. No, gentlemen, there aren't too many pensioners. There are too many privileged and too many privileges in the pension system. In the '90s, the system served as a waste can, for people with whom there was no idea what was going to be done, which could not be employed, they were pushed into retirement. And that's why it could happen that in the '90s, the number of pensioners from 500 thousand increased to a million. On the other hand, the pension system was a place of privilege. When someone wanted to be privileged, he was a congressman, a fighter, a defender, I don't know a cop, etc., then he was sent by special law to retire. They could have been rewarded by buying them a refrigerator or being sent to Opatija for vacation, but not here was privileged by sending people into retirement. And hence the vast number of pensioners, for among them there are 200 thousand who receive pensions according to special regulations. If all pensioners were to look at each other, meaning old, family and disability pensions that went into retirement under the law, then it would be seen that such pensioners in Croatia were 870,000 or 20.20% of the total population of the Croatian population, which is slightly more than 17% of people over 65 years old. So the system is broken, it is in itself not problematic, the other problem is of course when it comes to disproportionate employees or insurance and pensioners. With a million and 400 thousand employees, of which in the real sector is less than a million or about a million or so, it is not possible to maintain a pension system nor at such a low level as we have in Croatia. It's a myth with which it would be good to clear up so that our pensioners can't or shouldn't consider themselves superfluous or someone who's in excess. Second myth, the government gives pensions. Listen, colleagues and colleagues, in the intergenerational solidarity system, pensions were borrowed in advance, a generation of people who are now receiving pensions earned these pensions by providing then retired people with 80% of their pensions in the amount of 80% of their salary and the best 10 years. The government doesn't give that money, that money is borrowed, and if we look at the Peace Fund, it could exist independently of the state budget as it used to be. It contributes to my salary and, I can see that my lamp is on, my pension system is overpriced. Mistake, error. The peace system costs in Croatia and amounts to somewhere, pension costs are around 10.5%, 10.7 after this GDP drop. It's 11.5% in Europe. If we look at only those who went under the general rule, then it's about 8.73% of GDP. Even so, these expenses are not such that we as a society could not finance them. If you look at those 15 billion that's supposed to be given, then the structure of that is 46%, that means the money from the state budget goes for more favourable pensions, 7.2 billion. 20% goes to finance the second pillar as a transitional cost and 34% goes by the laws that we, including me or us, have provided to correct certain differences, but which are not an integral part of the pensions. What I want to warn citizens about means that they need to be explained what the problem is, how it came about and how we're going to solve it. And in that sense, I have a lack of time to say what the principles are and how it can be done and we know it. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63140	Thank you very much. It is up to the honourable representative, Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think it is very important for Croatian citizens to clarify who has responsibility for creating, proposing and implementing economic policy. In fact, I must appeal to the constitutional provision that it is the Government that is in charge of proposing, creating and implementing, taking care of economic policy. In our case, according to our Constitution, the government has been doing this for 7 years with HDZ, regardless of whether Ivo Sanader, Jadranka Kosor, or both. Any other call for an opposition that really actively proposes to fix this policy is to run away from the responsibility of the current government and the current government. So it doesn't bother the government's opposition to propose the best solutions and to take care of the future of the country and future generations in the Republic of Croatia. And it was yesterday that the prime minister called on her to worry and worry about her government taking care of future generations. And what is this policy and what is that concern, I know that citizens know that, but it's worth repeating more often. Economic policy has been based on credit, borrowing and spending for 7 years and longer with HDZ Prime Minister. And that consumption of non-productive rather than all being expelled through the digestive tract of the state. Such concern for future generations when we know that we have over 45 billion euros in debt and when we know that this year and last year, gross domestic product falls five and two percent in other words when we do not earn but eat our own substance, the government has decided to increase or predict costs by 15 or 18 billion kuna more than it can secure revenue in the state budget. Does that care about future generations? This means that this generation, headed by the government of Jadranka Kosor, will consume from future generations that have neither yet earned nor entered the employment relationship this year 18 billion kuna. If that's the concern for future generations, then it should be said clearly and not called for irresponsible behaviours of an opposition that has no responsibility for proposing. However, many of my colleagues have repeated and should repeat that the opposition led by the SDP has proposed at least 6.7 measures that would facilitate the survival of RS citizens in times of crisis, and this crisis has been co-created by the Croatian government headed by HDZ president. That's what we have to say and act like. We see when there is no change in that policy, so economic policy is based on borrowing and consumption, let's see who benefits from this policy. Well, he certainly doesn't use workers, because using 7 years would change the number of unemployed. We have almost 20 years that the number of unemployed does not go stable below 300 thousand workers and we are talking about care for future generations and care for the state. I'm sure citizens can read what that concern is. Is that good for students, schooling? It doesn't go in their favor either. Does that go in favor of development? Well, it's not working, because we have a drop in investment and production. It's shrinking. So, what is this benefit and concern for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with the proposed budget? Say that pensions and social benefits will be provided, that salaries will be provided to government employees, and on what grounds are colleagues and colleagues provided? Well, on the basis of borrowed somebody else's battery. 15 or 18 billion we'll take foreign money and spend it again. If that's the concern for future generations, then quite certain that the trust of those future generations will quickly fade because they will have to go out of the country. What the Government, despite the warning and despite the opposition's proposal to pass the Payment Law, to pass the Mandatory Pay Law, etc. The government ignores it, then when the water gets to the throat it combines but again in half. Just as proof, here's the graph of how the internal non-payment went. So in 2000, when the SDP-led coalition took responsibility for the state, I repeat responsibility for the state and the conduct of economic policy, there were 27 billion kunas of non-payment of orders within the Republic of Croatia. And it fell, it fell, so again in 2010 in the third month that I could get out of the statistics, there were 29 billion kunas of internal non-payments. And of course, in such a situation you can't talk about the usefulness of production, the usefulness of work, because the uncertainty of the bill is greater than the certainty of that bill. In such a situation, the government is completely irresponsiblely proposing a budget and asking the opposition to find measures to resolve the matter differently. The government has been given a mandate, has been given the obligation to take care of the future, to bring solutions and to answer for them. Avoiding that responsibility is irresponsible. And speaking of which, can it be expected from the party and the government that created the conversion and privatisation, which is '93. the years created such a policy of borrowing and importing and consumption, to change that policy. He can't, because this government and this party are trapped with these relationships that she herself created. It can't be expected, so then it would be good for the Prime Minister to explain here the circumstances in which Croatia is located not to talk about a matter that is not her concern, such as Holding, and ignores the situation that shakes the whole of Croatia, which is shipyards. None of the words in the budget spoke about shipyards, and one of the conditions for entry into the European Union is a solution to shipbuilding status. Well then, on the amount of this irresponsibility, let the citizens judge in accordance with our order, which is that the government has been currently responsible for creating, proposing and implementing economic policy, which is this government for seven years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63142	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63143	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Honored State Secretary. I point out immediately at the outset that since 2004, the state budget management processes have been significantly improved and that all budgetary revenues and payments have been centralised, through a single State Treasury account, that the methodology for the implementation of the state budget is improved and implemented in line with the needs of monitoring according to funding sources, that budgetary analyses and estimates of the fiscal impact of the laws and regulations on the budget have been introduced, that a multi-annual budgetary framework has been introduced and because of fiscal risk control, that strategic and programme planning has been introduced, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is bringing forward three-year strategies of the Government's programmes, and for each programme, the objectives, indicators, indicators of success and responsibility for meeting the objectives. The strategic plans represent the input elements on which the Government Programme Strategy for 2011 to 2013 was also developed, ensuring the continuity of the implementation of the strategic objectives set out in the first strategy. The strategic plan therefore defines the course of action of the ministries and other state bodies, while the budget defines the programmes, activities and projects and provides the means necessary to implement them. It is precisely because of this need to connect strategic and budgetary planning that has contributed to improving the programming and organisational classification as seen in the structure of this 2011 National Budget Proposal, as well as the Government Budget projections for 2012 and 2013. Therefore, the strategic planning process introduced by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2009 and by linking it to programme and multi-annual budget planning ensures that budget allocations are made to precisely those objectives that will have the greatest impact in priority areas. Here I will continue my debate to try to connect strategic planning and budget items related to tourism, but also to Croatian islands and demining. So, as far as tourism is concerned, there is an increase in the amount provided for 2011, meaning increased by 5.7% and precisely going to those areas aimed at developing Croatian tourism, which is to remind me to ensure the long-term positive effects, to make the sustainable use of natural and cultural historical potentials active in their preservation and development, but also to create a better climate for investors and of course, which is more effective by promoting tourism. In the programme classification of the Ministry of Tourism, we have old ones, but we have new programs, and I will only list what all the funds are provided for in the budget of the Ministry of Tourism. So 8 million kuna is provided for restoration, valorisation, revitalisation of cultural and traditional and natural heritage, to increase the competitiveness of the tourist product 6, to encourage the success of 44.4 million kuna, for new tourist products and destination management, for selective forms of tourism, for promoting the placement of organic products, for training people in tourism, for increasing the safety of tourists, and for promoting the original Croatian tourist souvenirs. Through the Programme to encourage the development of the tourism sector, it wants to ensure a high level of quality in all segments and thus strengthen the segment of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and by extending the tourist offer to affirm, meaning other than already affirmed coastal and continental tourism, but also Dalmatian hinterland and islands. As far as Croatian islands are concerned, the aim is to enable programmes that will improve living conditions on Croatian islands and in the coast to remain and return residents, as well as demographic, social, economic development and progress in these areas. This is precisely the goal of ensuring that the following items and certain resources are provided. So, for the Programme of economic activities on the islands and coast, 7.2 million kuna is provided, for the Croatian island product, which is an exceptional programme, 220 thousand kuna is provided, and this also promotes development, protection, promotion, raising the quality of the original traditional, ecological production. The labelling of these products has also been introduced to allow recognition and better placing on the market. Support for island employers is also granted through the promotion of a decisive economy, means that companies based on the island enables the liquidity of island private entrepreneurship and the creation of a positive climate for the preservation and creation of new jobs, as well as the employment of locals. For projects to promote municipal and social infrastructure on islands and in coastal areas, this proposal provides 122.7 million kuna for construction of municipal and social infrastructure facilities, means through the CEP4 programme through the Integrated Development of the local community in the coast, through development projects of islands and coastal areas and through the Social Care Programme for which 41.3 million kuna is provided. 26 million kuna has been provided to promote island public transport. For programmes, therefore prevention, eviction of the island's population, an additional €41.3 million has been provided for free public island and road transport, which I will recall will be used by students, students, pensioners. But it is also provided to subsidize drinking water delivered to the islanders and to supply energy. So, ingested oil gas, which the islanders receive under the same conditions as the inhabitants on land. I'll also mention demining because it's the area I've been tracking. Here is the demining budget remained at the level of last year, but he, this budget also provides a reduction of the mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia by 42, 43 km square area, and that means creating better safety for the population living in the environment of mine suspected, environment of mines. But it also ensures the demining of significant agricultural areas as sources of existence for the same population. I'm glad it's in the program here and the agricultural surface of Zadar County will finally be solved, finally being solved means in the following year. This budget for CROMAC also ensures maintenance of the markings, but also assistance for mine victims. Here I hope that I have managed to show how the strategic objectives are connected and what are the links to this draft budget for the next period. So, you can see this connection between strategic planning and budget, and through these projects from the Zadar County area, which are, of course, part of government programs, and therefore they have secured their place in the 2011 budget, I will only list that despite both savings and recession projects continue, perhaps at a slightly weaker pace and these projects of irrigation, water supply, sea protection, project Jadran, Lučka Administration of Zadar, Gaženica, Channel Mali Ždrelac, but also scholarships of students and students. And here in the end I'll just, I'd like to take a closer look at maybe some SDP presentations, so here's Mrs. Opacic speaking a big part of her speech about the need to introduce order into the state budget, and she's at the expense of that same budget, along with her colleague Stazic, flying on Brijuni, and I guess that's how she contributes to what she's been talking about active job opening policy in Istria because she used data just from Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63144	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a lot being said about the 2011 budget plan, so I'm going to tax-count what I think is most important, most characteristic of next year's budget, and also briefly in the second part of my presentation, I'm going to look back at the presentations of my colleagues from the SDP because we don't have replicas and corrections of the allegations. This is given the election year that should still be some pre-election budget, but with all these restrictions, conclusions, decisions we made before the budget itself, and I believe the next week when we adopt this budget will be clear and clear that this is not a pre-election budget, that this is one real budget in line with the current situation in the Republic of Croatia, with the opportunities of the economy, the standard of living in the Republic of Croatia. It is important to say that they have been stopped, that budget expenditure growth has been halted. We also concluded that they were planned in 2011 at exactly the level of even slightly less than in 2010 with a total of 122 total three billion kuna. The planned revenues are 107 billion and 400 million kuna, which gives us a 14 billion and 900 million kuna deficit. Of course, the government is planning a debt to cover the deficit, but the total debt is higher by some 9 billion planned because of the need to return from those 9 billion and liabilities on some old loans there and from the beginning of two thousand years. It is important and important to say for this budget that the planned funds show that there is no reduction in pensions, there are no painful cuts that some other parties wanted here in the Croatian Parliament, representatives of other parties. So our pensioners have the means to pay their pensions in 2011. The same applies to salaries secured in the budget and financed by the budget of the Republic of Croatia. The allocations for social programmes that the government guarantees on the items in the budget and the entrepreneurship allocations are also at the level of 2010. I repeat all this with a minimum deficit below the average of 25 EU member states of only 4.3%. Here in this second part of my presentation, I will skip what I was going to say, but I think we should also look at the presentation of fellow Stazic, and also at the presentation of my colleagues Vidovic in at least one part, so I will take the opportunity to touch here's first exposure of fellow Stazic who spent literally ten minutes of his exposure to try, without any arguments, to convince the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that they have wrongly voted here for two mandates, gave confidence to the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the head of the Croatian Democratic Community, that this government is guilty of citizens' loans, of interest, of mortgages and literally for all the problems that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia have today. It's not literally anyone else's fault, it's the government of Jadranka Kosor. Of course, that is not true, and I don't think it should be explained to citizens in particular. It is difficult to change the opinion of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia today, because they remember very well, obviously very well, and will not forget the governments of the SDP for three, four years since 2000, all of what they experienced during the SDP authorities, wage cuts, pension payout problems, non-reimbursement of pension debt, police strikes, doctors, medical staff and all other structures that depended on the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And it is not worth it now to try to change the thinking of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because it is obvious that memory still serves them very well and that it will almost forget the rule of the SDP from the beginning of this century. Furthermore, in his presentation, counterpart Vidovic said that pensioners are the problem of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that this is clear from the 2011 budget. It's a little weird, because until yesterday, they and their colleagues from the SDP were out loud seeking painful cuts for the budget and for 2010 in rebalances that were also in the 2011 Budget, and we know that these painful cuts would first touch the pensioners, their pensions and salaries of employees in the Republic of Croatia, and today they transfer the ball to the courtyard of the Croatian Democratic Community, the Government of Croatia and say that the pensioners are our problem. On the contrary, Croatian pensioners know very well how they lived during the rule of the SDP and who finally initiated the procedure of returning pensioners to their well-deserved pensions. It is well known when the retirement procedure has been initiated, and that the government has been paying the SDP's pensions neatly during its term of office for the last seven years, not even trying to pay back to the pensioners, the popular pension debt. I think the pensioners also serve their memory well and will not forget who did what during the term of office. Especially from the presentation of counterpart Vidovic, it is evident that the special burden on his Croatia is pensioners who make pensions according to special regulations. I remind you that in this particular group of pensioners who make pensions according to special regulations, they are in the largest number of Croatian war and military invalids from the Homeland War. From the presentation of colleagues Vidovic, who is trying to impose here us and the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, it turns out that Croatian wartime disabled persons are the biggest problem today in the Republic of Croatia with their pensions received from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Well, dear fellow, I'm sorry you're not here, but quite the opposite. From the 2010 budget and all these past 7 years, so thank God and this not easy 2011 budget in 2011 it is clear that pensioners are exercising their rights, that pensions are secured and so are pensions in the first place for Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War, for people who are responsible for us sitting here today in the Parliament, that is, regardless of the pains of groins, but their wages are regularly earned by those who are not obviously here with you or with us because of these health problems. And we're just in the opposite positions. The government of the Republic of Croatia towards the victims of the Homeland War, according to the Croatian military disabled, continues to have a special feeling, a special relationship, and this is visible from the insurance funds in the 2011 budget, and I will not remind these boys and Croatian defenders again what status they had during the SDP rule in the Republic of Croatia. Here is because time allows me to say a little bit about the thesis imposed here by a small regional party, about the maternal relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards Slavonia and Baranja, and I would add to Western Srijem. On the contrary. We who come from the field from certain counties know, I repeat and confirm here, I come from Požega-Slavon County, all units of local self-government that have good programs, which run in the Republic of Croatia's resolution ministries, make certain funds, go forward, unfortunately there are units that are headed by SDP with their co-workers and that have no communication or run for the budget of the Republic of Croatia, so normally they do not even participate in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, for example the largest city in our county, the city of Požega is in this situation, in all others, and in the whole county, through decentralised funds are visible increased investments from year to year, in primary school, in secondary school, in higher education, in capital investments in these portfolios, in pre-school education through European Investment Bank programmes, visible investments in Croatian roads are visible to the Croatian roads in the region of health care, in our local hospitals, in the region of health care, in the hospital, in the city of Croatia and in the city of Croatia. I'm taking the opportunity to transmit good signals and reactions from the field, because people appreciate this help they receive from the state budget, but to get help they need to monitor the programmes of ministries, public institutions, state firms, run and then there's no problem with achieving certain funds. And those who will not, unfortunately, receive no money. For all this, I support the 2011 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63146	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63147	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. co-worker from Požega-Slavon County, indeed Slavonian people do not know what they would do out of happiness, in Slavonia of so much help, helping this Government of the Republic of Croatia invests, not only this but also the previous and that of your great leader government, but in fact the same, and therefore Slavonian County of Brod-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska, Požeko-Slavonska and Virovitičko-Podravska in the last place according to all indicators of economic, economic, unemployment, etc. Thank you so much to this government for caring so much about Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63148	Answer, Mr. Hushka. Thank you... My colleague certainly knows and at least I hope he knows that unfortunately this very county in the Croatian mainland suffered the greatest damage in the Homeland War. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] No destruction, no housing I'll tell you in my Pakrac did not go unscathed in the Homeland War. If the funds invested after the Homeland War were invested in local self-government units in our county, at least 20% of that amount today would be small Austria. Unfortunately, we're dealing with rebuilding, restoring war damage, demining, investing in what's been done by someone else. I believe that you, as a patriot local, have nothing against investment yourself, and in the Istrian ipsion, and in Dalmatia that goes towards Dubrovnik and into the bridge that goes towards the Peljesac peninsula and that we can be happy with these investments in Croatia, and I am telling you, come here, every time I invite you to Pakrac, to Požega-Slavon County and you will see how much the Government of the Republic of Croatia invests in those parts of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63150	Thank you. It's Mrs. Mirela Holly's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63151	Thank you, Your Honor. In order for a country to be self-sufficient and self-sustainable, it is necessary for all its citizens and citizens to provide sufficient quantities of clean and healthy proper water, quality food and sufficient energy. These three resources are key to each country, and unless we want to rely in these three key strategic areas on other countries, and on turbulent geopolitical movements, the government is obliged to do everything in its power to ensure sufficient production or protection of these resources. This budget has shown that the government does not do so and that Croatian citizens and citizens cannot be sure and sure that they will have sufficient quantities of quality water, food and energy in the future. This means that the government has absolutely no vision of the strategic self-sustaining development of Croatia. It is evident that the government hopes that someone else, in particular the EU, will solve all our problems, but will not. The European Union is an interesting community and every member of that community is as strong as it manages to fight for its interests. So far, so-called. The negotiations between Croatia and the EU show that the government is unable to fight for nothing, neither for the restructuring of the shipyard, nor for the ZERP, nor for any strategic interest of Croatia. With infidelity yesterday, at a meeting of the Environmental Protection Committee, I heard that the government was unable to provide the Environment Protection Agency with some 18 million kunas that would hardly be sufficient for the normal functioning of this in terms of environmental protection of an extremely important institution. I would like to remind you that the 2009 budget envisioned an increase in the funding of this agency by more than 40% due to the commitments arising from the negotiations with the EU. At that time, it is also said that new employment is necessary in this agency, and today the Ministry of Environment is unable to find some 3.5 million kuna for this agency. Nor did the extremely wealthy Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which provides for a surplus of around 25 million kuna for next year, consider it necessary to assist this agency, approve the funding of environmental protection information projects, which is otherwise a key project in terms of environmental protection, which this agency has applied over the past years towards the Fund. The main thing is that the fund had just over 4 million kunas for the award of HDZ to a friendly company FIMI Media that probably couldn't even dream of the publicity it enjoys today. And it doesn't have to be like that. It is unfortunate that environmental protection projects in Croatia are not used as a driver for development, a new development direction, but environmental protection projects financed mainly by the Environment Fund are used to finance HDZ and their coalition partners, friendly companies, or clients. In my previous discussions on previous budgets, I have already said a lot, but the thick skin of the ruling furniture is just impenetrable. In the SDP, we believe that it can be different and that the budget can and must maintain a strategic vision of Croatia's new, better and self-sustainable development. How? Instead of going to quiet privatization of water resources, and what will happen to us if we adopt changes to the Water Act that we have just received today in our boxes, SDP advocates maximum protection of water resources as a key strategic resource for Croatia. Today in Croatia, unfortunately, we witness the uncontrolled exploitation of groundwater and drinking water, and we generally treat Croatia's high-quality water as raw materials rather than as a final high-quality bottled product that would eventually allow the construction of Croatia's image as a H2O brand. Other aspects of water resource management not to speak. The water sector lacks an integrated approach. The successful management and management of water resources primarily involves the implementation of active and passive water protection measures, such as the planned exploitation of water and space, the control of the use of various substances by industrial branches, but we should especially insist on the unsustainable implementation of passive water protection measures such as the construction of sewage networks systems and associated waste water treatment devices because the situation in this sector is disastrously bad in Croatia. It is unacceptable that only 43% of the Croatian population are connected to the sewerage network in Croatia, and only 64% of those connected to the sewer system have a system to clean up waste water. Of the total construction of slightly more than 100 treatment devices, only one device has a third degree treatment of waste water. When comparing these data with those from neighbouring countries, we must be ashamed because we cannot consider ourselves part of developed Europe in this area. When we talk about food production as a second strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, the situation is catastrophic because year after year we witness an increase in subsidies for agriculture, while at the same time producing less but unfortunately not more quality food. That's what I recently talked about under the new Environmental Production Act. Although for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, organic agriculture is reportedly in the strategic interest and some kind of priority practice we do not have any indication of the introduction of the network at the end of 2010. "green kiosks" which would link production, distribution and sales of these extremely important products to Croatia. Unfortunately, the government is not considering yet another huge potential to increase organic agriculture, and these are huge agricultural areas in state-owned property that can be managed more wisely and sustainablely. How? So that the State examines where it is possible for organic food production to be owned by agricultural areas and that, when awarding concessions on those land, it makes it a criterion to make such production compulsory. Instead of volunteering and volunteering in the field of organic agriculture as a strategic branch of the development of the Republic of Croatia, an element of state interventionism should be introduced and, therefore, in a much shorter period than the shameful 1.3% of the ecological area would have 10% of such areas. In the SDP, we also believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should make a strategy of such production with a concrete map of Croatia where such production is possible and where the state is willing to support such production through more favourable terms of lease or concession, different types of subsidies, etc. And as long as we don't have such elaborate measures, we're going to have this embarrassing situation, which is 1.3% of the agricultural area under organic farming. But most of all, in terms of the launch of a new development cycle, Croatia can be done through energy, or the promotion of renewable energy sources. Green energy for Croatia means not only a step closer to Croatia's energy self-sufficiency but also the launch of Croatia's economic recovery. This is possible, of course, if the Government is wise, and unfortunately this Government is not, if the Government would pass a law on renewable energy sources in which it would be said that the implementation of such projects must be conditioned by the 70% use of domestic technologies and resources, we would have a new development cycle. Instead of having our pre-named construction industry constantly spinning around building non-productive new housing facilities, mega shopping centres or underground garages could be engaged precisely in the construction of renewable energy facilities. We also have the necessary experts and experts and the necessary industry. There are Rade Končar, Đuro Đaković, shipyards that could actively participate in the realization of such projects and create a new self-sufficient value in Croatia. The government persistently insists on the alleged commercial default of these energy sources, or high electricity prices. However, these projects should be seen significantly wider as engines of new development in Croatia that accumulate numerous benefits for Croatia, not just through the price of kilowatt hours. Shipyards can also be engines of the development of Croatia if they start to produce high value ships on the market, ships that are requested, such as ships loaders for wind power plants, LNG and SNG ships, ships for the transport of asphaltes and the like. The question arises why the Government, as the owner of the shipyard, did nothing according to the restructuring plan that would go exactly that way, towards the production of ships with added value. It's not true there's no money. There's money and there'd be money if you could see the direction of development. Unfortunately, from this budget, but also everything this government has done in the past 3 years since it has been clear to the sparrows on the branch that Croatia is sinking in the crisis, it cannot be seen. And because of that, every day of this government is an immeasurable loss for this country that turns into an addictive, inefficient state without any vision.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63152	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63153	Dear and especially esteemed colleague Holly, you spoke of the vision above all and ended with the word of visions of your presentation. Namely, the vision is only the predecessor of the concept and then the strategy. It is in these resources or treasures that Croatia has, and it is quite clear to all and also to the World Bank, as well as to all foreign partners and friends of Croatia, it is food, it is water, it is energy, it is the rights of the wealth of the regions from which I come and which I represent, and even the forests. And that's especially connected to that green energy that you spoke of and that I agree with as much as you do. However, when you were talking about healthy water, about large reserves of drinking water, it would be good to know how much by selling it, by protracting INA, I won't talk about who's responsible, there was a parliamentary commission on it, hearing witnesses, how many underground wells and water sources fell into the hands or ownership of a Hungarian partner or MOL, and how much did it actually remain owned by the Republic of Croatia and its citizens? Imports of food, and you were talking about food really exceeds every measure, and it actually destroyed domestic agricultural production, both standard and organic, which is 1.29% of the area under organic production. And in fact, you said well, there is no vision, and in the vision arises a concept of the development of a better Croatia and a strategy that could then spend all of it in a relatively short time so that at least this generation of citizens of the Republic of Croatia will suffer what they suffer, at least that our children and grandchildren live in a better Croatia than this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63154	Mrs. Mirela Holly's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63155	Dear fellow Grubisic, I am very pleased to hear this presentation or replica of my presentation, because it shows that the solutions are actually quite clear and that there is a lot of harmony between what is so-called. The right and the so-called the left/between conservative and progressive parties. That is why, with all this in mind, and given that HDZ and their partners like to be represented as some kind of conservative or centrist government, I do not understand why none of these solutions apply. Since I'm saying this isn't about some kind of value, so to speak of things, about some things pushing more progressive parties, solutions are pretty clear and transparent and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63156	Mr. Boro Grubisic's injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63157	Dear colleague Holly, as per article 209 you called us, it seems to me my party to the right party or right option, and I didn't talk about it in my replica. So, from the ignorance of our program that's more social than your SDPs, you've misstated it. And as for the general national interests, we're more to the right than all of you here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63158	... There's no injury to the Businessman. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] On behalf of the proposed State Secretary, Mr. Zdravko Krmek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63159	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. For the sake of information, here's what it means for the exact information that's in this act that you've got on your desk, in the proposal for a national budget for next year, here's what I'd like to say exactly, actually means about water supply or water supply compared to 2010 increased investment by 9%, as far as water protection is concerned, by 29%. Why am I saying that? I am speaking for reasons because we are really concerned with this very important detail, that we have also planned 200 million kuna from EU funds in the coming year, i.e. specifically from the IPE, i.e. ISPA. These are significant investments, and I would like to point out in particular that both the town of Slavonski Brod and the town of Knin, and the town of Drnis soon and the city of Sisak will receive a grant amount of EU funds in this year and in 2011. However, I would like to add something else that is important here and what is seen through the financial plan of the Croatian Waters that you also received in your materials. And this is that a few days ago, the Croatian government made a decision on a guarantee for a billion kuna in water projects, especially water supply and water protection, and also protection against the harmful effects of water, i.e. related to flood defence. Why does it matter? It's because these billions of kunas go directly to the economy. So that's the amount of money that's going to be allocated to work that's already under way and that's going to be directly helped by all those who are doing construction work on water supply, water protection, water protection, this billion kuna is going to be a direct aid to them. Here I think it was necessary to say and point out. So as for water protection, as far as water supply is concerned, we've been keeping an eye on what's been happening to us this year that we've had a lot of flood damage. So here we were making sure that the amount of money related to these activities was much, much larger in the next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63160	Thank you. Before further notice, perhaps, namely how we will proceed. I think we could finish the budget debate today, although we are discouraged by this number of people still reported, but we will be resilient. Second, by tomorrow, by 12 o'clock, the amendments can be submitted, so who hasn't arrived today can tomorrow. Third, we would continue the session Monday at 10:30 p.m. after the committees discuss these new agenda points. We will go mostly on this proposed agenda, and we expect a vote on the budget Tuesday. We'll obviously be working here all week. We've got over 40 agenda points left. Here comes Madam Representative and Vice President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63161	Thank you very much. What I would like to say in my debate seems to me that in a good way it will be related to the debate that my colleague Mirela Holly had just concluded. I think that speaking of the potential development potential of Croatia, she pointed out what our criticism of the current HDZ government, what our continued criticism and what we pointed to, and what was heard, that it was used, could greatly change today's situation and the zero position from which the Government is going to adopt the 2011 budget. In fact, today, at the very beginning of the discussion of counterpart Maric, by replicating our colleague, Greece, said that we should respect the real structure of the Croatian economy, which, of course, depends on the structure of the budget itself. He also mentioned that fiscal capacities are not built overnight and, of course, my colleague Maric is right and, of course, the structure of the Croatian economy must be respected in the structure of the budget and it is true that these fiscal capacities or the revenue side of the budget cannot be built overnight. However, we in the SDP have indeed been warning, in continuity for years, that the Croatian budget cannot, on the basis of what is borrowed abroad, finance what is currently being said as a major achievement and the most important result that will result from this proposed budget. The main message of the Prime Minister is this: the proposed budget tells citizens that they will receive salaries, pensions, social assistance, and Croatia will serve its obligations neatly. Since the deficit is growing, since the debt of the country's highest state or the state's rope abroad is growing, it is definitely clear and complete lay to be borrowed from or brought into a situation during the years, not overnight, to finance pensions, salaries, employment in the public sector, and as the next repayment of increasing and larger debts to the state. I think that is the point where there is a major difference between the policy, the development policy proposed by today's Croatian government and what we, on this side of the opposition, offer as an alternative. We cannot accept, we cannot be satisfied that the Government is good if, you can imagine, it meets that minimum and minimum to pay for pensions, salaries of public sector employees and that, in a minimal way, without any progress, without any development, without any progress, the minimum costs of all those connected to the country are financed. If we want to talk about resolving the economic crisis, if we want to talk about greater employment, then I guess it is clear to everyone that investment in the economy must be ensured. It seems to me through these discussions that have come from the ruling majority to point to the items of the budget that are eliciting some kind of investment in the economy. Earlier, the State Secretary pointed to a budget item to be used to improve the situation in the water economy. But you also have to understand that it's not enough, it's some kind of minimum that keeps us in a zero position and that in perspective provides us with a stagnation in terms of competitiveness with our environment. That's not enough. The government must lead an active policy towards the economic sector, not only by financing certain items or by subsidising certain items of a branch but also by dissipating the economy in general long-term and planned terms and ensuring that it creates these new jobs, not by state interventionism, but by its own strength, productivity growth, new technologies. If in the future jobs of those who are jobless today depend really only on the budget, which is the result of your policy then believe these 100,000 who lost jobs in the previous period in the real sector or in the economy, in private companies, in those companies dealing with creating new values, then the perspective is an increased new number of job losses. We cannot, nor can the Croatian Government be satisfied with the fact that it will preserve the number of employees in the public sector in a way that leaves them alone, that it does not even require increased efficiency, that it does not require the removal of various barriers that come from not only excessive norms but from their indolence, the indolence of those who need to be at the service of the economy. We're not going to move, and you know it, we're not going to move unless the structure of the budget is changed, which will be motivated by many policies that this government is simply afraid of, it's afraid to move. I'm going to remind you of the first year of this government and the policy you had according to the government budget deficit. You were chasing a zero deficit during the progression period, during the period when it was favourable to borrow and invest those money in economic growth and development and today when you go into an increased deficit, because you have to go to that deficit because from that deficit you de facto finance that minimum, today you are silent about it, today it is quite clear that the policy of pursuing a zero deficit for Croatia and its development needs and potentials, strengthening these potentials was guilty. Today when it is unfavourable to be in debt, today when we have spent everything we have, today we are growing the deficit, but not as a consequence of the planned system policy but as a consequence of having come to the wall, and now when we put it in context, which can be done in these conditions in today's budget, he said at the beginning of the debate of fellow Greeks, you don't need to change that structure for 10 or 20 billion, but let's do a restructuring of these budget expenditures, let's do it for 3 billion this year, we have to start. You can't wait all the time to spend the last substance we have. And finally, I will remind you of another important element that can stimulate economic development and new investment in the economy. In fact, state investment, state expenditure can also be used as a development measure. That's what my colleague Holly was talking about right now. Speaking of ecological opportunities and our comparative advantages, I'm going to mention some other areas. Energy, not only renewable sources, but energy in the full sense, irrigation, every state investment in school, hospital, military, in various IT needs can be an incentive measure for the development of the economy, not in a way that domestic companies have protection, but simply in a way that we systematically negotiate, that they know what they are preparing for, that they know what the needs of the state will finance and that in this sense they adapt their production and what they offer as their own service. In such a way as to be competitive, so to be equal, and to avoid what has been a practice so far, which is that it preferred to buy, for example when we talk about information from large multinational companies, regardless of what we have great potentials, to give our own industry a chance, our own IT industry, our own textile industry, our own leather industry, our own wood industry and its own industries, to be those who will deliver their own goods and thus make room for their own development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63162	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63163	My colleague Antunović, Vice-President of the Parliament, you are not even aware of how pleased I am to have your debate and debate with my colleague, Holly, who is leaning on each other. Namely, economic recovery measures, visions, concepts and implementation of this strategy, and in terms of resources, the wealth that Croatia has, in addition to irrigation, in terms of food production, then water, energy of any form, and species or energy, then what I said to the forest, then tourism, not only marine but continental, would then lead to investments in them, would lead to the achievement, the creation of excess value, or to the increase of that item of income in the budget, which is problematic and resulting in a deficit because expenditures are frozen at 122 billion kuna. I am pleased that all these treasures, all of these resources have a large part of Croatia, but in particular Slavonia and Baranja, this would trigger a process in which Slavonia and Baranja would be Croatia's locomotives, not the last car as they are now with this policy of the ruling. Furthermore, you said that fiscal capacity is not built overnight, but does not collapse overnight, so these 4 Slavonian counties are certainly not overnight the weakest fiscal capacities but for 20 years in the Republic of Croatia are at the bottom of the fiscal capacity scale of Croatian counties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63164	Answer, Mrs. Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63165	Of course, to agree with what you've been saying and especially with that that fiscal capacity doesn't collapse overnight, I've tried to explain in this debate how this fiscal capacity has collapsed. At the same time, the state's unwillingness to truly co-operate with the private, economic sector in terms of its own development. Creating those conditions that from the newly created value, from the new salaries to finance development needs, then we wouldn't have to go into this increased borrowing, we wouldn't have to go to the deficits, into a whole series of things that will make us even harder to hit the head tomorrow. To illustrate, when the state started to build roads, we systematically and planly built construction, a construction industry specialising in road construction. Unfortunately, because of the later relationship to the construction industry that lived very well in corruption and abuses in the road to their true quality, their productivity and comparative advantage did not force them to go to foreign markets but rather lost. We must not make the same mistake, I think there are other industries that can be in such a good relationship between state investment and state investment and state expenditure in a budget that can grow and that can ensure that new places can be created and wages financing in the public sector, pensions, etc. But, of course, the reduction in the number of unemployed but also the increase of jobs in the real sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63166	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It's Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63167	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This is an atypical budget debate. Nor ruling him with as much passion as the usual defenses, nor the opposition with as much passion as the usual attacks. In fact, it shows mutual awareness of the situation. Neither by ruling in their defence budget say that next year we will be well, but mostly compare with the situation from 2000 to 2003, and neither the opposition's representatives except for the rare exceptions something excessive about the individual items require an increase or reduction for their end, their county, the region because they are aware that this is actually one I would call the losing budget of the government that the citizens signed a month ago, which, by this budget, wrote itself off for the next elections. This is in fact a budget that will allow the easiest defeat of ruling parties in the next election, counting that the state of the country will be such that those who come after them will not stand a chance, so that they will return. And that's why they didn't even decide to take any kind of risk to try to change something from these trends that are happening in the country. The 2011 budget is approximately the one for 2010 and 2009 since the crisis. The 2011 budget does not have within it as it did not have one for 2010 some excessively large instrument from the Economic Recovery Programme of this government, with many of these measures remaining with me on paper. There is no around this budget, not even great tension, because the biggest one was whether we were going to let one MP who had the right to do so in the elections into the Parliament before the budget was passed or after the budget was voted. The greatest tension was in fact here whether one of the representatives who returned his former colleagues would be able to watch and talk to him and drink coffee. It's mostly the most important news from here. It's also logical, so on what program is this government currently running? There is a coalition programme that was negotiated after the 2007 elections, the coalition agreement that we received at the beginning of this calls for, and the best illustration of how this programme is being realized and where this programme came into place lies in the fact that it is the guardian of the coalition agreement and the programme. If you do not remember his name is Damir Polancec and about his political status testifys in fact and what is the implementation status of this coalition government programme for 2008 to 2011. It's getting less and less clear here. The ruling coalition, i.e. the largest ruling party, wants to retain the status quo, try to get to the polls like this. If something important changes and improves in the world, they may achieve some result and then, with some concluded majority, remain in power, and if nothing changes, to those who come after. He's going to have some trouble running the country. The opposition, however, does not even like such a situation for the government and the state. It proposes laws that some even adopt, not by those proposings, but in some similar form after a few months, after a year, so when it turns out that these solutions were necessary. These smaller coalition partners are trying, of course, to gain some money by their declarative dissatisfaction, with the state of the country to convince their voters that they are doing something for them, to calculate that if they need to do so after the next elections they can catch up to this other coalition that is and therefore all together lead the country in a rather irresponsible way. The brave government would either try to change something or at the beginning of this year when, in fact, at least the prime minister's rating was at the highest level, it would call the elections and at least win, if it beat them, the legitimacy for change and reform. And in this way, we're left with a dentist standing in a chair, waiting for the pain to go away, and maybe something's better next time. However, little because of solidarity with the largest party in Parliament, we may need to ask ourselves whether we should increase the item to finance political parties in the next budget because the sources of funding of the Croatian democratic community as they have so far been a little dry, so that it should not happen again that there is not enough money for the presidential elections for the campaign, and until then the Croatian citizens are left to be a little patient because this ship has obviously lost both motors and everything else that drives it and is left alone floating in the wind for which it hopes to somehow lead it into a peaceful port. He won't. 12% of citizens trust this government, 88% do not believe and this budget will further reduce this number. Of course I won't vote for a budget like this, and I'm sorry that we even came into this situation to vote on the 2011 budget. But let it be the responsibility of not even HDZ but more of their coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63168	Thank you. Let's move on to the debate. Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalić. Here you go. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63169	Mr. President, here's me on the budget. Namely, I would, I wouldn't repeat everything my predecessors said. I might say a few words on the other side. In fact, these days in the media we can read the inscriptions of leaders on the left-hand side stories all those MPs who will raise their hands for this budget to work against the people. So the next story was also the story of some of the laws that were passed here. All those MPs who are going to vote for this or in one not democratic way, and then the HDZ story has more in a non-democracy way, and then the HDZ story has more hands in the air and that's not democracy. That's exactly what democracy is. Look, I don't know as a member of the ruling party and a parliamentary representative whose draft budget I should vote for. And I consider myself whether I am, if someone doesn't fit on your part, the enemy of their people and if I am working against Croatia because I will vote for that budget. Anyway, I'll support that budget for a number of reasons. This government, now listen to me very well, this government has given me, as the head of a small municipality, a million square meters of land that this five thousand-year-old municipality had a budget of over 70 million in a row. This government has been investing everything that has helped our municipality, and many other municipalities in Croatia, and in particular I have invested over the past 3 years more than a billion kunas in our zone. About a thousand people have been employed. You see, if we were then, and even before you were in power in 2000, I was in charge at the time, I must say that I had the support of your ministers back then, but we had projects, we had programs, we knew what we were doing, and we had support. I also say we had support from this government that made concrete moves. The free zone of Varazdin only functioned when HDZ and Prime Minister Sanader came to the head of the state when he held his first meeting in Varazdin, all you talked about there for 3 years he promised to do so at the first meeting, and today there is a free zone where about 4 thousand people were employed. It does, it certainly has something to do with this budget. It has a lot to do with the budget. In this budget, what's most important is there's room for investment, but we can't look at things in a way that everything in this one, that it's all government's fault and that this government has to do everything. A lot is up to all of us, and I think we should look forward to the future. The investment of this moment was created by an anti-enterprise climate in Croatia, but we all have to fight together to get foreign investments, because we know that this investment cycle that has been missing over the past two years or three years, that it will appear and that we will certainly help in this way also to get out of this situation and crisis. I say once again, I will vote for that budget, and I believe all my colleagues and the budget will pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63170	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić. He's gone. So he loses the right to argue. Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63171	Thank you, Mr. President. The SDP has made it very clear that salaries, pensions and social contributions to the most vulnerable are the last line of defence and attempt to plant from HDZ that we are to reduce wages, pensions and social benefits are the most common lie. As the citizens of Croatia know, and already birds on the border are saying to justify their impotence, indecision, ignorance of the legacy of Racan's government is a desperate move that leads Croatia to an economic, social and moral breakthrough. Of the 20 years of the Croatian state, you have been responsible for 16 years and are the most responsible for the catastrophic state and society, and please stop pulling out over the back of a man who, unfortunately, cannot answer you. It is your job to propose, and it is our job to offer our solutions, and it is a continuous contribution from the SDP. We pointed to all the problems, difficulties and difficult times that were coming and coming, seeking responsibility and readiness for reforms, for saving, we proposed solutions that would make life easier, better, safer, but you didn't take it seriously and you refused everything. For you everything was ideal, almost here in Croatia was banned from crisis and thought, let alone talk about it, and let the citizens manage as they know and can. Today we are discussing a draft budget for 2011 in which the Prime Minister says yesterday as a particularly important year. As she stated, this is the conclusion of some, the conclusion of negotiations, the signing of an accession agreement, a referendum on the European Union. It is probably very important to the Prime Minister, but what about the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia? They are definitely and surely, with fear and coldness, looking at the uncertain, unperspective and dreary next year. The programme of economic recovery that is constantly being talked about at this point is a dead letter on paper, and since the only thing that has changed has been a ruthless and inexorably shutting down jobs, almost 5 hundred a day in the last month or more precisely 15 thousand jobs have been lost over the past month, 56 thousand working months in the past year since Mrs Kosor took responsibility and headed the Croatian government. But also, because of the above mentioned things, I would only remind you that the SDP proposed when it predicted that such things could happen to the Employment Mediation and Rights Act during unemployment, an increase in unemployment benefits for the Employment Service, which was rejected. Also, one of our colleagues mentioned our proposal for a bill on the prolongation of housing loans in 2009 for the simple reason that those who remain unemployed simply have no where and how to fulfill their obligations and it is also rejected. Another problem I don't know if it's burning, which is that an additional 85,000 workers are working, but they don't get paid for their work. An even sadder situation is that their employers don't pay their contributions for years, so we have cases like the last clear, which are workers of Kamensky, who seem to care about no one in the government. But it should also be recalled that the SDP has proposed a draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, the Penal Code where it was proposed that failure to pay workers for the work of compulsory taxes and contributions also become a criminal offence. So it was so neatly rejected. Opening new jobs is always a survival, the only chance that Croatia from the negative... Growth tries, as Mrs. Prime Minister likes to say, to find a way towards the path of economic recovery, but it seems that no one has put on a map an economic recovery programme, so every day it is harder to find. [[You don't understand.]] The fact is also that since HDZ's government took responsibility since 2004, up to now from the 85 billion budget to these now 122 nearly billion have been spent over 630 billion and unfortunately the only thing the government knows and can and does not ask for the price is borrowing and borrowing and borrowing. The external debt – 46 billion euros, during Mrs Kosor's term of office, increased external debt by 5 billion euros and increased by 10 million and 500 thousand euros a day. Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, including only children born, carries a burden of 10,000 euros in debt. These are facts, and we would all like as responsible people, politicians to see these facts look different, but at this point someone is more responsible to act because they have instruments and levers to change these facts. And you'll have to start changing them. In the end, we were invited here to come to some ministries to see how it was done. We have nothing to look at. That, unfortunately, is currently being done by the State's Attorney's Office. During last week's debate on the State's Attorney General's Report, Mr Bajic said the disputes that are being held at the moment are difficult 14 billion kuna. It's mostly corruption cases, it's practically a deficit that is now being re-proposed with this budget. Citizens know well that if they don't take care of their finances at home, if they spend more than they earn for a while, you cover it by borrowing, but then it's only a matter of time before it's all due. When your cards are cut, when will you sit down or God forbid your house or apartment goes to the drum for mortgages and credits? If that's the way we're going to look at this budget, then do you force Croatia to a drum? Croatian citizens must know that this budget only offers a threat to the exchange rate of kuna, an increase in liquidity and unemployment, an increase in the problem of non-payment of salaries and pensions and the problem of paying off external debt. In short, it's a disaster for everyone, but not for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63172	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Luke Denon's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63173	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Let me first say and respond first in the first place to the MPs of the HDZ this morning who insisted that there, and intimidated the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with SDP, who, when it comes to power, will cut salaries and cut pensions. At least I know that part of the Rijeka-based SDPs, part of the Rijeka-based parliamentary deputies, read the SDP strategy for the upcoming elections, never mentioned that, in any measure of the SDP, it would happen that both small salaries and such small and miserable pensions would be reduced. Well, that's what our colleague Mr. Greek said, but it's obvious that it should be repeated over and over again that such things are not feared by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the proposal for this 2011 state budget was supposed to determine how we will be in the next year. If, at first, we have found that the difference between the estimated revenue and the assigned expenditure is somewhere around 15 billion kuna whether it should be a very big financial expert and find that this is, of course, too much and that, as the only possible solution, imposes a necessary reduction in consumption. We've received, of course, these days, yesterday and today, a clear message from this government that in this election year they say they won't do it. Of course, it would be wrong to understand that or to think that the government is doing it for the citizens because I suppose it is certainly out of fear that real reforms with serious procedures and approach to solving the problem would certainly lead to a fall in popularity if it has not already fallen quite and consequently possibly thus ruling the thought of losing the election. But the inaction and the stick of the head in the sand in front of such a concise budget that brings us nothing good might be good for the ruling coalition, but I wonder what it is, what about the ones that make us this budget? What do the citizens think of us? I'm going to ask or we're going to ask these citizens, of course, if in 2010, they weren't doing well, then even in 2011 with this budget, it can't be better. So, it can be the same bad, but all the indicators say that it will probably be worse and worse because we have new responsibilities waiting for us, we are waiting for an even deeper deepening of the post-crisis period as I realized that we are already in the post-crisis period, I don't know where this syntagma is coming from, more than one rebalancing, of course, the growth of deficits and consequently means a worse way of life in 2011. Of course, the basic message that we're bombing our Croatian public these two days is that there will be wages and there will be pensions, don't worry. Mr. Shuker, of course, said why we have these salaries and why we have those pensions, so he made it very clear yesterday that because there is no bond, no debt, the bond is debt, there would be no salary, there would be no pension. Well, it's not some kind of wisdom to take what we didn't earn out there and then pay what for every normal government is a normal obligation to provide third-year citizens with a safe pension and for those who do safe pay. What is this message when the government tells us that we're going to borrow to get paid and pensions? The message of those millions and 300 or 250 pensioners, the message to them is yes, you will get your pensions safe, but we are putting one burden on their weak shoulders, one burden and the obligation to think about who will repay that debt. That debt has to be paid back. Their grandkids will be returned. So we now give pensions that will bring back their grandkids and thus burden these pensioners' consciences so that they live today we practically spend our future. I think such a concise budget where the future of the Republic of Croatia is spent is not good. And of course I was truly deeply convinced that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But if he claims that there will be a salary and there will be a pension, they should have put in a point, they mean a million and 200 pensioners and about 250 thousand people who are employed in state services, that's about a million and a half of Croatian citizens that the Government of the Republic of Croatia allegedly cares about. If I remember correctly, there are 4 and a half million people in Croatia somewhere, which will say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not care about nearly 2/3 of its citizens. They don't care how they get paid in the real sector, whether their employers will pay their contributions and then maybe get a pension, the role of the government doesn't seem to me to care for just one part of their citizens, but should really take care of all their citizens. When we said on many occasions that this government policy that cannot move anything significant on the revenue side, we stayed at 2007, then we spent our hands and hats to have the cost of the kind of spending it was in 2010. We stopped in 2011 in receipts or on those 2007 indicators, we kept spending and spending these 4 years spending, to get back nowhere, because we are unable to reduce this consumption we do not have that power that is important that the budget, the revenue side can be increased from that deficit. That seems to me to be a huge failure of this government. And, of course, when we were talking about having a hard time waiting for us, then we were called, unfortunately, that we were mean, those who talk about disaster. I will quote people who may be more professional than we are some in the SDP that we speak, so let's say the Croatian National Bank forecasts that in this 2010. GDP falls by 1.9%, employment by 4.9%, mass pays by 6%, investments by 11%, and is expected to grow deficits to 23 billion kuna, counting naturally both Croatian highways and other public companies. And it's wrong to think that the world is going to get us out of the crisis because something different and more beautiful is going to happen out there somewhere around us. Without encouraging production and exports, and painful cuts not announced by the SDP but persistently announces, as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia likes to say, but just say not to do, the crisis itself will not end because the fundamental problem remains the same. The combination of these unsustainable fiscal policies as we lead them and the high debt, and it has to change as quickly as possible. Whoever loses, whoever wins the election, in the long run can only get citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, there are no such measures in this budget, all those forecasts that say that in 2011, we will be worse and harder founded and there is no movement in this government to improve anything and that this budget raises one hope that in 2011, we may go to this post crisis period. Now we are not and now this policy of the government leads us to just greater borrowing, to an even greater drop in employment and I do not think that this is a perspective for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63174	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63175	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have not long celebrated State Day, the day of our country's independence for 20 years, tomorrow a sad day marking the fall of Vukovar and these 20 years of our country, for 16 years there has been a party called the Croatian Democratic Community together with its coalition partners, for 4 years it has ruled the SDP together with its coalition partners. And that's logical, the first-class folk school, 16+4 which the government is more responsible or less responsible for the situation we're in today, we're in recession and collapse today. But let's let the parties go, let's think about the states. There are more than 180 countries in the United Nations, in World Health than 190 and several countries. Each state has its own executive power, its judicial authority, its legislative authority. Imagine a country where the main man for the economy is the Deputy Prime Minister in custody, imagine a country where the President of the Competitiveness Council, so for the progress of that country, is in custody, imagine a state, I don't know what that country is called, in which it is a member of the World Government, and that is a member of the United Nations Security Council, imagine that state, imagine that executive government. Imagine a state where the Constitutional Court is talking about what we, parliamentarians, about banning or not banning work on Sundays, imagine a state where the Constitutional Court speaks of the right to a referendum. Imagine that country. And in that country where you imagine, you know who was the best Parliament to date. Today, the best was legislative authority. They were the best advocates and advocates and the country 153 in the division of responsibilities were as correct as possible, to this day. So I ask you colleagues and colleagues, can you and I stand to get the budget on the table 12 hours after he's adopted. I commend the current government for giving us a budget in November, but colleagues and colleagues have the legislative authority to send us 10, 12 hours earlier. Could we colleagues and colleagues in that country, in that legislative authority, be able to handle it. Google these parameters I was saying, and you'll get the name of that state, the name of that state that had such executive, legislative and judicial authority. I'm not talking about parties, I'm not talking about anything, I'm just talking about the situation we're in. Parliamentarians and Assembly representatives have been correct so far, and think about when next time you would not be making a budget, but rather making any law. The budget is of course neither developed nor invested in health or science. Why? Because 700 million is less kuna in the health ministry's portfolio. Exactly 700 million 25 and 600 so much less our citizens and citizens will feel in their health, so much less consume their right to prevent, so less will have the right to hospital health care. And only in a row and really randomized because we can go to the point by point. Prevention, you've all been on systematic inspections, all of you MPs and representatives of your family are being sent for preventive checks, and then believe or not a series of preventive checks and a series of action plans are being abolished this year. For example, an action plan to prevent and reduce overweight believe or not the national problem of preventing diabetes. Every 4th child in the United States is also overweight, and in Croatia it is every 5 years for 10.15 years a whole series of diseases in the current way of life will manifest high pressure, stroke, cancer development. If we cancel those checks, and six months ago, we adopted them, the Parliament, and the government suggested and put on big bells, which we do. One kuna invested in prevention is a factor times 10. There's no bank there's no savings, there's no stock exchange, there's no risk of funds that can give you with a road factor 10. It's amazing that these national prevention programs don't disappear. As regards investments in health care, the Croatian state was created thanks to a referendum where over 90% of our citizens and our citizens have unanimously chosen independence. Unfortunately, we had an aggression against our country, unfortunately there was an aggressive war in the blood. And when you look at this referendum then the vitality of the Croatian state is incredibly high, because practically 95% of people have decided independence. And in that country which is 4.5 million inhabitants, which is the parameter of one European or American city, the second Clinical Hospital Center is Rijeka, amazing. For KBC Rijeka to receive 50% less funding next year, and for large bells you also have the words and words and citizens of Rijeka and the surrounding county to know and have to get KBC Rijeka an adequate hospital. You've read the paper, of course the original doesn't have to be a newspaper. You've seen where the biggest waiting lists are, in Rijeka. And believe it or not, why? Because they don't have adequate equipment, they don't have imaging methods, they don't have endoscopic methods, and neighboring small county hospitals have a magnetic device. KBC Rijeka is the second Croatian hospital. I'd like it to be the first one to pass my rib. That's what we're gonna do with competition and competence. That'll make them and us better. But of course the problem is that the president of our National Competitiveness Council is now in custody or something like that. Health care on the islands. Croatia is a country with a thousand 237 or 73 islands. We're the country of the island. Health care improves health care on islands disappears. How does a country with excellent transport infrastructure improve health care on islands? How to improve tourism and put an end to what we have to provide. For example, to patients with haemodialysis who will come in spring and autumn so that you have some kind of, where Cappelli doesn't see him, in Lošinj he did it well, to have the possibility of hemodialysis. It should get every big Croatian island. How, when it's lifted. The prescription medicinal products are reduced. How can prescription drugs be reduced and yesterday we heard that Croatian citizens drank 4 million boxes of drugs more last year. Why? There's no prevention, she's gone. There's no education, she's out. No curricula, no stakes in the knowledge society. Well, that's the consequence of inaction. That's the consequence. This is just a lock. It is impossible to reduce prescription medicines if they grow annually 10, 12, 13%. It is possible if there is reason in the executive administration to transfer some of this medicine to OTC or over the count recipes. So, that old drugs are kind of dying and becoming OTC. It's possible, but it's not done. So he's got the medicine, but he needs to read, he needs to work. Hospital health care is down 5%. How? And now there are large waiting lists in the hospital in outside hospital health care and in all other systems. The reason is very clear. Unreal procurement of equipment in recent years, buying of local powers or smaller powers, the fact that cities of 15 thousand inhabitants have equipment that should be equipped with clinical hospital centres, the fact that these same cities and sizes are being extinguished by birthplaces, the type of Sinja, Makarska, and they do not have hospitals. Why wouldn't Metkovic get some kind of device? There are 15,000 inhabitants. That is why we are colleagues and colleagues with access to healthcare, by equal treatment at the end of the World Health Organization evaluation. And we can talk to each other here one way or another, I've tried to picture the country, Google that country that has, and it has one, and it has an executive, legislative and judicial power. And I am proud to be part of this legislative authority that has been through the best in this country to this day. But today we're all on a maturity test. Today we're all dressed up in a corner, not with our own guilt. So I invite all of you to take care of this tonight's vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63176	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63177	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to start by thinking if I heard wrong, I'm sorry, but I don't think there's a vote tonight. The colleague who spoke before me talked about prevention, so I will say for my introduction to the debate that the prevention of the future of Croatia is a change in the behaviour of all of us in this country, from the top to the bottom, from us representatives in the Croatian Parliament to through mayors, mayors, mayors, factory workers, doctors in hospitals and everyone else. However, I do not see today that these changes are here in this high house, in this assembly as we discuss the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011. And just right away that fellow who spoke before me said that according to the research... In view of the health system, the Republic of Croatia is situated in the world's first third countries, while according to the World Bank's standards, health system reforms that are under way are an important and healthy basis for economic development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He was talking to a colleague and I'm gonna stick around for a while, even though I didn't think so, but here's how it worked out that a colleague in his debate got stuck on the health system. It is strange that you have not supported everything that the Croatian Government and Resolute Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Milinovic has done in reforming the health system in the Republic of Croatia, why we are not talking about the categorization of the hospital health system that follows, why we do not recognise that it has been done over the past period to introduce order into the health system. Why don't we say and admit that KBC Rijeka received a new building last year and the most modern hemodialysis equipment and that KBC is in such tragic and catastrophic conditions as a colleague now said reading data from the KBC Rijeka budget proposal would certainly not have stood so well. When you talk about buying equipment and coming from the town of Slavonski Brod, which has the largest county hospital in Croatia and I hope that in the categorization that follows it will be a regional hospital, regional importance which thanks to this reform and no special separation from the state budget for the hospital in Slavonski Brod will just a few days ago sign the contract and from its resources of a poor Brod-Posavina County will acquire a magnetic resonance. Partly, not only was this made possible by the administration, director and hospital administration, not only the understanding and assistance of the poor county but also by the reform carried out by Dr Milinovic. Otherwise, I thought that a respected colleague had not spoken before me, to speak at the beginning of his debate with fellow disaster seekers and colleagues. Some of you before this budget said that this budget has no character, so I ask you colleagues and colleagues if it makes sense to call the Government that this budget has no character when neither pay nor pension nor social giving is touched in this budget. Is it worth mocking today that you have repeated all the time in your discussions that this government promises to have, that it will be for pension and salary payments, and not to say that all this time, so throughout 2010, during 2009 the state budget giving on behalf of the public budget users, pensions and all other social givings has not been delayed for days. If you want to be credible, then you have to state the facts that don't apply to you, and I understand your position and your situation in which it's not easy to be in opposition all the time. And don't call us names, we are very aware of who led this country for 16 years and don't call us that colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary majority are calling some today, I think that colleague Dragovan said dead people, don't tell us that you who wanted to erase from the consciousness of the Croatian people and Croatian history in 2000. You are talking about job loss, you do not want to say that the latest data provided by the Croatian Employment Service shows that the growth trend of the unemployed has been halted and that more people have been employed in the first 9 months of 2010 than in 2009 at the same time. You call for credibility, and remember the budget rebalancing when you announced that the Croatian Government would cut wages and pensions, but you immediately promised the same people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were the first to worry that when you came to power you would immediately return the same salaries and pensions if the Government took them down. The government doesn't take them down. In her address yesterday, the Prime Minister as proposing this budget said why the assessment and decision are so, she said this is not an election budget because the parliamentary majority cares more about the fate of the state than about the results of the elections. And we hope to do everything we've achieved, to implement the Economic Recovery Measures Programme with indicators that show that we're moving forward, to get out of the crisis. Do not look at Croatia as an island, anything that happens in the Croatian environment, and we are aware that we are affected by the crisis later, somewhat later than Europe or the world, that we will come out later. Do not call us a deficit of 4.3 today when the budget deficit in 2003 was 5.3% and 12 billion kuna, respectively, when there was no crisis or recession. Someone said the world won't get us out of the crisis now from opposition colleagues, or colleagues from the opposition. So we agree, just then we ask why you are calling for the IMF's arrival, because you're showing some anxiety because the recovery indicators are slowly coming out. And then when you can't destroy anything, you can't ban most people from adopting a budget like this, then you're calling the IMF. Therefore, let us be aware of the moment in which we are bringing this 2011 budget of the Republic of Croatia with projections for 2012 and 2013 and let us acknowledge that this Government has solutions for the exit and economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, and clearly for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I'll support this budget for those reasons, and I'll just end up saying it. Tomorrow we do not celebrate the day of the fall of Vukovar. Tomorrow we mark the day of remembrance of the victims of Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63178	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Suzana Bilić Vardić, in her presentation, said very clearly as the original, believe it or not the weekly, the American weekly "News Week". So it's a newspaper, a weekly date every seven days. I'm, of course, subscribed to "Time," and she's definitely been subscribed to "News Week," so we can change, so we can exchange information. As originators, we must not be listed by the AMF, the World Bank, the World Health Organization, independent financial, scientific, professional and other decisions. And for the love of God, not the weekly who is a bona fide with a high remintention this hour. Thank you very much, Madam Representative, Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63180	Thank you. Answer Mrs. Bilic Wardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63181	Thank you very much. Dear and esteemed colleague Ostojić, I haven't forgotten my name, but better. So here's the deal. In your replica, you have done again what I advocated, what you heard in my debate, and unfortunately you have gone back and forth again or again. I'll bet you've chosen what suits you. But I get it, I get it, buddy. But for the sake of this country, we need to learn to say that it's important that you quoted this, but I'll tell you, and then we can move on. Otherwise, without consensus, and I advocate and invite my colleagues to give support even though I understand that there is no help from you. But we don't need help at this point, and we don't need it when we need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63182	Thank you. We have another replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63183	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Bilić Vardić, while you are already quoting various sources then it would not be bad to quote "Washington Times" which, without any denial, already writes about how millions of dollars, hundreds of millions of dollars were robbed from Croatia and are in the party accounts of our biggest party. Furthermore, you said that this country has been run by your party for 16 years, and you're very well acquainted with the newspapers, right, and if that's true in public and every single person in this country how many individuals from that party are suspected of serious corruption and crime and for hundreds of millions or billions, two billion kunas are estimated to have disappeared in these affairs. Excuse me, 15 billion kuna or 2 billion euros to calculate. Next, you were talking about getting a magnetic resonance for a hospital in Slavonski Brod. Well, you see, your 16-year-old minister, I think as long as you rule for 16 years as former Ljubicic and this current minister have been in Slavonski Brod, homing and promising a hospital polyclinic in Slavonski Brod, and yet, even though you were personally in Zagreb in July, you failed at the meeting, and there is no money in this budget for and to remain around 10.15 million kuna for the hospital polyclinic in Slavonski Brod. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63184	Thank you. Mrs. Vardic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63185	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I'm going to read your Washington Times very carefully. I don't know if they are or when they will, and I'm sure they will also want to publish attempts to bribe the Supreme Court judges in the Republic of Croatia who made up members of your party. And for this second thing you spoke about the ship's hospital, your colleague and you had opportunities when you were in 2001 to 2005 in the coalition government in Brod-Posavina County and do not worry when we draw the line at the end of the term of Minister Milinovic will show that the ship's hospital has done much more than in your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63186	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 38 more reported. I've been informed that some deal has been reached regarding replicas and corrections. What? No, no. I just want to suggest something. Since we are not sure whether replicas will continue and corrections can count on it much longer. Well, maybe I have an idea, so that no, no, but to add a written debate, and we'll read later. A written debate, so we'll read it later, yeah, and it won't, and when it's written debate there's no replica and correction, then we've solved a lot of things. Come on, more jokes aside, but there's definitely 37 or eight more of us. Yeah? And now it's Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić's turn, so she might suggest... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63187	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to what you've said, I'm not going to submit a written debate, but I'm going to shorten it to the maximum, hoping that I won't cause any replicas, because we agreed that we'd stick to at least a deal. Here we should just point out that today and yesterday we are almost here all day discussing a budget that is indeed the result of this economic situation and the situation as it is. But we also need to identify several colleagues on one hand and on the other hand that it is not just our budget, but it is also the result of a general crisis that is across Europe, including the whole world. I must point out that this is not a pre-election budget as it is heard both in the media and from colleagues, but it is not a budget without character, because it has its own goal and its purpose, this is a budget that is not even catastrophic, because it contains economic recovery measures, and it also contains some infrastructure projects, water economy, roads, and only a good reading of the budget. I have to say that unlike many countries in our environment, the deficit we're talking about these days is catastrophic, that deficit is much less than it is. both in Italy and Hungary and in the Czech Republic, and I will not mention countries such as Spain, Portugal, Greece, Ireland, which we listen to yesterday in the Dnevnik that are right among themselves, objecting to what is the situation in both the economy and the budget, and I note that they are all just members of the European Union. In the spring, the government made a programme of economic recovery and made one significant decision just in August, when rebalancing, on freezing expenditure at 2010 level, colleagues in the opposition did not support this conclusion, and I do not think it is good. The government has already announced that expenditure will, therefore, stop spending at the level of the state at all this year. But it does not mean that there will be no recovery, as the growth of the Croatian economy is expected, is expected and predicts the growth of the gross social product by 1 and a half percent, which is not something large and bombistic, but is a good sign of next year's recovery. Some have repeatedly pointed out, and today we have heard that something should be taken away, something should be given to someone else, but no one has specifically said which items and what should be taken away from and who to whom to give. That's what no one said until today, not even yesterday in the debate. The objective of this budget is very visible, it is primarily citizens' social security, and that means we have to tell our citizens that their salaries and pensions are safe. They're safe and they're safe with social benefits, which means child benefits, social benefits, one-time maternity benefits. That's not touched. That is that security and that is what we must advocate for the security of citizens, just us MPs in Parliament. The second objective of this budget is economic and financial recovery, investment in capital projects. And that's what we've been hearing about these days, 30 big capital projects. I said, if we start to read out of this budget those divisions and those positions relating to the Ministry of Economy, which relate to the Ministry of Regional Development, the water, the forest economy, where it can be read that the funds are provided for both roads and water supply and disposal. So nothing and no one's been lifted yet. The third objective of this budget is also the means provided for a referendum of entry into the European Union. I think it's three objectives of this government that I can really read out of this budget. We have to say that the economy is something we've all talked about here. Without him, there's no social security. I also agree with my colleagues in the opposition who claim it, but that is why I am saying that on these items we can read that there are items in the budget that mark and preserve jobs, and encouraging the economy through measures to finance small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurship structures, interest subsidies for credit support, I said the situation is not good, but for everything it is still provided the funds in this budget, for the rehabilitation and restructuring of the industry. Some incentives from these economic measures that have been in place have already yielded results. Here we heard yesterday and today, and there's a colleague of ours who's doing just wood production, so I can say that the wood industry on the threshold of the adoption of these measures has also experienced a kind of boom, especially furniture production. We can't say, and we need to be optimistic that these indicators are talking about going one step at a time towards recovery. I said that this budget is a product and a continuation of the economic recovery programme, one of the most important activities of this programme is also a segment of fiscal policy, and in this context it is envisaged, and I must mention what we have all forgotten here and the abolition of what is so-called. crisis tax and reduced income tax rates, the implementation of these measures has also made one minus about two billion kuna in the budget, but at the same time it is certainly a little more money in the pockets of our citizens. No one called the citizens, I'm sorry that my colleague Vidovic didn't have to tell him that, because through his debate I suggested it, no one called the citizens that they were expensive, especially not the pensioners as he said, nobody put them in any other category, but we also have to remind a colleague that he was just the minister in the government who was supposed to take care of the categories of citizens of those who were damaged in 2003, as a teacher, it always hurts me. You stayed in charge of the Christmases, the regresses to professors, teachers, doctors, nurses, and yet somehow you filled your deficit with the sale of Croatian goods. Unfortunately, there is no longer this treasure, because THT was sold for 500m euros, Rijeka Bank, Split Bank, INA, all of it was sold to settle the deficit in the budget at the time, and the rest of you owed to my teachers to say big funds for Christmases and regressions, they unfortunately had to sue, and then they were even higher costs. Here I have to say that this is still a fair approach to citizens, citizens are in this budget in the first place, but it doesn't mean that it's not the economy, and financial recovery is also visible from this budget, and I think this 2011 budget is a very good basis for the next two years that we can also read about from this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63188	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63189	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, or ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, now that we're talking to the government, and the government doesn't move, even though you keep saying, help, but you can't help who won't help, who refuses our proposals, and then only so many years after there's been an almost irreparable damage repair. That's why I now address citizens and citizens directly on this occasion. They well know that Croatia is traumatized by this rule almost as much as by war. Remember those five-speed promises and the famous driver who ran away in the seventh gear. And now, with this vehicle, Croatia is taking a Karambolized vehicle. And a devastated and devastated Croatia. A vehicle with no more brakes. Where's he going? Straight to the ground. And that's why Mrs. Kosor is surprised that you're not clapping at me, and I've drawn up this budget. It's a fairy tale nobody believes in anymore. Because Croatian dream, the Croatian fairy tale has turned into a nightmare. This budget is nothing more than a Croatia sentence. This is Croatia's grumbling and, gentlemen of the government, have a little more dignity and say here we can't go any further, we don't know. I think Croatian citizens would understand and appreciate that. If a young man is not able to work in Croatia, and this is an average young man, who is highly educated or has a certain education, has a certain qualification, is he incapacitated? No, it's an incompetent government that didn't allow him to work, that didn't create those conditions. The German Chancellor did everything for the German economy and for the German worker. Why do you not imitate such examples? Croatia is in a deep economic crisis and our problems are growing from day to day. First, because the crisis is not resolved, and second, the crisis has become overly social, to all social relations. In Croatia there is one anaemia, one impatience. Suicides are a day-to-day phenomenon, not to mention murders. Indemnity of 46 billion plus the sale of state property, that economic growth below the interest rate paid for that debt. However, this 2009 and this year's ino debt gives no growth but a decline in the real social product of around 8%. Which means that all of this and your entire concept is based on foreign capital, i.e. foreign borrowing, is having a collapse and that these are clear indicators to make a strong turn. But for that there is obviously not only no more strength but obviously no more time for it. What are we supposed to do? We spent a lot of money on numerous development studies, but all these studies, all these numerous papers and thick paper were unrealistic and non-binding. The only obligation was for the state to pay them neatly and it certainly did not remain in debt. Today, however, these developmental problems are not dealt with under crisis conditions, and this logically does not address institutions either. And it would have just been a crowded administration, it wouldn't have been piled up if it had been put into that service, but then, in that sense, the government should have hired her. The only exception, to put your hand on the heart, is Croatia's EU membership. But then what do we do? We're literally enrolling in a high school, we're glad to be in such an environment, but great, which is not how we're going to be great. Well, gentlemen, that's where they get rid of, mathematically speaking, solving integrals and derivations, and we're still struggling with square equations. Therefore, these are our domestic works, domestic jobs that have not been carried out, and the government has done nothing to train Croatia, or those reforms. Moreover, apart from economic development and growth, we have a political system that is absolutely immature and at the level of such standards of democratic development, which comes down from the elections to the elections and where citizens are no longer asking questions. Gross, i.e. GDP growth, which already stands out here more than 6% would only be the need to pay off loans, new jobs, growth for greater social needs and for a fairer distribution between them and growth for economic restructuring. However, such a growth rate does not mean what Mrs. Prime Minister keeps saying, say where to cut. She never wondered, and we didn't offer solutions to how to grow. Because cutting yourself has nothing more to do with it. You'd be happy to take both your pension and your salary, but it's so miserable average pensions and salaries that you no longer have anything to cut. We also need a new employment and capital ratio. The government was obviously in the protection of capital and the one she didn't check on, the suspect, while this direct and healthy weak and unhappily comes to us, and many obstacles have been made to him. So, I said something about a spent political system, but we really need such a political system where people will be wondering in time about a lot of things, so it would be easier for us and for the authorities. We now had a group of friendships between Croatia and Germany, the representative said in Germany you see the budget coming in the 7th month, and here we are being attacked by what at 11. He says no, says Vice-President Bundestaga, no, a public debate is just opening at 7 a.m., at 9 a.m. he comes to Parliament, and at 11 a.m. we're just bringing him in. And here in the morning, yesterday morning, the chairman of the Finance Committee received a budget, and we are now discussing and in two days we will vote him. Is this the development of our political system and Parliament's role in the budget, and then the whole democracy is seen through it? Our agriculture is abandoned, what other incentives are these to import food? There is certainly room to talk about, but there is almost no solution. Croatia should and could develop high science, technology. With more knowledge, there would be much less prejudice. Of course, there goes the responsible leadership and use of our resources. Let's remember the woods, the water. Are we waiting for strangers to buy it for us tomorrow in the European Union? The state-owned companies, all over the place are wheels, enormous congestiones of the development of the national economy, and with us, what they've turned into, a litter of corruption. The lack of industrial and fiscal policy is exactly our political clientelism, in fact it is the top of the ice dream that is happening in Croatia. So in a similar situation, some other countries were transitioning, but what they did. In a very short time, they launched direct investment in the industrial sector, which then opened hundreds of thousands of jobs and thus financed exactly the national economy but opened up to international industrial institutions, not trades, let it go, it will come from itself, but it is exactly the kind that opened the entrance and there is room for such investments. For years, however, the government's policy has encouraged the abolition, not job creation, that was short term, and you boasted about it, but you can see that it's a short breath policy. Therefore, the Croatian economy, which does not rely on industrial economy, has led to a collapse in many more developed countries, such as in Germany, but rather in construction. So Croatia needs structural reforms and investment and safety of the Croatian economy on its knees, the issue is national security number one in Croatia. These are first-class national economic issues, not amongst themselves spying on political opponents or unsuspecting. By all standards and economic and democratic standards, media freedoms, the competitiveness of Croatia is at the very bottom. Therefore, it is no longer even important for this regime but for those who will say stop to such a regime, so that they will seek change. So, if every government, I would say not only from one term to another, but from almost an era to an era, had one economic policy, my vision of an economy in it, then we have to say, unfortunately, that HDZ's government has proved itself to be its only corrupt genius. Transferring responsibility to the SDP, Racan's government, that's not even a good idea anymore, because fatigue is tolerated but laxity gentlemen don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63190	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63191	The Honorable President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister, the Secretary of State. Since a lot is said about this Budget, and since I also think that there is not much that can be fixed in the budget because there could be a saying from Zagorje "The dead body does not have a cure", I will deal with this other thing that I think needs to be said now, and that is what to do to make us better. My colleague, Zvonimir Mršić, has set off with a situation that is related to realisation, to the situation, to the decentralisation policy, I will sort of continue there, because I think this is definitely where we are today, a situation that says things should change and change them in a firm way. Since I represent local self-government, it's clear I'm going to talk about local self-government. First of all, I'm just going to say, I think the law of all laws is a balanced regional development that we don't have today, and today it's not present, because unfortunately we have neither objective nor objective criteria that would function in nature in the distribution of funds intended for regional development. More and more significant are the influences of individuals or lobbys in obtaining funds than objective needs and objective principles of even development of those who are really needed. The area I come from, the city from which I come does not belong to undeveloped ones, does not belong to those who should be helped, but who could use some help, so by the way, I will only mention a memo that I received two days ago from the Ministry of Economy. We have run for further expansion of the economic zone in which we have investors but we do not have enough capacity to build an infrastructure for the funds of the Ministry of Economy and the State Secretary has responded the following way, this is how we encourage economic development: "We think that future construction of infrastructure in your zone should be charged by those already in the zone". The recipe is excellent, and on the other hand the government is attacking us and Minister Schuker with parafiscal inducement or communal fees are too high. And now briefly on what is the essence of my exposure, which is that we have a state that is upside down in its organization, we have a state that has a huge head but has no body, no legs. The pyramid is upside down, and my evidence is as follows, I quote relevant European data: "The number of employees in the total population, the number of employees in local self-government units in the European Union are the following, again the the thesis of colleagues Mrsic. What are the biggest problems, the ones you hear now have the smallest number. I won't mention it to Malta, but Greece has 0.81% of local self-government employees, in the general population. Croatia 0.83, the Netherlands 1.13 and now to skip these between and now I will read to you, Austria 4.5, Germany 4.8, Poland 4.55, Hungary 6.21, Finland 8.23, Sweden 11.55 and Denmark 12.39. When you compare it then these figures in absolute amount the next Sweden has a million and 51 employees in local and regional self-government units, Croatia 37,000. But now it would be interesting to compare the data we'll never get to, probably or very hard, as much as in all agencies and ministries. I don't agree with that release of people from these institutions, not by redistribution, as well as the opponent of the theory of abolishing local self-government units. We don't have too many. You have all said many times that many units of local self-government that have not become independent would not have been developed as they are today, but I am in favour of redistributing powers, because this is also coming from the field, because my colleague Zeljko certainly has the same example that units of local self-government in our environment are asking us to unite certain tasks and to create a legal framework not to be an alternative to a self-government agreement, but a legislation that will solve mutual relations and certain powers that the country needs to move to local self-government. One of the examples that I constantly get from a professional deformity is the question of local police. We don't actually have police in the municipal and local sense today. The MUP has its powers and schedules of duty, its powers by individual services and you don't actually have a police officer who would act in the prevention of public order and peace and road safety. I was in the Netherlands to use the colloquial, and we were squabbling, and there was a colleague, Neda Klaric, and I was in this delegation of associations and cities, and we were literally peeing on cops in cities. He claims that there are too many police, not only badly deployed. But it's definitely time that instead of the traffic directors we now have within our communal activities the possibility of hiring them to talk about the municipal police. Because it's also a prevention for all those and what we've been saying these days about the budget but what we read in the papers, from domestic violence, prevention and action, from violence among young people from school violence. Therefore, this budget will definitely not benefit the local self-government in terms of its strengthening, because fellow denominator Shuker is the easiest to make it easier to pay the income tax on income which is also said our income, and this second one does not. I had to get the minister's attention. But I hope that this crisis in 2011 will serve to bring together new structures of local self-government and the construction of their funding, because, as is said best, the fastest ones who have developed self-government and decentralisation because in this way definitely is all the problems are easier, better and faster and feel and also solve at local level. I don't idealize excesses, and I don't idealize that there's no sheriff, but if we look at the possibility of someone stealing something, then we close everything down so we don't steal at all, then we won't get anywhere. So it provides for sanctions for those who do not respect democratic principles of the rules of conduct, but give greater freedom to local self-government and its greater influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63192	Thank you. It's Mr. Iron Flego's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63193	Thank you very much. My colleague Lugarić and I are probably tired of repeating that education and science is crucial for the development of every society and that therefore they are the relevant social glue or substance of social cohesion. But it seems to me that we are going the other way and I agree with my colleague, Hanzek, that the whole series of things is upside down. We should first have a development strategy and know what the budget is for, and then only then do we bring the budget and its strategic and impact specifics. So is education. Contrary to the various propaganda pamphlets of education in the Republic of Croatia, although it has been declared high and perhaps the first priority and that it has been constantly falling for 7 years. I'll tell you one perfectly accurate piece of information. The state budget grew 60.5% of education grew 50%. The share of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports was over 10.4%, now 9.8%. And it's actually an indicator of how seriously we consider the most sacred declaration and what's called a promise. Not to mention the different pre-election programmes in which education and science should become something that Croatia would choose a place for regional force on Europe's scientific educational map. It therefore seems to me if science is our priority if education and science are our priority to restructure the state budget and to invest more funds in these activities. How little money we invest in these activities I will illustrate to you from two data. The old way of calculating the state's engagement in certain activities was to show a percentage of either the gross national product or the budget allocated for a particular activity. More recently, it actually shows how many countries are singled out for higher education per student, how many education per student, how many are set aside for adequate achievements in scientific research activities. Croatia singles out colleagues and colleagues of approximately 3,000,200 euros annually. Our neighbouring Slovenia stands out 6 thousand euros annually. Austria stands out 10 thousand 500 euros annually, and the whole range of Scandinavian countries is more than 20 thousand euros per student, and the price of scientific research activities and largely high educational activities is less equal or very comparable. So we are terribly financially lagging behind, and we are very little investing in education especially that last stage of education that is probably the most achieved. The second is investment in scientific research equipment. In 2009, 15 million were invested, in 2011 we should invest 5 million 200. Croatia has 25 public institutes and Croatia has 7 universities. In 2002, colleagues and colleagues invested in the scientific research equipment of $96 million. It therefore seems to me that the restructuring of the budget in view of the strategic specifics is also needed at the level of the state budget, but it seems to me that there is only some money being spent incorrectly at the level of the restoring ministry, i.e. the real budget. I'll get you some information. We have brought science to the level of social assistance, and unfortunately for this very harsh thesis I have firm arguments. For secondary education, staff expenditure is 92% of the total budget of secondary education, which means that for no development or for any investment there is no funding. This means that there will hardly be funds for electricity and water, and for the rest, for the purchase of equipment, for the practical equipment, for the modernisation, for the new acquisitions of any kind there will be no funds. That was the data at primary school level. At the level of high school, that data is amazing, 97%. We outnumber 97% of the total budget for secondary education for those who are employed, so out-of-work, employee costs to say so. It is common for personal income expenditure to depend on the level of excellence, higher education and scientific research to be between 40% and 60%. When the usual standard is abandoned then the alarm rings in the countries where it happens. So, 40% for personal incomes if the Institute of Excellence or if the university is very reputed, and the rest goes into development. Or 60% if it's less pretentious, and then the remaining 40% goes into development, investment, refurbishment, etc. What are we doing? We've got one university where there's less than 85% of the job outages. We have one university that employs 91%. And it is quite clear that such research units and higher education institutions cannot predict and cannot plan any development but will all be satisfied and oversatisfactory if they deal with available finances at all. On page 196 we have some tragic figures. The organization of scientific gatherings is 2 million kuna. Half or more of the scientific gatherings are international scientific gatherings, so one whole set of scientific gatherings, our scientists' contacts with foreign, exchange of views, data, so their own lifelong learning will be put on ice. There are more than 100 professional associations in Croatia. For them, 600 thousand kuna are foreseen, which means that each association will receive an average of 6 thousand kuna. They won't be enough for an accountant, let alone for space, electricity and heating unless it gives them some kind of parent college, etc. Not to mention the issue of domestic magazines that are reduced to 7.5 million kunas, for publishing scientific books and textbooks that are 5 million kunas, which are elemental means, knives and forks to say scientific and research activities. In these activities, therefore, we fall into ruin. In addition, money can be completely wrong and unproductively expended and data on its kind of chaos can be illustrated both in the concept and in the organisational ministry. We go a little to the left and a little to the right and then a little bit so there, every two years we change the concept reform of education. Summer, colleagues and colleagues, has been caused by the whole storm over a completely inadequate classification of scientific and research projects. I'm not going to waste a word on the anti-zaconic declaration of the National Framework Curriculum. And in the end as time runs out, of course sand runs in the hourglass, I'd end up with a quote from the president of the state. At the advice of economists, the president said: "Only the unwise countries are reducing and reducing separations for education and science, i.e. for those levers that can only draw them out of the crisis and actually introduce them into a new development cycle."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63194	Thank you. It's your honor, Mr. Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63195	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Ministers of Honor, the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I would look less at the budget itself, not to repeat what my colleagues have already said before, that the budget is that and that. I would highlight the data, primarily those who talk about growth in 2011, 2012, 2013 because we tend to compare it with some countries developed in the West, so when the crisis started, when we mentioned a 1% percentage in Germany then we considered it a great success. Of course, in our case, the crisis began later, and now, of course, we are also talking about a more modest percentage of budget growth. So these are our options, this is our reality, the budget that will provide and which is social, which is often called both left and right sides. But as much is said, if I did not repeat from my colleagues, I would look back at a part of the budget relating to regional development in my debate. Since I am a representative from the Gorski Kotar area, less developed space, but also from more developed Primorje-Gorski Kotar County where there are two parts of that county compared to that part above, much higher and when we talk about concrete amounts then there are even ratios one to six. Today, there has been a lot of mention here of how decentralisation should be carried out. A colleague from the SDP said that social care needs to be implemented, meaning social welfare. I'd say we can spread that thesis to the question of education, so let's say let's expand it to education. However, experience teaches us from earlier times that it is not easy to carry out this decentralisation so easily, that there should still be little thought about what it carries with it. Whether there are any differences, and I'm telling you that there are very big differences and that then those who are richer, so big cities, richer cities, budgets that have six times as many as these undeveloped would mean that to them. So their citizens would get much more help because it is possible on such budgets. As far as schooling is concerned, I can tell you that sometimes when this decentralisation was being discussed, and when it was carrying out the pay gap, it was more than 30% to 40%. If we were to examine the need for social assistance now, if we were to survey educational workers if we were to exclude these large cities and good budgets, I say to you that they would respond negatively and not be at this point in time for such decentralisation if it puts them in an unequal position. Therefore, I still think that this issue should not be easily called here and called out and said that this is the solution. I know that for a colleague from Koprivnica it's probably a good solution and for his high school or for his social life that would mean something. But I claim for us smaller cities whose budgets are two to three thousand kuna per capita of original incomes that would certainly not be good and differences would be too great and then we would have to go and correct that. Since a lot of other thesis from the budget is being made available to the budget, I would refer only to this part relating to regional development, because here today there was talk. My colleague Holly talked about the lack of these irrigation projects, water pollution, and so forth. But we who work in local communities or worked, so we have a certain experience, which we have participated many times in making a budget, so on the left or right I think we talk a lot more real about it because then we had to, we didn't have everything that the state budget has, but many items we had to allocate the funds in another way. And we know that infrastructure doesn't need to be talked about how we're going to budget it's not secure. Well, infrastructure is my job, people, which you'll never finish. The more you do, the more you create new projects, the more opportunities will be opened. Of course, local communities need to be safely drained, watered, watered first and then safely drained. Water treatment is very important, because when an investor comes to you from outside, among other things, and the issue of solving property-legals everyone asks you if you have a sewer, can we join here, do you have the electricity solved? If it's a zone, it's all required. And these are some preconditions that someone might even come to you and do something about it. Therefore, the infrastructure is not possible in the state budget either. We see in the state budget the items that support both large projects and Karlovac and other local communities. However, it is impossible to put everything into one project, but we cannot say that the assumptions are not good. The assumptions for this are very good, because they will allow these places to further upgrade their business zones and everything else. And of course it takes a lot of money. If you compare a local budget that has the original income as I said and is 15 million kuna, you know how much a sewer cost you. Over 20. So what's he gonna do? These local communities, of course, have to lean, and there's a ministry that I see has taken some projects. Of course, it is necessary to take those projects that already have part of it from the resolved property-legal relations, from the solved part of the infrastructure, and that these are certain criteria by which it is obtained. We can't say that even if I didn't feel it, I've been mayor for a long time, that's because it's some other government, if I had a project that this project wasn't realized. And in this part of regional development, I would mention today rarely, but perhaps a little more detailed and mentioned wood industry. Not wanting to provoke anyone here, but I'd say I welcomed it in 2001. I say that on the basis of experience when the wood industry was being sold or when everything went bankrupt. None in that bankruptcy could recover because the debt was greater than the value of the asset. So sometimes you can get out of class, sometimes you can't. Mostly it couldn't. All the wood industry in my county, so from Klana, from Ravna Gora, from Delnica, and now at the end of Vrbovski, it essentially went bankrupt. And possibly if there was a foreign capital that had raised it to one level, if the knowers had come, if those who knew how to manage that wood industry had come, then they'd rise to one level because it's not highly profitable but there's a lot of jobs. And we need to say positively that this government has taken this one good step. After three years, it will now be the fourth year to provide funds in the budget. I also said that on the Development Committee. I'd be happier if it was even more, but we're keeping the number that was last year. So, it's been going on four years in a row. And it would've been good if we'd applied something like that to the shipbuilding. Therefore, there is a means of technological recovery in wood industry plants, and it is certainly good help to entrepreneurs that they can buy new machines or that they can make up or some other projects that are tied up, because it is done by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, to help if the plant already has the production to use that biomass, that waste, not to be granted to everyone, and that would be one good criterion. Therefore, I took part in these discussions. They're all full of mouths to help. And I'm into shipbuilding. We will support shipbuilding and other speeches, however, let's help with technological recovery. Let's not give any help. As far as I can tell, it's about 10 billion, which is now government obligations, so we've created a loss, so someone's gonna pay for it. So here we're not covering the loss, here we're giving money for technological reconstruction which is extremely good and I have to say that we seem to be when you compare it to shipbuilding that's the ratio of one to ten. The results of the wood industry are equal to the export and shipbuilding. Here you give 65 million, there you give 600 million not to talk about all other obligations. I have to admit, I don't get it until the end. No one could convince me what these investments were and how it came back, that it was ultimately profit. Unfortunately, I couldn't figure it out until the end. But I see that in the wood industry it's a very good result and of course you should go and it's not easy what Mr. Lucic said here. It's not easy to find a new market, and that's where the wood industry found itself in a rather awkward situation looking for new markets. And by that, of course, we're going to use the technological help we're giving, we're going to raise the technological level of production, we're going to go to the finals, which will open up new jobs for us then. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63196	Thank you. It's the honorary representative of Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63197	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I wouldn't want to repeat myself too much, so I'll take a few words to say about the area of tourism and the area of the islands I come from. So here is after last year's debate on the 2010 Assembly has been said that with the means that tourism gets, that it will not be able to serve in the coming crisis that we will get very bad results, that Croatia will not become so easily aware of it, and in our Mediterranean environment we will be simply, under quotes, run over in a tourist sense. However, with the funds provided for in 2010, the Croatian Government, the Ministry of Tourism and all citizens together achieved the results that we have today over 10 million tourists who visited Croatia, over 60 million overnight stays, are thought to have reached around 6.7 billion euros in traffic, which is about 400 million more than last year, which is that, at this moment, nights and visits to tourism as a whole last year, so for the next month and a half days, we will certainly break the records that are over 3, if not 5% more visits, which are nights compared to last year. Therefore, the confirmation and importance of this economic branch has been confirmed through the budget for, the draft budget for the following year 2011, where the budget forecasts a 5.7% increase for tourism in the following year. So the Ministry of Finance is therefore believed to be somewhere this year at 239.5 million kuna, compared to last year's 226.4 million kuna, and more important items of course that will continue to follow tourism, which is very valuable must be said that therefore it is intended to be 206 million kuna in some segments that are important, which means that we are 30 million kuna more still estimating very good. Tourism will therefore be available in 2011, as I said at the beginning with 5.7% higher, but most of that money will focus on the promotion of tourists, which is planned for 132 million kunas or an emphasis that is 7% higher for reasons. We must say that in 2009, according to the World Tourism Organisation, Croatia first crossed 2% of all international guests in Europe, which means that every practically 50 tourists arrived in Croatia. We must also mention that on the competitiveness scale, our country rose four places in the period from 2007 to 2009, so from 38th to 34th place, thus past some of the countries in the region, but also from competitors in the Mediterranean, who were considered tourists in the Mediterranean. In keeping with competitiveness, Croatia must have contributed, and this is evidence and an increase in the budget to the Ministry of Tourism for the following year, timely adoption of proactive measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Tourism which agreed, in cooperation with the public and private sectors. Croatia will also come out next year with a special emphasis and slogan of the future 28th member of the European Union. In addition to further increasing international market share, Croatia will continue to follow the path of competitiveness, and this year it will present its measures in due time thanks to the funds this year, i.e. for next year and scheduled, and that's 5.67% increase. In addition, for the 2011 tourism year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing for the first time by special measures to address the development of tourism in tourist and underdeveloped areas of Croatia, for which three times more investments are forecasted this year than in 2010. So the biggest increase in 2011 in budgets will have an incentive, as I mentioned for the development of tourism, specifically rural tourism, whose item thus grows by as many as 3 times or comes to 2.1 million kuna, while 8 million kuna should be allocated for the restoration of culture, natural heritage as a tourist product, through co-financing of interest in the project for success through HBOR in 2011 to 7% or 44 million kuna. And the funds for, which is very important at this point, we say at a time of crisis, need to be particularly isolated, take care of education, and it, in particular, education staff in tourism and catering, has been increased by even 30%. So almost double the funding for co-financing of investments in infrastructure that will amount to 3 million kuna in the following year, this year was a million and 800 thousand kuna. So the government recognised tourism as a branch and proved that in the 2007 budget, by increasing from 5.7 it was very much following excellent tourist results. In short lines, I would still look back at it, because today there were a few comments on a bad or very bad health standard, so connecting the island, so if we were even at least not going to say in a very bad situation of life on the islands, so maybe I'm one of the few people who live on the islands and come to the Parliament, I can tell you now I'm coming to Zagreb in three and a half hours, and there somewhere in the beginning of 2000 it took me 6.7 hours. The large funds are invested in connecting the island, the best integration of the island ever, for the restoration of the fleet and the Adriatic and all those shipowners that connect the islands, that the funds allocated to the islands in 2011 will be virtually identical this year, and if we believe that since the Ministry of Transport and Liaison has established the Board of Islands, let's count all these years of investment and this year in the budget as we see construction of municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands is even projected 22.2% more than in 2010. Therefore, it is evidence that this government is still thinking about the standard of islanders, of connecting them, of a health standard that is at some point when speaking to colleagues on land, they say, so you have some standards better than in some neighborhoods of Zagreb, Rijeka or some major cities. So I can say that we do because we have on the island, specifically, at my place, so all the specialists needed for the regular functioning of health care on the islands, from surgeons to everyone else. Yes, on the islands of 2, 3 years ago, thanks to the good programme of the Ministry of the Sea and the Department of the Islands, we also have haemodialysis that is not important and only for the island population because many times it has been heard, so it is not worth it. Here, it's worth it. The government of the Republic of Croatia recognized, gave funds for construction, so in health care, in haemodialysis hospitals today we have an additional product, so for tourists and guests who come from abroad that they can also have the possibility of having such patients who can come on vacation to the islands because now and this possibility exists. So, it's not a situation as we heard traumatized somewhere, but we believe that the government has taken care of the islanders and that it is seen by all the results of life on the islands where here I can say on the island, in Lošinj therefore there is no departure, there is no fall already there is a population growth and it is proof of the arrival of many people and of the continent. So that islands certainly have a quality life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63198	Thank you. It's time for the distinguished representative, Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected remaining ministers in the last line of defence of the government and other representatives of the ministries. The budget we are proposing today and we are likely to still be discussing and it will be a few more hours on which our Government proposes to us that we of the SDP think is unsustainable and completely missed, continues the agony of the Croatian economy, continues the waste of unearned money, and if it is adopted that it is very likely that Croatia will continue to wander in the coming year, looking for a way towards its recovery. The budget that the HDZ offers with the support of its partners is so bad that it is not possible to fix it with amendments because in Croatia we need a full change in the direction of this wasteful consumption towards production of new values, new employment, job creation and a rational redistribution of state money for the benefit and progress of all citizens. There is no mention of all this in this draft budget. But unlike some of our colleagues from the ruling coalition, we today decided to speak proactively and offer concrete solutions because it does not help Croatia spread pessimism. Our citizens and citizens deserve better solutions, and these solutions are possible. As a SDP club, we have sent a whole series of bill proposals that we consider to help and speed up the path of the Republic of Croatia towards getting out of this difficult economic crisis. Today, the thesis of ruling that the former Racan government is to blame together with the global economic crisis and that it is necessary to be patient and wait for the recovery of the world market. However, I ask you colleagues and colleagues to stop with those ridiculous thesis that I believe you don't believe in yourself, you just don't have the chance to say anything else. Today we heard all the way here, which has particularly startled me, that 170 million kunas planned for the parliamentary elections are a blow to this budget. I just can't understand that argument. One of the segments that the serious government with serious policy should work on, in my court, is regionalisation, regional development and decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia. For the development and recovery of our country, uniform growth and development and the reduction of development differences in various areas of the Republic of Croatia are unusually important. There should be a vision of development behind each budget, a whole set of public policies such as housing policy, standardisation of public policies, health, education, social and other public policies that we do not have. There is a need to reduce inequality in financing, level and quality of public services. This calls for fiscal decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia and achieving a 20% target of regional and local policy in public revenues. We need a consistent regional policy. Regional policy should exist because there is a huge discrepancy between the regions in the Republic of Croatia in various fields that have a significant impact on the overall well-being of our country. Regional policy exists and should exist because the market alone cannot address the problem of development, i.e. unequal development and imbalances between our regions. Regional developmental disparities in the Republic of Croatia are very pronounced not only between different counties and regions but also within units of local self-government within the regions themselves, and in particular the problem of the centre-periphery relationship is expressed. In peripheral regions, there is a sense of dissatisfaction and imperceptibility more than elsewhere. Live from financial transfers in the form of various support and social benefits which develops addictive mentality and increases the pressure on the budget. There is growing migration pressure on the periphery-centre, and the depopulation reduces the ability to activate development potentials in less developed areas and this is a spiral with no end and from which we do not know how to get out. The concentration of the population of funds in national and regional centres creates significant financial and other costs to increase pressure on infrastructure and the environment. This budget also provides for nothing to increase the low competitiveness of our country, nor for the technological recovery that is needed by its economic development. There are too many measures affecting the fragmentation and depletion of financial incentives and the prevailing share of subsidies and social transfers make it create addictive mentality in developing regions. There are huge deformities in the system of horizontal and vertical support and the huge impact of policy on the distribution of support without clear criteria. Our very low decentralisation rate is only 15% in the Republic of Croatia compared to an average of 30% in the EU and a low fiscal capacity of a large number of local administrations, resulting in a direct double share of local investment in total public investments compared to the EU. The share of local investment in EU countries is about 50%, and in the Republic of Croatia around 25. A large number of units of local self-government are unable to develop an institutional structure and strengthen public capacities for the successful management of development programmes, nor have financial strength and opportunities to co-finance development programmes and projects supported by high-level actors or by the European Funds. Balanced regional development would reduce large, social and economic inequalities, increase regional and local competitiveness and prepare Croatia for effective integration into the European Union and the use of structural funds. In addition, we should encourage and invest innovation, new technologies and products, and encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, in particular those that are export-oriented. It is also necessary to invest in regional local infrastructure, transport, environment, municipal and social activities, launch projects for competitiveness and growth of additional value of regional economies, to launch new technology parks with the support of existing ones. It is necessary to stop the eviction of young qualified people from the least developed areas, by investing in the quality of public services and by providing new jobs in these areas. As regards support for local and regional units, the application of a single criterion for the identification of assisted areas should be a derogation from the national average towards the development index rather than a political criterion. And allow me a little regional perspective from the Istrian perspective. We here who are from Istria are not surprised at the maternal relationship the central state has towards our county. First of all, the draft Budget and other budgets of state-owned enterprises make it impossible to read which projects will be supported by the Government because the budget is roughly not known, for example, which roads will be built or any other infrastructure. The Croatian Roads Plan has no items per project or county, as is the plan of Croatian Waters, Forests and other public enterprises. It is therefore not clear which infrastructure will be financed in Istria or elsewhere. And I guess it's still about a budget that will mark the election year that these money will blend into some areas where there are mostly one kind of voters. Ugly is the word of the species. Interestingly, in the Croatian Roads plan other than that they are not visible projects that will be financed we have an increase for the rolling stock and for the maintenance and construction of business buildings, while the total reduction in road construction is almost 120 million kuna. Another thing that I find fascinating and interesting is that a few months ago, during the rebalancing of the prime minister, we were afraid with an article of 170 million kuna for the implementation of a referendum on work, and today we see in the budget proposal 50 million kuna, planning for a referendum on Croatia's accession to the European Union, so I wonder where you found such a referendum on so much seasonal decline, because otherwise I don't know how it is now reprogramming a three-times cheaper referendum. Therefore, this budget cannot possibly be supported by me, as well as by the rest of my club representatives, this budget should have a vision and a goal, and work on training the revenue side of the budget but we know that Minister Shuker, who has lived a little, is the only way to fill the new borrowing budget, and so knows that some new government, some other minister and some other generation will pay the interest and debts that he has created today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63200	Thank you very much. It is up to the distinguished representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63201	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister. I am pleased that now that we in the Parliament are talking about the budget, that the budget and our economic situation have started to talk and speak intensively these days to prominent experts who, as we warn of a serious situation in Croatia and the unsustainability of such a budget as we are proposed. I'm glad to hear that because when we say it out of opposition, it turns out we're talking because we're an opposition and we're being criticised for being a disaster, when it comes to professional people, then you can see that it really is. I recall that the President of the European Central Bank warns that Croatia is falling into disaster, the governor of the Croatian National Bank warns that our rating, the rating of Croatia, is on the verge, and that we are on the verge of much more expensive duties than those of those days, and besides some government advisers are slowly limiting themselves from what seems to be today. Obviously, Croatia is in a good situation at all and these warnings are only good for those who want to hear them. When we only say that out of opposition, then it's not good, because it turns out that the opposition is only there to criticize. The crisis is obviously evident in us, that the slowest way to recover is from all the transition countries and countries in our environment, and that's something we're warning. The fact that Croatia needs safe cuts and reforms might not be good for HDZ and the ruling parties in this House in the short term, but for Croatia and its citizens it would certainly be good. I don't think there should be a dilemma as important as possible, whether it's important that something be good for the ruling parties and HDZ, or whether it matters what's good for the whole country and for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This Budget shows that Croatia will again enter into a new debt of 14 billion kuna and it is not a problem when creating a deficit they have other countries, it is a question of where the money is spent, whether it goes into consumption or into new development, unfortunately for us it does not go into new development but goes into consumption and the result will be that the next budgets of both the next governments and the next generations will return what Croatia is borrowing today. We do not all live the same in this Croatia, and not all those who do, nor the whole economy, some live better, some live worse, economic policy and this government allows them to do so. Let's see who made a big profit last year. It's mostly the financial sector, mostly banks, which are mostly owned by foreign banks, so foreign legal entities, and somewhere in last 2009 the banks made a profit of 4.5 billion kuna. On whose account, on behalf of the citizens, at the expense of the Croatian economy, at its high interest rates. These high interest rates threaten economic development, threaten economic recovery because there is no economy, there is no serious company in the world that can build development at interest rates of 80 or more, it is known that in new development, quality development can go with cheap capital, affordable capital that is around 4, 5 or 6%. It is therefore necessary to influence certain economic policy measures to lower interest rates in order to help the economy. I remind you that in February of this year, the SDP submitted a request to tax the high interest the government refused. We're going to restart it because without it obviously we're not going to get to cheap capital, and without it, there's no new development cycle. And for citizens, it's important not only for the economy, especially today when the standard of citizens is falling more and more. When it comes to the economy, it is especially important for a medium and small economy that is more difficult to deal with these situations on the financial market, because large entrepreneurs are managing themselves. They can provide credit lines both outside Croatia while small and medium entrepreneurship is condemned to such interest rates as there are. Therefore, this government does not deserve to continue working because it does not solve a number of problems and the one I was talking about. What do you need to do next? It is necessary for this budget to be such that it is sustainable, that it primarily respects the current economic situation. Therefore, those who want to work and those who have strength and ideas must be assured by their economic policies that they can do business. First of all, those who want to invest should be disbursed in a way that all those assets that are invested that are reinvested to free the profit tax and thus give the economy a swing to start. Without a swing of the economy without new employment, we will not be better off in the short term or in the long term. The state must invest in infrastructure, so the state is not an entrepreneur but must meet the conditions that entrepreneurs work better, as we built Croatian highways should invest in railways, in energy capacity, invest in agriculture but, above all, in agricultural infrastructure in irrigation and the like, it is necessary to provide farmers with the conditions that they can in some way be competitive to European farmers but not only give incentives but also create a prerequisite for them to be competitive together today, as are European farmers. So, none of what I said to the government most of them, and that's why this government doesn't deserve to stay. We don't know if the government wants to admit it, but the citizens are sure to see it. So we need to start operating differently the assets that the state has. Every asset benefits, every company is set up to benefit from it, and only state-owned enterprises benefit the state and these citizens, but when we look at the list of state-owned companies, we see that these lists are less losers and that's not good. And instead of hiring people to bring a new economic cycle and the development of states, they have to be rehabilitated. Why is that? Probably because it is so set up that these companies can do so and that these administrations can do so and that nothing happens to them. Obviously, it does not set firm targets for this administration that it must ensure profitable business, that it must be competitive for others in its environment. Clearly, such goals are not set, and they behave accordingly. It is obvious that other objectives are that they meet certain coalition interests to serve to place certain people on certain functions, to hire certain people, to draw money for these or those needs mainly not transparently and not to operate profitablely and to bring benefits to themselves but also to the owner of the state or to all citizens. Although not all of them are the same, we can see that there are companies in the same dam that do positive business and those that do not. It means that one who can and wants to work where the management is doing his job responsible that he can certainly do it. Therefore, it is necessary to restructure that part of the economy. Strengthen the responsibility of the administration and give them a clear task which is theirs to ask them for an absolutely more efficient business and to bind their responsibility for such business. Therefore, the objective should be to ensure that they are not a budgetary burden but rather to bring benefits to both the budget and the entire Croatian economy and all Croatian citizens. That's when it comes to state property. However, citizens' assets should also be treated differently, we see that there are no changes in the budget again. The state must tax the excess property that is not necessary for basic care of housing needs. We're one of the few transition countries that hasn't solved it. And finally, let me just say about certain dilemmas that have been emerging in the media lately. Whether Croatia needs the IMF or not. I think it's a false and unnecessary dilemma. The basic dilemma is whether Croatia needs this kind of government that has put us in a position to discuss whether we need the IMF to edit our things in our house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63202	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's another guarantee coming from the HDZ. The minister says the budget guarantees citizens that they will continue to receive salaries and pensions. And on the other hand, you're saying that all of those who are realists who point to reality, or we mention the real sector and all the troubles out of it, you call us catastrophes, and you label us to scare the citizens. On the other hand, the prime minister actually announced the beginning of a better life, but such announcements are contrary to pessimism coming from highly qualified addresses. But when we look at who we really are, and that's our new blast of layoffs with 30 thousand newly unemployed by the spring, then the armies of those outside the world of work, these are pensioners and unemployed who are already... of the number of those who are still working. And on all of that, we have this undeveloped budget. And we also know that today we have heard from our strategic economics, which means what are the important variables of the budget and economic growth on the other hand fiscal consolidation. However, as said, the deficit cannot contribute to fiscal consolidation and these are very, very important variables of our budget. I'm going to mention once again to Prime Minister Kosor, who announced a light on the end of the tunnel a year ago at the Opatija Conference of Economists. However, after light it is not mentioned, and this year it is mentioned that it is still looking for a way to travel. Therefore, light can only bring structural reforms and investment into the economy. That's what can save us from this crisis. I'm actually going to look back today on social reform. In fact, all governments want to reduce the number of people who depend on social giving, but, of course, in that case, they need to do much, much more work to fix the situation for living opportunities for these citizens. As far as social reform is concerned, the time has come to introduce a coherent and just system, the structured system that our representative Opačić spoke of today, so I will not repeat what she said. In the social care system, in particular, the social assistance system should be reformed, which should, of course, be linked to the incomes of individuals' families and the overall social situation by uniting individual rights and reducing their administration to which our citizens are very often sued, and also by increasing payment control. This budget proposal shows that one large minus, almost the largest minus this year, which is related to income tax, from which 12% of the less funds could be made. When we look at the real reason we're actually expecting more and more, actually, the reason is that it's growing unemployment, and then we can expect more and more people who are actually going to seek social protection. As far as the welfare system is concerned, I think the model needs to be changed systematically so that both the necessary and the public money is approached more responsibly than ever before. In fact, most people who seek social assistance fall into people who have difficulty in functioning. These are persons who can have either psychological or social medical pathology. Thus, they cannot be approached simply by giving them money, of course through consultation procedures. Because we give them money just sending them a message that we actually support that pathology, we don't solve anything. That is why I say that the reform of social care should be structured in another way. As far as reform is concerned, this reform must have guidelines, guidelines must be directed and flexible. There must also be respect for local differences that have been spoken today, so we should leave it to local self-government to make decisions in local self-government because no one else can know better about their fellow citizens than those who lead them. However, local self-government depends naturally on money, depends on autonomy, depends on responsibility, which is why it is seen what local self-government is and we cannot allow it in such cases to centralise functions without conducting fiscal decentralisation. Therefore, it is necessary to further strengthen the fiscal capacity of units of regional self-government, of course as founders of new institutions, introduce financial incentives, tax incentives even for private investors who can bring a new policy of financing the accommodation of users to homes for old and powerless, as well as the financing of home assistance services, etc. I am a supporter of extra-institutional concerns, however, I did not find in the budget any item on living room for older people who proved to be an excellent way of extra-institutional care. Therefore, I must say that the reform is implemented in half, concerns exclusively the restructuring of the state institutions of the social care centre and the homes of social care. In my opinion, however, it is too shallow and too simple. It is not clear whether the system will change in the part relating to changes in the principle of helping with the financial assistance that I have mentioned as services where there is networking between the government and the non-governmental sector. The question really arises as to what is the role of local self-government and whether we will remain in a strictly centralized, expensive and tropical system. Even today, when Mr. Milinovic was a minister when he was actually manifesting himself at one point, he was not manifesting himself about decentralisation, although it was announced in 2011. Since he didn't say anything about it, I wonder if he gave up decentralisation in social care reform. And one more thing, I haven't seen a budget anywhere, and I haven't seen a defense building in Dubrovnik that we're working as a local self-government together with the Department of Defense. Eight years waiting, 82 defenders waiting for their apartment. Here's a colleague of Dubravka Shuica was mayor, so she knows that it wasn't even during her term of office that it actually couldn't have gotten to that building. We're like the local self-government of our own we've done, but there's nowhere in the budget. There's no Dubrovnik High School, there's no gym in Dubrovnik High. Here's a colleague who was the principal of that high school. She knows how much that gym needs. No highway, no fast road, no projects. I know it's patient-saved, but I understand it's a matter of patience, but today the lobbys are also mentioned. The only thing left for me to do is ask our MPs on the other side to make one lobby to go look for our area of this project. Of course I join my colleagues, I don't accept this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63204	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the 2011 Budget, which the HDZ Government offers, above all, is marked by extremely small incomes that are significantly less than expenditure and a budget deficit of over 15 billion kuna, which will likely be met by a new debt next year because we are already used to it. I must say that the revenues are reduced to the level of revenue from 2007, and this is not by chance because it reflects the real economic situation in which the Republic of Croatia is located. The ruling party's huge decline in income justifies, of course, the financial crisis that has come from outside, which has been imported, does not actually want to admit that it is an economic crisis, of the deep economic crisis here in the Republic of Croatia. So that's ours, first of all, the domestic crisis. However, in the SDP, we believe that the problem in the economic policy of this government is because the Economic Recovery Programme that this government has brought first of all has been adopted too late with a large number of bad measures, above all I mean crisis tax, an increase in VAT rates from 22% to 23%, and a delay in implementing certain measures of economic recovery. What is necessary and what this government should have done, and it is not that it creates a presumption of tax redistribution of the economy above all, as well as of Croatian citizens. The Croatian economy is overburdened by the various parafiscal intrusions it has around 240 registered somewhere, and the government boasts that it has abolished several of these parafiscal duties. I'm only thinking one-five. So what kind of help is this, I wonder, in the Croatian economy? Not at all. The Croatian economy is also overloaded by contributions and there is a need for reform, primarily the pension system and of course the health system. Employers in our country at the gross labour price, so workers' salary must pay even a health contribution which otherwise does not charge most of the countries in Europe a health contribution at all. Also, the contribution to pension insurance is too high. We know we have the first and second retirement pillar. The big problem that arises and will arise in the future is the problem of the second pension column where the singles are too small. It amounts to only 5% and the government has done absolutely nothing, and it is obliged and should in any case reform the meaning of the second pension column above all increasing the amount of the contribution to be paid. We already have experience today that those Croatian citizens who retired, meaning who they were, were paying into the second pension column have 500 to 600 kuna less pensions than those so-called. Senior pensioners. And what's even more tragic is that Croatian citizens had to be all those who are sixty years old and younger, so they had to enter the pension column even those funds were designated where they had to apply, while they didn't know anything about what was going on with their funds. Although they receive annual reports, we must say that the second pension column is how it is imagined and how total failure is carried out. So, what I said was a key economic discharge, but it's certainly a change in tax policy. First of all, the decommissioning of work because the Croatian economy with so much pressure is not and cannot be in any way competitive in Europe. First of all, labour is taxed in the Republic of Croatia, and property is hardly taxed at all. It is necessary to transfer part of the tax burden, i.e. to stimulate the reinvestment of profits in development and thus to detimise extraction and transfer and profit, i.e. capital income into consumption, most often in fact to luxury, and capital outflow abroad. Also, the profit tax rate which is unique today means that it is the same for all activities, according to the SDP proposal, should be differentiated and thus introduce more tax tariff systems, first and foremost according to activities, and could then be stimulated by a smaller tax rate, for example, small entrepreneurship, and by manufacturing and export-oriented entrepreneurs. The SDP has proposed and proposed disbursement of labour prices and taxation of wealthy citizens in the Republic of Croatia who have exceptional value, could say enormously large assets, property of enormous value in which they do not live, which are not used for production purposes. We suggested taxation of income from capital. First of all, I think of dividends in profits based on shares in capital, interest and others. However, the ruling party included all of our legal proposals that we made during the year 2008 only on the agenda. We've been discussing some, some of us haven't. So she just wouldn't listen to us and wouldn't accept anything. She didn't want to accept things from the SDP, some of the things we suggested, because they, of course, gave as their legal proposals again. In that part, we need to change, and we do not want new taxes, but rather a replacement in the matter of which we will disburse the economy and Croatian citizens above all. It's a reflection of this government's poor policy, and above all, this fall in income that I've been talking about. Then more than 300,000 unemployed Croatian citizens, about 70,000 people who do not pay in Croatia today, who do not receive salaries. So there's no income from taxes or contributions to the state budget. Furthermore, the introduction of a crisis tax has further impoverished poor Croatian citizens and has reduced their personal consumption and thus the revenue from the base of the tax which should have been filled with the state budget has also been left behind. All these movements suggest that we will continue to have a tax drop and that both income tax and income tax, as well as contributions. Because if there is no new employment, if people are left without a job it is clear that simply the revenue side of the budget cannot be increased. It can only be smaller during 2011, or even worse than in 2010. The government does not have an answer to this problem in this budget, so obviously it does not care about the increase in income, because the deficit will compensate anyway as I have already said in the opening of the new borrowing. Well, we can't, I must say, the external debt of the Republic of Croatia at this point amounts to more than 45 billion kuna, euro. I'm sorry, it would be good if it were kuna, so it can't expect a better situation when our liquidity is growing from month to month. Nobody pays anyone almost, they don't pay their entrepreneurs to each other, and of course they don't pay their obligations to the state. The inequitability in Croatia today amounts to 33 billion unpaid liabilities. Today is the rule, unfortunately, that taxes are not paid to the state. It'll be paid last, if of course there's funds, and there's no funds. I wonder why the state is not effective in charging its revenues, such as effective banks. On the other hand, because of the inefficient judiciary, which is again the problem of this country. Entrepreneurs who owe each other, means that they have certain claims against other entrepreneurs, do not dare and do not wish to accuse those claims primarily because of high court fees, and also because of the length of the proceedings being conducted. So it turns out it doesn't make any sense at all, but to sue for some of the money he owes him. And private citizens rightly expect the government to solve the problem, create conditions for normal business. Because today in Croatia these conditions do not exist. This situation in Croatia is unsustainable, and nothing is actually being done. This is one of the main reasons why companies are shut down and workers are fired. That's what I think the government should be interested in, but unfortunately that's not the case. This budget is only a copy of the 2010 budget and certainly cannot bring economic growth in 2011, and the deficit as well as further growth of public debt certainly cannot contribute to fiscal consolidation. This budget means only extending the agony of the Croatian economy, and the agony of Croatian citizens. Yesterday, Prime Minister Kosor said in her speech when she explained the budget that what she guaranteed and which is certain in 2011 that there will be no reduction, or reduction of salaries and pensions, and that there will be no reduction of social benefits, and that some will even increase. However, she forgot that during 2009, so last year, the salaries of civil servants and tenants were not harmonised according to the collective agreement, so they did not grow 6%, so it does not mean that it is already, that the state services and the tenants lost those 6% last year, will lose 6% this year, so that is 12%. There's also no... Retirement. [[You don't understand.]] Apparently, Prime Minister Kosor forgot about it. And finally, and I have to say Mr. Shucker's words that on-call catastrophes leave the citizens alone, so he wanted me to say that we're probably simply scaring the citizens out of opposition, in a way that means he's already trying to get in front of the criticism. But I don't think the same thing can help Mr. Shucker, because Croatian citizens are very aware of the situation in the Republic of Croatia today. First of all, they trust independent economic analysts, trust Governor Rohatinski above all, and less trust the Croatian government. Thank you very much. There's more, but.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63206	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63207	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, here are the few ministers, the Secretary of State. Discussing the state budget, we all point out that it is the most important document that can be found in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, precisely because the current state of affairs in the country is best seen in the state budget, but also the programme priorities, the activities that the government will take in the next year, but based on projections and priorities and activities in the three-year period. The proposal for a budget for next year, unfortunately, is just a perpetuation of last year's budget. Unfortunately, the last sentence refers particularly to the budget aimed at education, science and technology. My colleagues and colleagues, a reasonable country in every situation and especially in a situation of crisis, are investing in people, investing increased in an education system that is actually the only one in the long term through a change in the qualification structure and then the resulting economic structure leads to growth. So the only truly reasonable decision in the long term, one really reasonable commitment that makes no mistake, is investment in education. And it's completely wrong to claim that investment in education is a cost. For education to cost, quality education costs even more, but the price of uneducatedness, the price of reduced investment in education is much higher. In that sense, I think that no one today should question the fact that the poor qualifications structure of the population, and I think that we can, but we also have to agree that the strategic task of all of us is to repair this poor qualification structure of the population, and actually enable people to create new values, that they can actually develop companies based on knowledge and only then can we talk about the knowledge society. So colleagues and colleagues, if we really care about ourselves, but our children should invest more in education. Given Croatia's lagging behind in financing education, additional financial efforts should be made to reach EU member states. It is generally known that the growth of the education and science budget of at least 15% a year may lead us to the educational separation rate that the European countries had in 2002. Therefore, the minimum is to respect our realities, our difficult situation, our crisis, yearly increase the education budget by 10%. Now, I don't think it's going to do much if we don't deal with these resources wisely, thoughtfully and rationally. In this context, the structure of the education budget needs to be significantly reorganised, which must be the consequence of the imaginary strategic policy in education, which, unfortunately, we have not had too often. What and how should we do? I'm going to say five concrete proposals, which is what I think is most important. First of all, the immediate adoption of the national curricula. We have a framework curricula which is a good basis, but we don't actually have a basic document for the personal and secondary education system. The curricula is important because all makeup in education has no meaning if and until the substance is reformed, what is taught in school, and the way it is taught in school. Contents should be relieved of unnecessary and outdated contents, methods to innovate, and the entire system facing outcomes. In terms of budgeting and rational handling of citizens' money, the future must not be allowed to experiment with expensive projects of a type of HNOS, which did not bring much, but therefore disproportionately cost a lot, which had neither scientific justification nor professional expertise and then practical implementations. Second, perfecting teachers and teachers. I've said it a few times here, so I repeat today. We colleagues and colleagues can pass excellent laws, we can make great strategies, we can bring national curricula, but things in school are simple which makes them paradoxically infinitely complicated. When the school bell rings, the teacher and teacher are alone in the classroom in front of children and only that teacher and teacher about his education, his motivation depends on whether or not we actually realize the goals. So education is a key investment in people, teachers and teachers. I understand that the financial situation is difficult, but the salaries of teachers and teachers are today below the level of average salaries in other public services, almost the average of salaries in the state, although they are exclusively highly educated people, or almost exclusively highly educated people. The height, or rather the level of salary of an educator, is a public shame for a country that likes to beat itself to the point of being a state or a society of knowledge. On the other hand, the funds for the professional training of teachers and teachers in the budget are almost regular and are reduced by some evil plan from year to year. In 2011 10% minus, and in budget rebalances and those famous redistributions that go past the Parliament are almost abolished. We didn't see that once. So our people, our teachers, our school teachers are running away. We're gonna get in a situation where no one at school is just gonna want to work for us anymore. It was, and it's a famous story, Aristotle has, in his time, concluded that if there is no carpenter in Athens that the Athenians will walk barefoot, but if there is no teacher there will be no Athenian. I might not be so pessimistic about things, but investing in teachers and teachers is not just a sectoral and trade union issue, it must become a first-class national issue. Third, school equipment and full application of pedagogical standards. I think this task is clear in itself, but it should be pointed out that we simply cannot allow our children in different parts of Croatia to go to school in so many different conditions. Some schools look like spaceships when compared to other schools where children and teachers fear for their own safety, ceilings fall, floors fail. And a simple investment in full application of pedagogical standards and in school equipment is an absolute necessity. And in connection with the equipment of two information notes. One, it's great to have a smart record school. It is great to put computers and other information equipment in schools, but colleagues and colleagues without educational software and expensive bins are useless. And simple information in education means not to suffer school with information equipment, but also to develop educational software to simply use new technologies to innovate ways of learning and teaching. And secondly, many colleagues and colleagues in education, but also in the rest of the state and state service and public services, can be saved by using an open opposite of licensed software. We've been paying expensive licenses for years, mostly one company, we're almost a colony of a multinational, although there are exactly the same functional, completely free information programs that do the exact same thing. Just by saving on licenses, I think we'd get enough money for many things we're talking about today as necessary in education, and not just education, which we're saying isn't enough money. Fourthly, apart from the improvement of the individual and society as a whole, education has another important task or if you want the possibility. Through the education system, we can simply give a better chance of living to some children who are not predisposed to their social environment at the time of their birth, even though they have knowledge and opportunities. And that actually serves the system of social support, scholarships and similar support to break that vicious circle. Our education system today instead of this vicious circle that then constantly spins one and the same circle of people breaks it actually just reproduces it and reproduces it over and over again. Both fifth and last, although not least important, our special attention must be given to those excellent, gifted students, gifted students, excellent students those in postgraduate specializations and the like. And before the conclusion of the debate, a very concrete note relating to the draft budget. We listen to how money is gone and how only priorities are financed. It seems to me that some of the priorities have fallen apart after all. Someone's got pots. A simple example, the Centre for Flooding in Venice sets out 510 thousand kuna, and for the prevention of violence in schools 322 thousand kuna. I mean, I don't know who that flood center is in Venice, but for him, we're giving double as much money as it is to prevent violence. Someone's got a real pot crack. And to finish, the situation in this sector of colleagues and colleagues in Europe is such that if we want to stand in place we have to run if we want to make progress we have to run faster than others. We unfortunately not only don't run faster than others, we're somehow executed at all in finding a course to run on. Or should I quote the Prime Minister, "We're on our way to find a way." My colleagues and colleagues, it's just not good enough. It's just not good enough, and for the future, it's almost fatal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63208	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You yourself have now responded to the part where I wanted to replicate about the Centre for Floods in Venice and a series of similar institutions, institutions, offices and I don't know what not, where big money goes, absolutely by myself unnecessaryly if it is combined with other programs where this money is much more necessary. The only thing that bothers me about your exposure because I thought you might end up with it is that we are now producing and throwing young people into the labour market without being able to get a job on that market. That's the biggest problem. Over a hundred thousand young people at this point who have recently graduated from school or high school or high school and have not been employed. If we count on how much money we've invested in them, parents and states, it's about a hundred billion kunas lying to us in the form of young people on the work desk. No country of 4.5 million people can handle that dead capital. It's something that's absolutely inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63210	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63211	I absolutely agree with you fellow Doric, it doesn't fit everything in 10 minutes, but I mentioned in fact that we don't have strategic policies. We've made a reform of the Bologna process, we've had students of bacalaureus these first-raters who don't recognize the labour market. And we just don't have... systems. This may be the most dramatic, worst example. Unfortunately, we still have such examples. To come up with policies and then rationally implement them then we'd just have money for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63212	State Secretary, Želimir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63213	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would like to respond in a few lines to the respected representative Lugarić for all of these qualifications she has presented, so let me start with this last one she mentioned. I'm sure respected MPs that you know well when it comes to preventing addiction that it's not just the item you found but immediately one activity under that item, which is worth 9 million kuna, and it's about the support of associations, one out of four is the prevention of violence of one quarter of this amount, meaning almost 2 million kuna. Let us add something else. Support to preventive programmes in primary and secondary schools million kuna, funds for extracurricular activities where we rarely have this problem 5 million kuna in the budget. Not to mention further encouraging competitions in the country and international, international Olympics, etc., and I can add to it another part that applies to our co-workers these are leaders of preventive activities in every school in the Republic of Croatia, with the of course employment of professional associates in the past few years so that we do not have a single school without an expert associate and you as a teacher know very well what this means in preventing all these activities. Furthermore, when you mentioned the equipment of schools I will remind you, and here in this House we have had the opportunity to listen very much about the fact that over the past three years 96 million kunas have been allocated to equipping our schools, that they were part of the World Bank loan, and now I will just remind you, I believe that you have also been informed that we have been through three competitions within the IPA project and that our schools have withdrawn something over 10 million euros, of these 10 million euros have gone about 4 million kuna on equipment in our schools, so these are grants. If we turn it into kuna, then it's 30 million kuna, and for professional teaching, which you've also apostrophe from these grenades, the rest of the other 6 million euros is one massive amount. So for the sake of accuracy, let's add this information to everything you've said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63214	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. In fact, during yesterday's debate all day long, there has been said a lot about this budget and something that is almost certain, and what I often use as a basis is one finding by my colleague Marić in one of the discussions of the budgets of previous years, which is that the future is not programmed, it is created. And this 2011 budget is the result of a whole series of "creative activities" in creating, or organising our future in that domain and that segment for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken over its commitment. In fact, the fact is and Minister Schuker often takes it as an argument, and I fully support it in that the figures are very exact information and that the figures tell everything. In 2007, we ended up with 2.2 billion income deficits of 108. So it happened behind what was happening but the fact that in 2010, we're going to end up with 108 billion, means the level of 2007 and the fact that we're going in 2011 with one billion less than we're going to end in 2010. With our 14 billion deficit down by 2010, so from 2 we've come to 14 and the new 2011 is planning a 14.8 billion deficit for us. In other words, the result of the government's four-year work is a total cumulative deficit of 42.43 billion, cumulatively. About the success of the ability, the quality of the information, the quality of the assessment and the present and the future, the mistakes in the future, and the basis of these mistakes in the future, the planning of it, yesterday the club president said there was no point in repeating the story if we planned it two years ago 2011. 140 billion then came 107, so 31% we've misjudged what's an extremely large figure and for whatever external influences and whatever's going on or going on in our environment. But that's our reality, that's something we have ahead of us and that's probably, not very likely, but by the safe will of the majority and will be adopted within a week. Secondly, this budget protects or better can please 1.8 million of our citizens, however, my question and the question of all of us, and it is a question of all those who are not included in those 1.8 million, which is with the remaining two million, which is with those in the real sector, which I can hope for in the real sector in these four years, I will not mention this previous mandate, but I will mention this mandate in which the government, the current composition of the Republic of Croatia is leading this country, is known and everyone is saying that we will be increased and unemployment, all talk and figures say that we are increasing the number of people who are going to retire and, as counterpart Cain says, etc. But in any case, it's extremely questionable and the question is how and in what extent this story of negative trends will end. During today's debates there have been very high-quality proposals, and not only during today's debates, I would like to particularly congratulate my colleague Marić on today's debate, which has been very constructive on all elements and many colleagues. Cha on both sides, however, who is being hunted, no one. The academic community, the professional public, Governor Rohatinski, external associates, everyone, in this budget, does not have that. I will be extremely happy if the realisation or the time that will be the consequence of this budget deprives me as much as any of us. On the use of the 2012 chance, 2013 When we talk about these European Union funds, I think it should be very clear here, I will repeat it again in 2012 almost 0, 2013 maybe something, 2014, 2015 very likely something or almost certain something. We have reduced revenues to units of local and regional administration all information that is important for the structure and according to EU funds is still a state paradise. The regional administration has no idea. In which operational programmes can be included, with which projects, what projects, which are our sectoral strategies based on which we will be able to use European money, is also a secret and at this moment is a great unknown. And I think it's even humiliating to the proven ability and to all the positive actions they have and local ones that the regional administration has, because in that system it's proven that the central state is a bad master of regional and local administration. A young person came to me today. It's by name and last name, I'm not going to read the Minister's address now. I have an obligation to read and read what she wrote. The title is who's the team from Mark's square number two question that doesn't come out of my head today. It is a state budget on the family budget of Croatia. Our government has come up with a proposal, they've managed to agree on all the items in the budget, watch out for all the items. And now I'm interested in actually two questions that I'm interested in. How is it possible that all ministers agreed on an absolutely complete budget as it is? And the second question, which is more important, which I cannot find a meaningful answer to under the roof of the idea for a better European and richer Croatia is, who are these people who could take a healthy mind to raise their hand for possible bankruptcy in Croatia? Something that I'm especially undermining. To pull the parallel. With an orderly system of supervision and control which seems a little idealistic to me, the Parliament and the Government should agree to give in to each other and seek compromises and listen to useful advice and therefore bring the state budget. I can hope so utopianly that it will come to this session of the Parliament when this draft budget will be voted on. However, the finding, an impossible mission. And to return now to the question from the beginning of the story. Ministers in our government all so powerful with a palette of advisors, assistants and secretaries and deputies ruled Croatia. We go straight to the abyss along with all the counties with all the state institutions, institutions, organizations and offices. Falling into the water all working days which are Croats tirelessly earning bread to pay tribute to the state for better tomorrow. What tomorrow? Tomorrow when he comes to the locked door of his company, when he comes to pawn the key to his home at the bank, when he will have to explain to his child that school books are a luxury that not everyone can have. And tell me if that's the one we're voting for today's budget. And not to read any further. Thinking whether it's funny to you isn't funny, is it? It's the thinking of a young person who's a college student at the age of 5. I was particularly impressed by this part. She hopes that the Parliament and the government will agree and give in to each other, seek compromises and listen to helpful advice. Is this the result and the title of the debate message, and today has become according to these young people? We didn't. And final. Surely the majority in this House will support this budget. But again, as I said yesterday morning at the Committee on Finance, the adoption of this budget is a kind of violence against the citizens of this country. And such violence requires very serious therapy and certainly electoral. And when I say electoral that that future government that has to make moves that this government missed in 2 terms gets its electoral legitimacy, because this government doesn't have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63216	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. "Here we are on our way to finding a way out of the crisis" to quote but rather I would say that the continuation is not on the way out of the crisis, but to find a way out of this budget, which is the way to collapse. And here are the announcements that we read and that we listen to, whisper, harrakes continue to insist on other types of hackers in order to make a lot of state or budget of local administrations, and actually this government with its budgets and policies has mostly annulled or ruined our winning past and already spent the future. When I say ruined and cancelled past, then I mean some items that show up in this budget. Here's just for a little shorter examples. In fact, the state budget includes a state-owned asset maintenance item, and state-owned assets include houses and apartments to which the APN purchased in areas of special state concern, which fail whether they have been emigrated or unmoved. I don't care about that. It's still in action. But when it's offered to the exiles for ransom, then I have to say here that I have information to make for example. The beach square meter of such an apartment or house offers 700 euros per square meter. Well, now if these exiles can buy it for 700 euros per square metre, which is approaching the price in some large cities in the Republic of Croatia, then I really don't know what to say. Furthermore, the draft state budget also includes funding for national population policy. However, where Croatia should clump to young people, our people, so the emigrated Croatians, are generally driven in a way from these areas. All of this contributes to the work of poor labour and the State's Attorney's Office which is responsible for the recording of state property. And so people who moved or came to Croatia definitely go abroad and abroad forever. Nobody cares about that. Furthermore, I have witnessed a request for charity for the Memorial of the Storm in Knin, although this same government in the budget last year, this year has set out for the Memorial in Serbia for those who slaughtered the priest and slaughtered in 1941 the Croatian population of Borčevec and the eastern part of Like, so the monument was erected to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of the taxpayers therefore singled out more than 3 million kunas. For a monument in Knin, I don't know if there's an item, so the Storm Memorial in Knin is supposed to be built in Knin. Here's what I'd say a little bit about the past, even though there's more. For the future that he said I would have already spent, and it was spent through the borrowing of the Republic of Croatia and the borrowing of this Government and this minister, if he calls it not a debt, that neither I know what it is, if it is borrowed, then he must return, if it is borrowed, then it must be paid off. So these debts and these multibillion-dollar loans, tens of billions of euros will bring back our future, our children and our grandchildren. How and from what when 100,000 young people with medium professional equipment were either high or high professional, they were called codareus or doctors of science, etc. He's working on stock exchanges. What this government doesn't care about, I repeat what I said in some replicas, an increase in the revenue side of this budget. Clearly, no one is against stopping the spending side, but here on the expense side should be clearly buried, buried deeper in so-called. Expensive structure, consumption structure because there are many unfair and unjust social and some other savings expenditures in the state administration that could bring billions and billions of savings. Indeed, the fascinating consistency of this government is in the implementation of its programme, and it is truly fascinating how much resistance and how much insubordination or any consideration of the proposals that come from anywhere where there are well-intentioned proposals, and indeed, the Government and ministers do not respect it. Here in the budget is projected for 9 million kuna less demining funds for mine-contaminated areas in the Republic of Croatia. Is that the fifth speed, is that just a patch that was said to be financial crisis? In fact, I think that the agony of Croatia continues and that this budget in this sense does not lead to much improvement but is actually one political stand by until the next parliamentary elections instead of another stand by, which some economic experts advocate, and I mean the International Monetary Fund and known arrangements in this regard. This is indeed one political stand by, and brimstoned or as it is said by pass with some lack of 14.8 billion kuna which will again come when our minister goes around the world with expensive interest somewhere and we will either have to rebalance again in the spring and then again in the late, late summer and autumn, and so as I called the agony of the Republic of Croatia, young people in the Republic of Croatia, and I would almost say all citizens continue slowly and permanently. Therefore, according to the president of the HDSSB club, Mr Buric, it will not be for this budget because this budget actually confirms the stagnation of the Republic of Croatia, and today in modern times when both the surrounding countries and other countries have a significant growth of the gross social product actually means a decline. Every day in every way, obviously, even with this budget that will certainly be adopted by the Parliament majority, obviously we are going backwards. I took when I came to the Croatian Parliament for this session proposals for 200 projects in terms of amendments, which are projects proposed by 65 municipalities, 12 cities and 3 counties from the 5th constituency. Since this is the state of the spirit and this state of mind in the ruling coalition, such complexity in this stand by the budget of the HDSSB will not propose any of these amendments, and we had 200 of them, concerns three counties in Slavonia and Baranja, hence Požega-Slavonska, Brod-Posaviska and Vukovar-Srijem County. Thank you very much, and I hope you don't budget for 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63218	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mario Habek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63219	Dear Vice President, representatives of the Croatian government, respected colleagues and colleagues. The government has recognised by this budget that there is no development policy because this budget is almost identical to last year's budget. The Government also sends us with this draft budget a message that there is no will, no knowledge, no capacity, no courage for reforms, also for reducing public spending and that it intends to do everything in the old way. When the SDP wins in the next parliamentary elections, it will change the way it works. We will encourage the development of the economy, bring back 80,000 workers to work who have lost their jobs due to the inability of this government and realise capital projects that would facilitate the conditions of creating a new value. This budget will not be developed as well as the past because its main generators over the past seven years have been mostly large infrastructure and external borrowing. Both have reached its highest level, and that direction simply can't do it anymore. The budgetary policy of our government obviously does not respond to these challenges, but insists on the global crisis behind which it hides, or behind which it hides its electoral budget. Except behind the crisis, he hides it behind the European Union. It is the same with the regional policy of this government where we failed to escape a large part of the European Union's financial assistance from pre-accession funds. In fact, the process that began back in 2003 was in the framework of the CARDS 2002 project A strategy to strengthen capacity for regional development as well as the adoption of the Regional Development Act that was recently adopted. Since the first draft of the Regional Development Strategy was completed in October 2005, the issue of the government's ability and political will is being raised and nearly five years have waited for the law to be adopted and applied. We have thus lost a large part of the funds from the pre-accession European Union funds. However, the law that is now in force has great shortcomings and is not good. Among us close countries that have adopted such laws, we can mention several countries, especially Hungary, which adopted it in '94. year, Slovakia 2001, Slovenia '99. the year and the adoption of the Regional Development Act allowed them to develop the necessary structures, gain experience in planning and development management, and to adapt overall regional policy management, their own administrative tradition and development objectives, unlike Croatia which recently adopted this. One reason for the subsequent adoption of this law is probably that the main objective of such a law is to achieve unsustainable economic and social development across the whole state territory, and to allocate money according to the regional and county development index, rather than political similarities. However, while the law still exists, we can say that it does not apply because it remains financial support for regions and counties is going on a unfortunately political similarity. When the SDP comes to power, we will change such a policy of distribution of state money and decentralise it. This means that we will help the counties, municipalities and cities according to the development index, not the political resemblance. The Republic of Croatia has been divided into three statistical NUC regions since 2007. It is northwestern Croatia, Pannonian and Adriatic Croatia. To conduct regional statistics for cohesion policy purposes, to advise on selecting, designing and monitoring the implementation of more counties of statistical region projects and joint development projects. One of the problems facing regions, counties, local self-government units is to ensure and co-finance projects that will be selected for implementation, since unlike us neighbouring countries, our Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy has not provided a fund from which a central level would help in terms of co-financing of projects. Without such a fund, a large number of projects will not be able to be implemented and the Republic of Croatia will not succeed in withdrawing as much funds from the European Union as we are offered. Unlike this government, the new government headed by the SDP will set up a fund to assist and co-finance projects. As an example of good practice in this regard, we can single out the Republic of Slovenia which provides 10% co-financing on cross-border projects with the Republic of Croatia, and the beneficiary of the funds must only provide 5% of his own funding. The Croatian partner must ensure 15% since we do not have the means to co-finance. The next example of good practice in Italy, where all the necessary 15% co-financed for selected projects in the Cross-border Cooperation Programme is ensured. This should change and help users in co-financing in a greater proportion than it is now. Another problem is the financing of project documentation as it is required that the projects applying for European funds are ready, i.e. they have all the necessary permits before their application. This government has not provided the means to prepare the necessary documentation for certain strategic projects that will report to the Structural and Cohesion Funds after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. Without providing these funds at national level, it is unrealistic to expect a larger number of regional and local projects that will be ready to report since units of regional and local self-government will not be able to finance the necessary project documentation on their own. We need to help units of local and regional self-government to complete the project documentation and welcome European funds. But this government doesn't care about that. The government's main job is further borrowing. Our external debt is 100% of GDP, we have no employment, inefficient, unfair fiscal policy, excessive imports, poor exports and non-transparent spending of money from the state register are, in fact, the bad economic policy run by this government. This policy is unsustainable and needs to be changed as soon as possible. We have reached almost 50 billion euros in external debt and a huge internal debt that is largely indivisible. The result, of course, is a strong drop in purchasing power, a drop in production, an increase in unemployment despite experts' warnings, the warnings of the opposition have lagged behind the right measures to mitigate the crisis. Then, this government deceived the public when it came to the cost of a referendum on the Labour Law. I will quote the prime minister who recently said here in the Parliament: "And finally 300 million kunas must be further provided as compensation for damages to the elemental disasters and the implementation of the referendum." So, on the basis of the same Act on Labour, the amendment of the Labour Act for which one political scene has agreed that it should not be changed and we have now come to the conclusion that a referendum should be implemented and money should be provided, which is 170 million kuna. You even accused the SDP of being against the referendum because it would not support such budget rebalance. I'm asking you today, where's the money? Where it went and spent 170 million kunas in the budget for 210 years, and how now the referendum in 2011 predicted 50 million kunas. How is it that a referendum suddenly takes 120 million kunas less than a month ago? And so we unilaterally conclude that you cheated on the public, blamed the others and spent money on something else. This is just another one of the spins you've been doing forever, but that's gonna end. In any case, I am convinced that we have almost reached the end of the road and that after the next parliamentary elections, Croatian citizens will get a new government headed by the SDP that knows and which shows how well they work and get the country out of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63220	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63221	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear few colleagues. But I think we're the others who think there's something else to say about this budget, and what I'm going to talk about today is health care. And health care at this point according to this budget that is ahead of us, which I don't doubt will be adopted, it lacks 700 million kuna, and we don't know the real vision of that health care, nor do we have a real developmental vision of the budget itself. But imagine a situation in which you come to a doctor of general practice without waiting. Let's call it, set an appointment, you've got a well-involved nurse waiting for you, a doctor has plenty of time for you, there's no traffic in the waiting room, there's plenty of time to examine you, and he's not sure what's going on with you, so he's sending you on again for searches that are amazing but you don't have to wait. You don't have to wait 300 days, you don't have to wait 600 days, and then it's estimated that you have to go to the hospital, and yet there's a bed waiting for you, a neat, fully equipped facility, doctors taking care of you, professionally and consciously staff, and what's the same for you to believe that you've got all this in a health care package or it's possible with one small surcharge, because who wouldn't pay, because health doesn't have a price. Here I haven't convinced a single episode of our popular Dr. Housea, which revolves on our televisions, but I am talking about the opportunities that exist in Croatia, whether they believe or not, are being implemented in some hospitals, believe or not, but not because Minister Milinović is headed, or not because we have a health budget that can enable us, but simply because there are still healthy parts of this system that meet the health needs of our citizens. Some of these visions are unfortunately realized at this time in private clinics, clinics and future hospitals, but why not also in the healthcare system. Well, probably because I'm a health care system right now and I'm suffering from an organization crisis, not from a money crisis, but from a money crisis, and there's a problem with how things are organised. Minister Shuker likes to hear it, but health care costs and health care needs to be paid, but health care needs to be organised, and it should be organised in a way that there is one particular vertical that starts with primary health care and ends with hospital health care. What the SDP advocates is that everyone has the right to health care, that all of this health care should be equally available, that primary health care should respond to what it is paid for, and that means that over 80% of things should be resolved in primary health care, that health homes become the right homes of health, not at this moment what this health administration is trying to do to become just health homes with the director, the ficus, the driver and the secretary. So in this home of health you should have a complete health care service and a health care home should take care of the population that is gravitating that home of health, which means that within the home of health you should have everything that these citizens need for quality and adequate health care. Just to say that in the home of health for which the SDP stands, there should be both an X-ray and a pharmacy and a centre of home visits and a mental health centre and all that, and a large polyclinic in which, for example, the needs of internal protection, ophthalmological, dermatological, etc. should be met. It's a concept that goes to citizens not to travel to a doctor, but to be a doctor among citizens. Unfortunately, at this moment with this health administration and with this kind of budget that is ahead of us, which is basically going more to equip health institutions, to buy equipment and deploy non-transparently and non-critically across Croatia, we are far from that concept. After home health, if you do not receive adequate health care, there are county hospitals that should also meet the needs of the population who are gravitating, means over 80%, and in these homes, and in these hospitals should have the same guaranteed health care. And what does that mean? This means that if you need surgery bile, it is the same quality in the hospital in Gospić, and in the hospital on Rebr, and in the hospital in Osijek. According to what we see from this budget where certain hospitals are favored, and some forget, we are also far from that concept of equating the quality of health care. At the top of the pyramid, there should be regional centres, which should take care of specific problems, and clearly that Croatia, like all other countries, should have one national hospital. All this requires the rationalisation of the system, one county should apply one hospital, but all this would not work if there were no decentralisation of funds, and that the funds should not be decentralised and dropped to the level of those who best know how to care for the funds, and that means that the counties that are currently only nominally responsible for their county hospitals, but have virtually no authority, should take care of their hospitals. And just to point out in the health budget is about the emergency medical care system, which is currently at the level of the World Bank's loan, we get some cars, we get, we send people to the world, but let's not forget that at the moment Croatia is well connected to the roads and that you should think about emergency medical care that is European, and that means you should think about it, about transporting patients in the first hour, because it's known that at that payment hour is a chance to survive much bigger than if you pass the time from that one hour. All of this is possible, if there is a will to make things, if there is will and consensus to listen to those who need these services, so is the profession itself. Because health costs, health costs, and lost health is not easy to get back, and so is what we forgot, which forgets this budget, unfortunately forgets the prevention again, because amazingly but true Cuba is the world leader in that area, and for health care it stands out much less than our 20 billion kuna. If you don't believe me, ask the World Health Organization. If Cuba can, why can't Croatia? We have money, we have people, but obviously we lack a system of governance. So prevention is something that we all swear, and everyone knows that it exists somewhere, and all of us who were a little older know that it exists, but these younger generations simply don't know that it exists, because our health system, or the administration that the health system runs, doesn't implement, if they swear to it as... So prevention of home health systems, which will be the primary patient reception network, needs to streamline hospital networks, invest in new knowledge and technology, define a basket or list of basic services to know what we are paying for, manage healthcare funds in good economy manners, and that means going to decentralisation of funds are just some of the elements that should be the basis for the conclusion of the health budget and what is most important at this point, because of our competitiveness we probably have to go in a new way to finance health, the SDP has spoken of that several times. [[You don't understand.]] However, if you are listening to the minister, here at our last Health Committee, honey and milk flow. With less money, we have better health care, the minister is convinced, and unfortunately, not all of us or fortunately, and it turns out that the funds are too large for health care, and on the other hand, each of us knows how much health costs, what condition our health institutions are in. But the criticism and look back won't help us much, it won't help our citizens and it's time to get one guaranteed protection and it's time to get a government that knows how to manage the health system, it's time for the SDP to take over that resort.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63222	So you can take over from the government. Mr. Agent Tonino Picula, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63223	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Here, about an hour and a half ago, distinguished counterpart Goran Maric on TV was asked how to evaluate this year's budget said a sentence which is actually a nice diplomaticly complex evaluation of something very difficult to praise, but here's a quote: "This is the first budget to reflect the fiscal reality of its environment." Dear Marić, if I have listened well to you on television you have just said this and it is a truly envious attempt to give a relatively decent assessment of something that can hardly be verified with a positive assessment. On the side of the question, of course, how should we evaluate the seven earlier budgets of HDZ governments? I think the impression remains that this budget is actually one bad prosthesis of one to the end of the fallen policy. And the circumstances in which the budget is proposed and adopted are framed by very hard and worrying facts. Croatia has been facing a decline in economic growth for the second year in a row. After a 5.8% drop in the last year, this year's decline will be 1.5%, and ratings are already being heard that this fall could be greater than that. In late September, nearly 290,000 unemployed were registered, 11.7% higher than in September 2009. There are over 200 workers out of work a day. The unemployment rate is 16.6% and unfortunately rises. The employment rate which is only a more tragic face of the same medal is barely 55%. In response, the Government reduces the amount of unemployment benefits and reduces the time limits for the use of these fees. The union cart for August was 6 thousand 640 kuna, and at the beginning of the year it was 200 kuna less. Prices in Croatia are leveled with prices in the EU, but the average salary in our country is only one third of the EU's average salary. So that average net salary is 5 thousand 391 kuna and covers only 80% of the consumer basket. A year ago the salary was higher than today and nominally 0.4% and realistically 2%. Even 65% of employees have paid below average, and 80% of employees have paid less than the value of a union basket for a four-member family. More than 50% of our fellow citizens who have this "happiness" under allegations that pensioners are around the poverty line with a pension of less than 2,000 and 062 kuna. With only 2 other countries, Croatia alone does not record signs of economic recovery in Europe. Our investments dropped by 25% and our personal consumption by more than 12%. Industrial production fell by 9% last year and 4% in the first half of this year. The competitiveness of the Croatian economy is at the level of the Central Asian countries, not all of them, and all the surrounding countries have passed Croatia according to the degree of competitiveness of the economy. Almost 55% of industrial consumption is imported and only 30% of industrial production is exported. More than 50% of the production is exported for comparison in EU countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Poland. However, the finance minister and the deputy prime minister in charge of the economy called on on-call disaster seekers to spread unfounded panic. He instructed such ones to intimidate their party colleagues and leave the citizens alone if I quote correctly. So that someone wouldn't think I was a stranger like him, I'd say what our situation is foreign, not domestic so-called. The catastrophes in which they connect just before, in fact, the unpleasant facts. So, I quote: "Just a few hours after the government presented the draft budget to the IMF, it gave its final statement after visiting Croatia. And this time, they stressed the necessity of implementing reforms. Croatia's poor macroeconomic prospects in the medium term can only be improved by far-reaching reforms. Structural weaknesses seen in low competitiveness and high structural budget deficits are likely to bring an extended period of slow growth and debt growth." It stands in the IMF's closing statement. Furthermore, "Croatia does not realise its potential and does not have the growth rate it should have," World Bank Director for Central Europe and Baltic Peter Harold told reporters after visiting Zagreb. Croatian Central Bank Governor Zeljko Rohatinski told Croatian media that European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet warned him that the current combination of negative trends would lead to serious economic problems in Croatia. I think he even used the word disaster, but I'm not sure. Finally, but not least, Stephen Fuller, Commissioner of the European Commission for Enlargement, announced how until March 2011. Croatia will not be given the date of conclusion of the negotiations and the date of entry into the EU, but will then be tried according to the results. And when we talk about the results, it would only single out two sectors of the domestic economy that have a chronic burden on both the employed population and the faster conclusion of accession negotiations with the EU. Agriculture is a more serious problem for Croatia than the currently most exposed brakes of the shipbuilding and judicial process. Therefore, because it really requires painful cuts and dramatic changes that have already occurred. Politics and political interests have denied sector reform and made it difficult to adapt agriculture in the Union's conditions. In turn, the EU has already adopted financial frameworks for the first 2 years of Croatia's membership in the Union, according to which farmers can count on subsidies equal to those of their colleagues in other primary new and newest members. This money will be made available to Croatia, and it does not know it so far and cannot be spent. Croatia is expected to make payments by the day Croatia enters the European Union. The European Commission has repeatedly stressed that the entry into the Union does not have an element, particularly with some bad experiences with new members. The system of payments is simple only for transparency and clarity of procedures, therefore, what is not available in Croatia today. The reform of the sector in Croatia is waiting, in addition, for farming with 18 billion kuna invested in incentives to produce less than 5 years earlier, while the product for a fifth is more expensive. The market consumes imported products while the agricultural deficit exceeds 600m euros. Up to an ideal annual income of around 150 thousand euros with a hundred hours of weekly work, the farm family is a great road for farmers in Croatia with 2 to 4 thousand incomes. In addition, a farmer in the European Union pays interest on a loan not more than 4.5% of the subsidized state, mostly 2%, while a peasant in Croatia pays an 8% interest up. Unfortunately, Croatia and its peasants are unprepared for the European Union. European Commission chief negotiator Dirk Lange said in March this year that Croatia is still missing, quoting a reliable system of management and monitoring of budget spending. The Croatian side knows this, but so far it has not gone further than the promise of reform. The still unbuilt administrative capacities combined with the reform are the most visible in agriculture. The latest protests by Croatian peasants confirmed the necessity of reform but that incentives are more a means of buying social peace than a way of encouraging food production and rural development. The second sector, globally looking at Croatia is located at 14 places in the world in shipbuilding by order of load capacity, while the Chinese shipyards record 208 million tonnes of load capacity, 204, as well as Romania 4.3, Turkey 4.2, Germany 2.5, Ukraine 2.2, Denmark 1.8 million tonnes of load capacity, only a million and 600 thousand tonnes of load capacity have been ordered in Croatian shipyards. According to the number of ordered ships in the shipyards Croatia Shipbuilding is located 42 places with ordered 26 ships. As for the guarantees for shipbuilding, the figure amounts to around 12 billion kunas with interest involved. This year, 800 million were charged, scheduled to issue around 4.9 billion kuna guarantees next year, of course when it comes to subsidies, they are prohibited for shipbuilding. The shipbuilding case is an extremely sensitive issue for every government, it is a good example of how it should not wait for the European Union to insist on something that Croatia would do, whether our government or not in public it will be understood that we have reconstructed the shipyards only because the European Union asked us to do so, so it will become the culprit that some shipyards are being shut down despite the fact that they have been dealing with losses paid by taxpayers for years, thus in violation of Croatian competition laws themselves. When it is projected that we are making the most necessary changes for the sake of the European Union, then it is difficult to expect that our public will be in favour of membership in the European Union. But as a result of that, and also all the search for alibis for incompetence, instead of searching for solutions, we are facing increasingly uncertain support for entry into the European Union, which is unfortunately witnessed by the latest Gallup survey conducted in Croatia, which shows something that should be of concern to us regardless of political membership, which is a low support for the entry of the 27th, and that is exactly the country that is probably the richest institutional most ready for membership in this region, for that I see first of all responsibility in the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63224	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The budget is like a ID or an X-ray, one view is enough to get key identity information or health information. What does this proposal show us that we got? I must say that as also a politician, as a parliamentary representative, as deputy mayor of the city of Rijeka, as a doctor, as an ordinary citizen of Croatia and as the way the draft budget came to the Assembly, which was once again shown by the government disdaining parliamentary representatives, as well as by the content of the Budget which shows that the government unfortunately lost its sense of reality. The 2011 budget will bring without any dilemma the threat of the kuna exchange rate, the increase of unemployment, the increase of the problem of non-payment of salaries and pensions, as well as the problem of paying off external debt. And the opening word, and the debate of the current parliamentary majority in the budget, shows that we are indeed on the way to Jadranka Kosor, for Croatia's journey on the road without returning. The question that has often been heard these days is whether Croatia needs the IMF is actually the wrong question, the only real question is whether Croatia needs this irresponsible government, which, despite the warnings of all, continues to run towards disaster. Unfortunately, this government, with its irresponsibility after we lost 400 thousand jobs in the 1990s when criminal privatisation was born to the mother of all corruption, from 2003 to today fed a new corrupt octopus that ate more than 100 billion kuna and irrevocably destroyed an entire state budget, and soon we will have 400 thousand unemployed again. Therefore, there is no dilemma for me that economic bankruptcy, and further moral decline of Croatian politics and societies can only prevent new elections and some new generations of politicians regardless of which parties they came from. The proof of this claim is certainly the 2011 Budget Proposal, which has only one goal, to preserve the chair of the ruling coalition. In particular, the sad behaviour of the HDZ coalition partners acting as autistic tenants of the apartment in a building that is collapsing. The HDZ coalition partners are like tenants whose floor is comfortable, dry, warm and do not care that the building's foundations are damaged, and the roof starts to rain. The budget the HDZ offers is unsustainable and completely missed, it continues the agony of the Croatian economy continues to be wasteful. As early as January 1, 2011 The Croatian state will be minus 15 billion kuna, bringing to the next 364 days in 2011, everyone is clear except for Jadranka Kosor, Ivan Shuker and other members of the ruling coalition. And in that wasteful waste, the only thing he's trying to save is health. Right where any more savings that bring benefits are not possible. Because of the ageing population, because of the long life span, because of new medicines and technological advances, the cost of health worldwide increases 8 to 10% per year. Minister Milinovic is actually acting as a finance minister, not a health minister and once again confirms that there is no strategy in the long term that means improving the quality of health in Croatia. It is also clear to all of us that Dado Milinović is thinking more about the chair of Jadranka Kosor than about health care and social welfare. The health ministry's resources in 2011 are shrinking by 2.7% and HZZO by as much as 480 million kuna. In particular, I stress budget funds for health care investments in infrastructure, in the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Centre, are an absolute insult to KBC employees, as well as to all residents of the districts being treated in KBC Rijeka from Primorje-goranska, via Istria to Lika-Senj County. After 32 million kunas in 2009 and 17 million kunas in 2010, the government proposes only 10 million kuna in 2011 and in 2012 less than 4 million kuna. It is a clear message that from the new University Hospital in Rijeka there will be nothing as long as the health minister is Darko Milinovic. Perhaps if everyone employed in the Rijeka KBC from porters to directors had a fresh chain around the hospital, perhaps Minister Milinovic's language would understand. The most important task of all of us parliamentary deputies, regardless of which parties they were in as well as the Government, no matter what color it belonged to, the Government that corresponds to the Parliament and not the other way around, often seems in the term of this government, is to ensure a greater quality of life in Croatia for all citizens regardless of which one they are. The quality of life in the 21st century presupposes first of all freedom, and the only idea of real freedom is freedom from fear. Such freedom is a security greater than human solidarity. A chance for self-determination and self-confirmation for meaningful use of your own strengths in school, in work, in play, in life together, for participation in culture, the chances of staying or becoming healthy. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, respecting such a set of freedoms, ask all of you, all Croatian citizens, how free are 305,000 unemployed or 85 thousand people who do not get paid even though they come to work neatly every day? Whether 80% of Croatian citizens are free to pay less than the value of a union basket for a four-member family or 90% of pensioners whose pension is not enough for the basic needs of a retirement family. Thus, in order for man to be free, he does not have to be in chains or, for example, in order to be free. in Remetinco, where many of the long list of senior officials from the top of HDZ are rightly located today. precisely because of those who are from the top of the ruling party moved to Remetinec in many Croatian families of governments and fear and freedom. Fear of the inability to educate their own children, of the inability to pay for the director's or the war on housing credit, the fear of health due to too long waiting in the hospital, because of the too long waiting list, the fear of the employer who has justifiably reported by the whistler for unequivocal corruption or fear of journalists from publishers when he writes a true text that the newspaper owner will not like because the newspaper attacked the great advertiser or minister. All that means is there's not enough freedom in a society like that. Freedom of justice for all things is unimaginable if a man can't get a job after finishing school or if he loses his job because of the incompetent, unprofessional and corrupt management of the company he worked in. When a man does not work he is denied for one of the fundamental human rights and dignity and is absolutely unfree. Does the 2011 budget offer us a clear vision of the freedom and quality of life of Croatian citizens? He doesn't offer unfortunately. The budget offered by the HDZ government is unsustainable and completely missed. It continues the agony of the Croatian economy, continuing the waste of the unsuspected, and if Croatia is adopted next year, it will sink even deeper towards a complete economic collapse. The budget offered by HDZ is impossible to fix with tiny amendments, as Croatia needs a change of course and direction of over-inflated wasteful consumption, according to the production of new values, according to new employment, job creation and the rational distribution of state money for the benefit and progress of all citizens. this budget does not offer. This budget continues to share Croatia simplifiedly in budgetary and entrepreneurial terms. It's budgetary on the state budget, and there's nothing wrong with it, unlike the entrepreneurship that's on its way out. Croatia is another country in the world at the level of tax burden. According to a study of a house with a rate of 153.5% each worker of 100 kuna states takes 53.5 kuna. So the budgetary Croatia is too much burden for entrepreneurship Croatia, and this budget just continues that burden. Nowhere can you see how to boost the economy, release fiscal and parafiscal burdens, increase investment, technology, development, science, research, education. Budgetary Croatia squeezes the economy, and the budget deficit does not go into productive but non-productive consumption. We in the SDP have pointed out countless times is not a deficit problem, the problem is if the deficit does not go into the creation of new jobs and new employment. It is particularly interesting that all these years one item of the famous coalition agreement whose guardian angel was Damir Polancec was ignored, I do not know who he is now and concerning decentralisation. So out of 100 budget kunas 90 kuna goes into the state budget and the remaining 10 shares all others, cities, municipalities and counties. This is inadmissible and does not guarantee the development of Croatia and therefore the SDP advocates that this share comes to 20% of the long-term to 40% as soon as possible. She used to be a popular group. I'm bringing her in. [[Intruder: Bring the end, time.]] It used to be a popular group of 4M for this government could say that 4 is not a government. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63226	Thank you very much. Finish the debate. ... In the name of the government, Mr. Ivan Shuker. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Your Honor, why do you always insult and exceed your time and act inadmissible? On behalf of the Government of the Proposer, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry that this debate today was extremely tolerated. Each of the MPs delivered his opinion, his views, made proposals, ends this way. Mr. Jovanovic, on your council led by the Ministry of Finance with all its sectors, submitted a report. There was Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic here and you were all full of praise for that report. You, too. Not you, but you had the opportunity to submit a report to both the tax and customs offices and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financial Inspectorate to say all these publications about which you are now, you had the opportunity to say it there. Wait a minute. Today you have presented a series of unargumented accusations that you are constantly doing. And now I can ask you one question, I actually can't as a representative of the government, but I'm just surprised by something. You have knowingly violated the laws of the Republic of Croatia because of your daily political needs as the Mayor of Rijeka. And with what right when you do that, you teach a lesson in this high Parliament? I can understand your needs, and also your mayor and mayor have received a clear answer, once we get from Brussels we will see what we will do with the guarantee. You knew that the City of Rijeka couldn't issue a guarantee in accordance with the Law on Budget Implementation, you knew that. You knowingly broke the law, you knew you were breaking the law, and at the same time you kept teaching everyone and calling everyone in this country a thief. So you can do whatever you want when you like and no one is allowed to do anything, but at the same time you can label... Who. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Jovanovic, you had all the heads of the finance ministry in front of you, you could have asked them questions. However, you commended how the report was made, commending how much data you received. You could've been there in front of the press, in front of the cameras, all the people starting with me, and then coming back at me, asking whatever you wanted. But your basic problem is when you're offered arguments, then you don't have the courage to say what you have. You insulted half the government again today, insulted the party. But I repeat, Mr. Jovanovic, to you and to me no matter which political imperatives no one gives the right to break the laws. You're in your speech that was in the media breaking the State Budget Act. You knew the City of Rijeka couldn't issue a guarantee for the 3 May shipyard. You knew. But at the same time, I repeat, you teach everyone here that we are like this, that we are like this. Which means, in another case, they would support a far more serious offense to earn daily political points. So is this solving the problem, is it fostering and building a rule of law? No, no one's right to do that, no matter what his name is, no matter which political option he belonged to, no matter what idea he stood for. It's just that if you did it then don't give everyone a lesson. Why, because you have clearly said I will at the moment when it suits me knowingly violate the laws of the Republic of Croatia, and that is not good. That's not good, and that right just doesn't have anybody's rights. And today, my colleague Linic and I have not once been publicly hooked up and everything, he has delivered his opinion today, which I respect, as well as Greece and many who have debated. They brought out their thesis, I gave my opinion, and I pray nicely, neither were we arguing nor were we offended. ... No, you were insulting. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63228	Don't throw it out of the bench, you had the peace to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63229	You insulted me, I listened politely. But I repeat, Mr. Jovanovic...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63230	Don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63231	You attacked me and the ministry a few times after that, and there you congratulated me on the first thing we came and how we did the report. Just a little please, once again, for the third time I repeat, you have shown how much you advocated the rule of law the other day in Rijeka when you knowingly violated the laws and you can't keep all your lessons here, and you are able to do anything for some of your personal interests. Good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63232	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. It is up to the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the budget is actually a debate on the future of the country and the lives of 4.5 million people. We're discussing how this 4.5 million will live today, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but in two, four, six, ten years. And so the budget is not just pure mathematics, it cannot be because it is the fates of 4.5 million citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is justified, therefore, to ask me whether there are greater political responsibilities than being a creator, to be the creator of a single policy, to be the creator of the future of your country. I don't think so. I also think there is no greater political irresponsibility than the one that stems from the fact that someone has seven years of power, and that time does not use it in the best possible way by serving those who are where it is, therefore for the benefit of those who serve, for the growth and development of the economy, for the necessary reforms and for the creation of all preconditions for new steps and for the development of the country. There's no greater political irresponsibility than to put state finances in a situation where without a new debt, you can't pay your pensions and wages. And I believe politically that it is irresponsible to refuse, see and acknowledge what everyone sees, what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia see and what the institutions of the world see. So far, economic policy, I would say, a bad economic policy so far has enabled consumption without coverage, has enabled too much borrowing, has made it possible to import too much, and at the same time has not provided sufficient support for its own production and exports, and ultimately something that is a very important link to the development strategy. Today, the work is still unfortunately the continuity of such a policy and the budget is actually a very concrete paper proof of this, with the difference that the problems still are slowly recognised and understood, some are recognised, the need for consensus is trying to share responsibility, but unfortunately I don't think that this budget will save all this together in 2011. Unfortunately, after two years of economic depression and after a long time I would say self-destructive privatisation and anti-development policies, there is unfortunately no political force or motivation to call this a real name, to call it economic depression, but it seems to me that somehow it is lost in the illusion that it is an imported recession that will soon go away on its own. And on that thorough illusion, the 2011 budget is based. So I would say quite certain to paraphrasise Prime Minister Kosor that Croatia is already on its way to the third year of depression. This budget and those who have created it as well as those who will soon support it and vote for it, I think it will be responsible for a new depression that will unfortunately reach the Croatian economy in late March. That's what the profession says, that's what a number of economic analysts say until when at least 30,000 more people are working out of work, and the unemployment rate could exceed 19%, so how much is it if I'm not mistaken for ninety-five years right after the Homeland War. So this budget could really cost us dearly. And I think someone who said it was right and I'm going to quote that the objectives of this budget are not economic, but the consequences of this budget will be economical and will not be pleasant. Since the beginning of the crisis, I would say very seriously and extremely responsiblely by proposing to the Croatian Assembly a number of laws, a number of decisions that should have been in the best interest of the country and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And in this we were not driven by any party interests but solely by the desire to improve the economic, social and political situation in the country. And today we are responsible and constructive opposition and we are telling you what the 2011 Budget was supposed to contain for our deep conviction and not contain. He needed my colleagues to talk about it quite exhaustingly throughout the entire day, but let me take a brief look at a few things. So, it should contain one, I would say, a short-term support programme and help me, it seems to me that at this moment it is an extremely important thing for this country, to maintain production, to maintain employment, that is to say, not to lose jobs and to facilitate the situation for companies that have an objective chance of survival and development. Therefore, concrete support measures were to be installed in the 2011 state budget. This, of course, implies a broader view of priorities in industry, agriculture, tourism, small and medium-sized enterprises and in other areas, especially those that may be important for increasing exports. In addition, what we need as a dry country of rain is a long-term development plan for Croatia with a vision, with a concept, with a strategy, with policies. To do the work for six years, so for the period from 2010 to 2016 Well, you know, Mr. Minister, that a number of European documents, and the budget framework, it's been working for six years. So he should have answered the questions about how and in which dynamics can improve living and working conditions, which should be a fundamental goal of development and progress, which are priorities in phases. Unfortunately, the budget has no answer to these questions. What we missed and this opportunity to do is change our relationship to the crisis. Instead of finally starting to manage the crisis, we allow the crisis to continue to govern us, and managing the crisis means managing development. We need a stronger country development role, we need a strategic office for development, networking of institutions and individuals on strategic issues of development, co-ordination of science and profession in matters relevant to development policy, regional development. The independence of the profession to finally hear what the profession knows and has to say. So, for the end of two grades, one political, one economic, very fast. It's political that we really don't have time, that the time for inaction has expired, for delaying the solution and for setting up, for inertness. And economically, we really don't have any money. We must no longer be in debt and spending cannot be financed, as would social peace so far. Croatia must turn over a new page and let whoever can, knows and has the courage to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63234	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Biserka Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63235	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. If we are talking about developed democracies, it is normal for the party that has the election and voter confidence to propose and propose the budget it considers to be the best solution for them. In any case, as a position, you have the opportunity to tell citizens what the situation is, or you have the opportunity to propose some of your proposals that you think will ultimately benefit and serve, serve what you hope for in the elections, either in some other activities. The budget is projected to have an income of 107.4 billion, a expenditure of 122.3 billion, and a deficit is expected to be 14.9 billion. It stresses that the government is also expected to realise through the budget three strategic objectives, which is economic recovery and state development, and then continue to fight corruption and organised crime, as well as finalising negotiations and accession to the European Union. Also, what is stressed is the fact that it does not go into major changes, it does not go into major cuts and no reduction in public spending is expected. They don't touch pensions, social benefits, wages, the public sector. One word keeps him intact. It would all be fine if the indicators that we and foreign companies and foreign consultants are not a little bit more serious than we are in this situation which can be called critical, asked for more drastic cuts, if not drastically, then at least cuts that will feel, which would not ask us for activities and actions, i.e. taking certain actions that will bring the country into a position to get closer or at least try to get closer to the European Union countries, to which we compare. In comparison with other EU countries, we see that they are far more normal and rational in terms of spending on public needs, that those with the issue of regionalisation have gone far away, that they have reduced the administration to one minimum or at least some optimal situation and that they are actually controlling their public spending and not spending what they have not earned. Unfortunately, we are in one situation where we have a large number of addicts on the state budget that didn't show up a year ago two, but have appeared 10 or 20 years ago and it's very difficult in the current situations to tell someone today that they're going to cut their rights, that they're going to have reduced revenues, that they shouldn't expect any more help from the state, and that's where we're all together in a vicious circle. It is absolutely the right of the party in power to propose the budget it considers to be good for this country, it is also the right and obligation of all those who do not think so to say it publicly, but I do not think we have used this time to make key decisions and implement key reforms. In countries that are much more developed, whose fiscal situation is far better than ours, which, with a number of populations stronger than us and with a number of other positive parameters, the Governments are making restructuring decisions, governments are doing reforms, governments are working in the interest of long-term planning of their country, even if it is a large number of people on the streets, even if it is the awakening of certain groups, even if it is going to be at some point in some other expectations or in the far line and towards the loss of power, but it counts that it is necessary to survive and that the country and the country are actually preparing for what awaits us in the future. We actually got a budget here without change, but it still offers us an unbalanced development of the region. We haven't gone far in regionalization because we're afraid to actually abolish both counties and orientations and certain units of local self-government in a certain direction, we still have a large number of units of local self-government that live on state money, which alone can't create anything and unfortunately drag us into breaking into all of us together that we may have been trying to live off our own resources and from our work. In fact, such a non-stimulative climate is not suitable for those who have and do something, nor for those who do not have and do not work. We're just in a situation where we're all in the same... and that, in fact, every year and citizens and units of local self-government and county, that is, the region is waiting for the government to solve their problems, and that is extremely bad in the long term because we are not using our resources, not our knowledge, nor our intelligence, nor our ideas, nor our vision of what we want not now for 5 years, but for a year. [[You don't understand.]] I'm afraid stopping the change slows down both decentralisation and regionalisation, delaying the adoption of new tax reforms, because any new tax reform introduced, it won't fix the drastic state, it'll have to take from someone, but I don't see now in this country who has it that it can charge something for, in order to fill the budget. Unfortunately, the situation is such that the state is a very rich country and a certain asset. If you look at only the coast of our and our areas in the continental part, each city has at least 10 buildings, some buildings, some properties worth millions of kunas, and they're untapped, and it's always known to be the owner of the state. If only we'd used those resources, or if we'd given them to someone, maybe even someone, it'd be better to give something to someone for free so that they create something in that facility than that facility for 10 or 20 years to fail. Here we have, we have not made any major shifts, on the contrary solutions and requirements required for the award of such objects or properties are standing for several years in the drawer, not being solved and we are actually losing those fundamental resources, which is real estate, that's our property, that's our land, that's all that's been created for decades. Unfortunately, all of this when we add up does not give us any great hope, but obviously we will have to be in a situation that we all together as bad as it is to endure this situation, to wait for the solution and the result of this budget, and then whether it will be in a year, six months or something longer, we will go to those cuts that we really have to make as a state, because they are a key factor for us to join the European Union. If we enter the Union unprepared and not implementing these reforms, we will actually be in one situation that our colleagues from the Union will constantly warn us of irregularities and that we will always be one country that has some kind of but also some reason that it is not an equal partner with all other countries, and in any case whether we are in opposition or in a position we do not want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63236	Thank you. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63237	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would say that in the debate on this budget they should be equally concerned and the position, and the opposition for this time in which we bring the budget, what budget we bring and what follows. It should be said that the state is never its own purpose. The state is people and their needs, the needs of entrepreneurs, workers, the need for social security, the need for learning, for science, for retirement pensions, the need for adequate health care, and people who have received citizens' trust actually need to ensure all this. And when the state budget is discussed, it is one of the most important acts in one year, it is a policy that will be implemented specifically throughout 2011. Citizens today have no security at all, no job security at all, and not to say that at the same time everything that awaits them, which is an increase in the price of gas, energy prices, electricity, the price of municipal services will burden them and will simply drop their living conditions. These are government messages from this budget. What will they say about those who were creating that new value by yesterday, and now they're at the Bureau? Is there any message coming from this budget? It's not working. Therefore, we know very well what the problems are, and we understand that we are putting too much burden on both citizens and those who should be creating a new value. And we can't find any policies to take that burden down and in any way encourage those who should create. That's the problem, that's the problem, which is why we can't agree on the budget and we can't find a common language. We can't find him because for three years we've been talking about it, and over three years it's slowly proven that we didn't welcome the crisis, that we weren't ready to solve the crisis and that we didn't want to propose a solution. And it is enough to try and take studies from the World Bank, studies that process Croatia directly. Something from them to learn. But we are not willing to respect any measure or suggestion. Since last July, since Jadranka Kosor became prime minister in Croatia, there have been 55 thousand 888 people out of work, which corresponds to the size of a city like Karlovac. According to the latest data, 304 thousand 479 unemployed were registered at the Croatian Employment Service in late October. According to some estimates of the start of the crisis in Croatia, around 67,000 286 people were jobless, and the extension of recession and lack of work suggest further deterioration of the situation. The government has no strategy or measures to stop the growth of the number of unemployed. This is a topic that no one in the government wants to talk about. How to hire as many people as possible? How do you change the social assistance system to encourage the work of those who can work and to protect people who are physically unable to work? How to Prevent Expansive Abuses? First, as the World Bank study last year shows, the social care system in Croatia does not encourage people to participate in the labour market. If the maximum amount of fees provided by the system is used, it shows that the less educated parents in the five-member family are not paid to work at all. Secondly, Croatia has an extremely high level of gray economy. Among the highest in Europe. Many apply as unemployed, receive compensation, and actually act normally in the gray sector. In order to address the problem of a major increase in costs for the unemployed, the government decided to reduce compensation rights. She decided on changes in which, for example, the compensation after 90 days is no longer 50% of the pay base but 30%. cutting fees without serious reform means nothing. Compensation should be focused on older, poor, single. Let us put an end to the social aid we know, instead of allowing everyone who can work to find a job and earn more than the state can give them. I will also refer a little to some of the things that have been written in the government's 2008-2011 programme and have not been implemented. The government's programme said that a number of older citizens who failed to earn their pensions would receive state support. The deadline was the end of 2008. So it's about people over 65. Unfortunately, none of this is there, and I am afraid that this year too will be questionable and existing pensions because if this trend of unemployment continues, the revenue side of the budget will become less and less full. Indeed, the question is, what has the HDZ government been doing for 7 years or rather a resolution ministry that deals with social care when it has failed to reform the system? Furthermore, in the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008-2011 Chapter 17. – Health care, hospital treatment, reads: "Paliatical care and hospice to be included in the health system network along the reference centre. Date - December 2008. "years." I have been talking about this subject for the third year in a row and today unfortunately, I have to conclude that none of the above has been realised, and since it is evident in this 2011 draft budget with a projection for 2012 and 2013 of the hospice, i.e. the Paliatical Care simply does not exist. Our hope remains that our government too will force EU accession negotiations to enable its citizens to do so. In accordance with the above, I believe that paliative care is one of the basic human rights to health care, and it must be included in the health policy of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. And finally to conclude, the message of this budget is clear, the most endangered will bear the greatest burden. Retired, unemployed, old and powerless, sick. This government doesn't want to think about them. That's the roughest message of this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63238	Thank you. Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will address the problem of funding units of local and regional self-government in the coming period. According to the situation on the ground, and according to the draft of this budget, we have many problems and very, very difficult financing of many, and sometimes the basic needs of local self-government units. This contributes, among other things, to the fact that income tax revenues in the first half of 2010 are lower by 5.3% compared to the same period of 2009. A further drop of 12.3% of income from the base of income tax took place by changing the Income Tax Act from 1.07 this year to 30.10. I do not find this lack of funding for local self-government units in the items of the state budget, and in particular I do not find units of local self-government from my Krapina-Zagorje County as users. Since many mayors and mayors have come to me, I have an obligation to underline projects that they want to implement and expect help from the State budget. I'm going to mention, above all, the weather elemental accident that took place in my county between 17th and 19th. This year, in 16 municipalities and cities of 32, caused larger or smaller rinks and slopes, it is a total of 48 rinks of which 31 rinks on unclassified roads, 15 in residential buildings and 2 in economic facilities. The damage to housing, economic facilities and unclassified roads amounts to a circus of 4 million 700,000 kuna. Another 5 million and 700 thousand kuna are damage on county and local roads. These are for our options of major damage and financial resources are needed, which have neither the county nor the local self-government unit, so we expect in this respect support from our State budget. Further projects for which we expect support are projects to build kindergartens and build primary and secondary schools. All necessary documentation for the construction and construction of kindergartens is completed in the town of Oroslavje, in Krapina spas and in part in Đurmanac. All three destinations record the continuous growth of the number of places needed in kindergartens. Schools in construction and construction are projects of exceptional importance for Oroslavje, Radoboj, and the Sports Hall for Đurmanec and Oroslavje. Business zones are projects without which there will be no further economic development in the Holy Cross plot, Radoboja, Oroslavje, Gornji and Donjo Stubica. I spoke about transport infrastructure on several occasions in this spare home so I will only remind myself of the obligation to reconstruct the old Zagorje highway and especially important roads Oroslavje-Marija Bistrica-Popovac, and roads towards Kumrovec as well as the reconstruction of the Zaprešić-Zabok railway line. I hope these projects will find understanding in the resolution ministries and help to realise them. Finally, I would ask a question why the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service cannot exercise the right to train on helicopters without which it is neither safe nor effective to carry out high-risk tasks of saving human lives. In fact, Mr. Minister of Training of members of Croatia's mountaineering services through 50 hours of helicopter attacks stands at about 400,000 kuna. I don't find that item in the budget, it might stand, so tell me where it is that we can answer the members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service if they will have the opportunity to train their members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63240	Thank you. Mr. Agent Daniel SRb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63241	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In my presentation at the end of this long-term debate, I would like to refer to several messages that follow from this proposal of the State Budget for next year. In fact, we are all aware that the deficit proposed through this state budget is extremely large, that there is no money for some needs, everyone would like to provide more investment investment and more support for different categories of population for which there is no money. But what is important is that in such a situation, there can be greater revenues from the State budget that should meet those expectations of Croatian citizens that must be met necessarily in order for society to record some progress. The fact is, in fact, our country is extremely dependent on the state budget and that precisely because of this, the movement of the gross social product depends largely on how much money there will be for new investment from the state budget. And from year to year, unfortunately, those funds are getting less and less. For example, for secondary education, funds for the state budget dropped from 36 million kuna in 2009, 30 in this year, 21 in the following year, for primary education in this 59, to 44 million kuna in the following year. So, this money simply doesn't have and it's actually about the need for increased investment to ensure those funds that must mean getting out of the crisis, changing trends in growth in economic activity. I am afraid that without a major shift, first of all in the system of state infrastructure management, state-owned companies, to the level of hospital directors and schools, it will not be possible to achieve economic growth in the next year. The government has a particular catalog of investments expected to turn the Croatian economy, but we must be aware that these are projects that require an extremely long time to prepare and that the effects they will achieve will take some and many years to even enter the stage of realization. Of course, they are all welcome projects that need to be supported. The desire is for those to be realised as soon as possible to be less braked within the state administration, as the state administration should also be aware that the future of society, the future of the country depends on how quickly these projects will enter the stage of realisation. What's good in this one sea of bad news is the fact that here are the prizes for athletes increasing in the next year from a million to three million kunas, bad messages are if our athletes are given a less material prize for the first place than athletes from Serbia who haven't even played in the finals with their country and which is still significantly poorer than Croatia. It's bad messages and it can't happen. I'm not doing any other comparisons I've pointed out before. Also, the question of what kind of future Croatia's shipbuilding expects when in the next year, unlike previous ones, no funding for shipbuilding subsidies is foreseen this year. Of course it's a serious state problem, but it can't be a message through a state budget sale or liquidation. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the Croatian Government for the future of these people, not that we are actually reading from this budget in the following year new protests of shipbuilding employees and farmers dissatisfied with the funds that will be provided for incentives and support in agriculture. But what concerns most are the political messages arising from certain items in the state budget. First of all, a million-and-a-half kuna for the common council of municipalities is foreseen, so one institution that does not exist in legal form at the moment, and it is obvious that the government plans to set up exactly that institution, which is one of the para-states in which I have already spoken several times and which is totally unacceptable for Croatia. It is an institution that would not be accepted by Croatia or in the 1990s, 1991. when Croatia was in the most difficult situation. In addition, support policy for municipalities continues on the basis of the national composition of the population, which is equally politically and civilised today totally unacceptable. I really don't mind that in any of the municipalities in Croatia if there is a need for a water line to be built, regardless of the people on the national composition of the population living there. So if someone in Croatia needs a new water line, then they should get a water line because they are a Croatian citizen, not because they are these or those nationalities. And unfortunately, it is actually happening that it is precisely nationality that becomes an argument in Croatia to obtain funds from the state budget, which is again visible in the list of municipalities that receive aid from the state budget. That is why I have also proposed amendments to which I wish to balance this support to an identical level for all, and the funds that will save nearly 15 million kunas will be rerouted to help transport high school students on materially difficult occasions which are thus not able to attend high school classes. And if there is a real need to support certain municipalities in Croatia in terms of the development of infrastructure municipal projects, then there should be a specific element of the development of infrastructure projects and, according to certain criteria, allocate these funds or finance these projects regardless of the national composition of the population. So, we are looking for equality, not national segregation policy, which unfortunately became a rule in Croatia because lately we have the opportunity to see HRTV that, on the basis of nationality, employees are fired, that candidates for directors of certain schools in Croatia cannot be appointed to do so because of national belongings and similar extremely bad messages which should be recorded not in Croatia, not in the European country and which are certainly not European democratic fluids but on the contrary. I therefore ask the Croatian Government to recognise the limit between the implementation of the national minority protection policy to the rights of national minorities and national segregation policy. So this is a border that is extremely important for civilization, but it is a political issue that, regardless of the pressure of certain coalition partners, must be clearly defined. In Croatia, the national segregation policy is extremely poor. Personally, I find it bad for members of the national minorities. I'd like them to recognize that, too. Therefore, precisely because of this national segregation policy which is read through this draft budget on whether the amendment will be accepted depends on the vote on this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63242	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I listened very carefully to most of the predecessors and I must say that I am a little bitter with during the debate. There have been attempts to propose quality solutions. Unfortunately, such a debate was very little, we mostly continued with the usual black white debate. Today, I have heard 50 times that the current situation in Croatia is a global crisis. I've heard 15 times today that the current crises can be linked to some of the coalition government's decisions from the beginning of the decade. I've heard several times today that the war is to blame for some of the economic troubles we have in the Republic of Croatia today. But it is interesting that the majority of the Parliament at no time could accept in any particular case the idea that at least part of the reason for the crisis lies in some bad move by the Croatian government, there was no such thing. It's all someone else's fault, and it's better than what we have on the table today that we couldn't achieve. So this is our maximum. My colleagues and colleagues, do we really believe that we could not be in a more favourable economic position today than we are? Please, let's be serious. Could we be in a more favourable position? Is the war, is it Racan, whether the recession, whether they are responsible for the government's business and positioning people such as the protege of Kirinić, Sladenja, Jurak, Dimic, Galić, Marinac, Sixac, Polancec,... etc. etc. To important places? Is the coalition government at the beginning of the decade to blame today for corruption becoming a way of life in the Republic of Croatia? In a debate on the fight against corruption and the ruling majority of the country's population has been talking about about 10 to 12 billion kunas as it disappears annually because of corruption in the Republic of Croatia. It's a place where you should try to save, it's money that needs to be directed towards development, according to employment, according to exports, according to the standard of these citizens. Is the war and the global recession to blame that the government has made it possible for the public sector to increase the number of employees over the past six years so that we now spend an annual amount of 8 billion kuna on their salaries, so I repeat 8 billion kuna every year more than in 2003. I, gentlemen, wouldn't mind much if this army of new employees had achieved what we expected, had created conditions for faster, better-quality economic growth, that they had solved the problems of technological transfer in education, in science, etc. However, this newly employed army was not effective in anything, but no one was to blame. However, 8 billion prime ministers each year need to count additional funds for their salaries. Whether Racan's government and the recession in the world are responsible for billions of state incentives in the way they are shared, we saw a few months ago the surveillance requested by the European Union, 9.5% of these incentives being incorrectly and unintendedly used. It's about millions and millions and millions. My colleagues and colleagues, we have discussed recently and that we should appoint a landowner in the coastal tourist area and thus enable the economic use of these areas, this exceptional wealth of ours. Unfortunately, the government failed, and I remember colleagues from the ruling coalition were then calculated that we are losing about a billion euros a year, which means 7 billion kuna a year and that is a potentially large source of funds. But instead, we decided, and here in the Parliament, we passed laws that we had missed in the budget, directed billions, but we were saving on millions. Look, we abolished the ride of students, we stopped subsidizing student homes, we stopped paying textbooks, we introduced to the disabled tolls, we introduced a crisis tax, this summer we stopped funding several hundred scientific projects, we stopped co-financed international scientific research etc., etc. So, colleagues and colleagues, could we do better? Are these really priorities that make it easier for the Deputy Prime Minister to make a clear budget as it would really benefit all citizens of this country. What I disagree with, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, when you claim that this budget has allowed regular payouts and pensions, I find it extremely untasty because all Croatian citizens know that the only regular appearance in the Republic of Croatia today is a new borrowing. But also every Croatian citizen and without us, a disasterer knows he can't and won't last long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63244	Thank you. Final review, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we are, at the end of one of the longest debates on the state budget in ten years, but also one of the most likely. And on behalf of the Government, I thank all the participants in the debate and surely that some of the things that were here today I will give my services to analyse and that once some of the topics based on the arguments we download for the talks for some of the future times, simply to calculate how many of these proposals are, how current in this time and in fact, drink coffee and talk about them. Because I think if we're going to discuss things like this in the future then maybe we'll introduce some new rules into the political life of the Republic of Croatia because when we pay for one, the other we're ultimately under one common policy holder and we're all in that mud. I think we need to show people that we know what we're talking about, that we have ideas, that we can oppose these ideas, so in the end, if they're undefined, if they're not analytically enough or reanalyzed maybe the political parties that are opposition and they don't have that kind of data, so let them do professional services in the government and we can discuss it. Why not? There may be some idea that will be in the middle, which will be good for Croatia, and I think it is in everyone's interest. Thank you again for your constructive discussion, and I'm glad we ended this day like this. A lot of people might have expected us to take a shower today. I think that today we have shown that we have consciousness and that we can talk that everyone is making their arguments without raising their tones and I think that, no matter how we evaluate it, it is a great gain for everyone, no matter what he thinks and how he thinks about this budget. Normally, the ruling coalition has an opinion, that the opposition has its own. I am pleased that today, at the beginning of the debate, three, four MPs, first of all, came out of the SDP with concrete proposals and we can discuss it, however. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63246	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The amendments can be submitted by 12 o'clock tomorrow. The budget will be voted on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63247	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. I warmly welcome you all and welcome the Prime Minister, Vice President and Minister and all of you, of course. Today we're going to vote on the debated agenda points, and when we're done, then we're going on a regular agenda. So we start with a proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. Please quorum, let's get on with it. 106 turned on. So we can go to the vote. Therefore, the first is the proposal of the State Budget, as I mentioned, of the draft financial plans for the non-profit users for 2011 with projections for 2012 and 2013 (a) of Croatian Waters (a) of the Croatian Roads (a) of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks (a) of the Croatian Fund for Privatisation (a) of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, Mrs. and gentlemen of the Representatives, to vote on the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. The debate is closed. Please, we have a quorum. We can keep going. First, we will declare the amendments submitted. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Schuker. Amendments have been made by MP Zoran Vinkovic. Amendment 1. – The Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity of positions etc., permanent rights of persons with disabilities, family disability, later and secondly, in the column... is replaced by... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] increasing the compensation for the blind in accordance with the budget explanation reduces... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Department of Defense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please be my guest, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63248	The government does not accept the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Extending the possibility of involving blind persons in whom this physical damage is caused by an amendment to the conditions laid down in these laws has no legal basis and therefore this amendment cannot be accepted as proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63249	Thank you. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63250	It is a matter, Mr. President and Mr. Minister, that this is a shamefully low fee, a monthly fee, for the blind in Croatia, and it requires an increase and coordination of the same to the level that exists in other European countries, especially in the countries in our neighbourhood. For example, BiH has 175 euros, Serbia too, and with us the monthly fee for the blind is not enough for monthly food for the guide dog either. That's why I'm asking for a vote and remember when voting on all the blind people who need that fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63251	Thank you. We will vote on the amendments by raising our hands, and when the laws and decisions come, then we will join the voting system. So, who is for this amendment No. 1. Mr. Zoran Vinkovic, whom the government does not accept, please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment relating to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy, and here, in order not to read the amendment, we have all the amendments ahead of us to go faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63252	The government does not accept because the proposed funds for these activities are sufficient to allow these activities to take place normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63253	Mr. Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63254	A shameful decision by the Government which failed to rationalise the business of the Croatian Horsefarm Centre was called into question... A little patience, gentlemen, you'll vote against. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It was brought into the work of both ergels, especially ergel Djakovo, with that closed... It is not a whole ergel and therefore it is necessary to provide an additional 21 million 122 kuna and 600 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63255	Thank you. Who is to this amendment that the government does not accept, please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The third amendment, Ministry of Finance item A539061, is an incentive for education, culture, science and health in the Federation of BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63256	The government does not accept for the reason that the funds for this purpose are planned under the 2011-2013 Guidelines, however, the amendment promoter has obviously dropped out of sight or has no information that the Government has taken over a number of loans that are actually used to build certain educational, cultural institutions, among other things there is the University of Mostar, therefore, these funds, when added, are far greater than what you see in the budget. In this position you see.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63257	Thank you, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63258	Regardless of what the minister said, this amount relating to the promotion for education, culture, science and health in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and given that the Croatian people have gone through the worst with the Dayton Agreement, I believe that this amount foreseen by the budget is too small for the needs of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore I especially expect this amendment to be supported by representatives from the so-called so-called ". Diaspora. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63259	Thank you. Who's in favor of this amendment, please raise your hand. Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4 also concerns the Ministry of Finance, incentives for education, culture, science and health at the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63260	The government does not accept, because the funds for the Croatian minority programme in the countries listed in the amendment by MP Vinkovic are planned for the foreign ministry's budget to assist national minorities abroad in the amount of millions and 200 thousand kuna for 2011. On the activities and scholarships of students and students of members of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia amounting to 2 million and 380 thousand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63261	Thank you, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63262	Since Croatians do not live only in Bosnia and Herzegovina but have them around the world, and there are as many as in Croatia, if not more, I believe that the amount of 20 million kuna is necessary in order to further encourage the Croatian state to education, culture, sport and science and health care of Croats wherever they are. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63263	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5. Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63264	The government does not accept, because in accordance with Article 143 paragraph 1(6). The law on education and education in secondary school, the means of building, construction, reconstruction of the school space, their equipment are ensured from the budget of units of local, regional or regional self-government, also paragraph 4 of that Article, the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes appropriate decisions each year to ensure a minimum financial standard, thus providing for Osijek-Baranja County 18 million and 514 kuna in the current 2010 period. So, building this school should be planned from those funds and so you have the resources at your disposition, you just need to agree with yours in the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63265	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63266	Well esteemed Mr. Ministers with 18 million kuna what the needs of Osijek-Baranja County are compared to the necessary construction of new schools is an extremely small amount. Since the budget includes the construction of a crafts-technical school and the Split Hall, I believe that in any case, the secondary vocational school that works according to European standards deserves to be in the 25 million kuna budget and therefore ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63267	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. The next amendment will now be declared by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Milinovic. Well it is the 6th Amendment of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, position K1077 Clinical Hospital Center of Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63268	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the amendment is not accepted, in the course of the development of the network and the list... in the Republic of Croatia, so if the need for the existence of a maternity site in Đakova is shown, the funds from the budget are secured in the item, i.e. within... The Department of Health and Social Services.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63269	Thank you, Mr. Vinkovic. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63270	Well, Mr. Minister should be clear by now that this need is justified, the city of Djakovo is a city with 30,000 inhabitants, and is gravitated by some 60,000 inhabitants who are closest to the clinical hospital Osijek, and God has not let what happened in Makarska happen. I am aware that the project to equip the hospital, the birthplace in Djakov, precisely because this would not remain an empty promise, was said by the minister when he said that the birthplace in Djakov, Makarska and Sinj would be opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63271	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. The amendments will now be made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Pankretic, please. Amendment 7. Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, position K570341 regional development projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63272	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that, under this paragraph of the budget, annual resolution development projects are primarily co-financed to build basic and municipal and social infrastructure facilities, as a rule, it is about smaller projects that local self-government units recognise as priority. In certain areas, there is an extremely low level of association of residents with the basic infrastructure, and insufficient social infrastructure primarily in kindergartens and school halls, which has a significant impact on the quality of life. Local self-government units are involved in co-financing with at least 50% of the project value. In view of the overall value of the investment of the proposed amendment, its implementation would not be possible through this item of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63273	Thank you. Mr. Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63274	It is one of the larger Đakova investments that deserves to be in the State budget in any case, it is a square beneath Strossmayer's cathedral, in a square named after Bishop Josip Jurj Strossmayer, next year I don't know if the Government knows, 150 years of the establishment of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, founded just by Bishop STrossmayer. This is probably the rejection of this amendment as the best sign that the government's relationship to the great bishop STRrossmayer. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63275	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 8. Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy positions of K5820021 of the same representative of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63276	The government does not accept this amendment, the Đakovo project is planned to nominate the use of EU funds in 2012, 2013. The project proposal, the Đakovo project envisions activities for the construction of wastewater treatment facilities in the city of Đakov and the construction of sewers and city network, which includes the above-mentioned activities of recovery of the collector's network. The estimated investment value of construction under the Djakovo project is 120 million kuna. The planned start of implementation is 2013. So far, through the water management plan, we have developed a part of the technical documentation, and through the ISPA program contract a draft project proposal for the Đakovo project with study documentation has been developed. So when this is all going to be over, this is a project that's under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63277	Thank you. Mr. Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63278	The project of purifiers and drains in the city of Djakova began some 7 years ago. I hope that this is now the basis of 2012 and 2013 that someone like Drnis and Knin will not fly in again, but this is about helping the city so that it can pay for this big infrastructure project and this is about paying a flat fee and a communal contribution. Since the state is still an EU project, the state does not release such water contribution projects. That is why this amount is necessary for the project to begin at all, and since the whole of Slavonia is impoverished by these government tax decisions, I therefore demand a vote because without this money this project will not be able to begin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63279	Thank you. Who's for this amendment please raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 9 to the same ministry, construction of the Kuševac-Ivanovci sewer network?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63280	The government does not accept this amendment. As part of the project, the integrated development of the local community of the EIP project (2), through which the value of the applied project will also be financed, is 4 million 880 thousand, and in the joint financing of the ministry and the city that participates with 50%.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63281	Thank you. Mr. Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63282	So, it's one part of this entire system of construction of the Kuševac-Ivanovci sewer network. The contract was signed, there is no Minister Cobankovic here in 2008. However, the amount for which the city participated in the EIP (2) project has been completed and I expect the Ministry of Regional Development, forestry, to transfer the commitment of 2 million kuna. Otherwise, ministers and Croatian Waters participate in this project, and the value of the project is about 35 million. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63283	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 10 to the same ministry and the construction of morgues in the suburban settlement of the city of Djakova?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63284	The government does not accept this amendment. From this site, reconstruction of buildings of public purposes is financed primarily by the construction and restoration of sacral objects, but also by the restoration of other public purpose objects. Since the value of the proposed amendment in relation to the level of the state budget funds in this position would not be possible for its realisation, smaller social infrastructure projects could be co-financed through the position of regional development projects that could include the construction of a morgue.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63285	Thank you. Mr. Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63286	The city of Djakovo has already begun to increase standards. Not in the 5.5 months but a little earlier, and now it's still doing it and it's still asking for the state's help, since it's about objects of general importance. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63287	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 11 of the same ministry of construction of the Society's House in the wider field, Budrovci, Djurdjanci and Kushevec?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63288	The government does not accept this amendment. The reconstruction and construction of social infrastructure facilities is financed through the annual regional development programme with the position of regional development projects in accordance with the means available and based on the requirements of the local self-government unit. Therefore, the city of Đakovo may nominate the subject matter for co-financing in 2011 through the specified position.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63289	Mr. Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63290	Last year, however, no such competition was opened since there was no funding in the state budget. But this is about increasing the general standard of living in the area of the city of Djakova and I would say wider Slavonia. There are several homes for which the city, along with the county, has allocated as much funds, and help from the state budget is needed here. These objects are common purposes. So it's about classic social homes with halls and all the facilities necessary for suburban settlements. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63291	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Djuro Popioč. Here you go. Amendment 12. Construction and equipment of the Đakovština industrial zone?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63292	The amendment is not accepted for reasons that already this year a sufficient number of funds are, of course, paid as is intended for the construction and reconstruction and construction of infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones. And also in the next year will be the competition, and for this reason when the time comes and when the competition is under way, we will see by the standard procedures that amount will be available.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63293	Thank you. Mr. Agent Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63294	There are also lots of checkouts and turns from highways that pass two cars a month and cost a lot more than it would cost to build an industrial zone in Slavonia, especially in the heart of Slavonia in Djakov. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63295	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And amendment 13 to the position of the same ministry, construction and equipment of the wider field industrial zone?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63296	The funds will also be provided for next year in the prescribed procedures and competitions that will be announced very quickly and for the adoption of the overall strategy for next year and I think that when the time comes for this will be the opportunity to apply to the prescribed competitions and everything will be in the context of the rules and procedures provided for. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63297	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63298	Perhaps if I were Djurdja Adlesic, perhaps an amendment and a certain vote would be adopted here by individual representatives. Wait a minute, Chehok calm down. Then maybe 450 million would have been adopted. Since this government has not accepted any.../The speaker disfellowshipped./... may these amendments be remembered and simply send a message to the Djakovs for whom to vote. Since you do not accept amendments, I do not accept this budget which is in the final line, given these things that are happening.../The speaker has been disfellowshipped./... votes, conflict of interest and abuse of power, I am leaving the session of the Parliament and I am against this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63299	Shall we vote on this amendment? ... So this amendment has been withdrawn. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, amendments to the Serbian MPs have not been submitted in accordance with Article 38. The budget law, and we won't be able to make a statement about it. Namely, a brief explanation. Representative Daniel Srb has submitted 18 amendments. Each of these amendments proposes a reduction of some items, but does not say where the money goes. However, the amendment 18 could interpret them as going towards the transport of pupils, but the total amount of funds that would be reduced is not identical with the amount of these total cumulative amendments with this amount proposed by Mr. Representative Serbs. Therefore, for these reasons, we cannot either discuss these amendments or decide because they do not comply with Article 38. The law. Thank you very much. Who answered? Did you get it? Here you go, Mr. Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63300	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. I must say, I expected that a certain formal reason would be found so that these amendments would not be discussed because they represent a certain political essence of how the state budget is spent, and it is absolutely unacceptable for me for a modern society because it leads to national segregation rather than national equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63301	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you all have amendments, you can all read it. Are you on behalf of the club, sir... Mr. Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63302	Dear President of the Parliament,... the vote on the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The SDP club is looking for a 10-minute break to take its final stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63303	Mr. Zlatko Koračević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63304	Also on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, Croatia's pensioners' parties are looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63305	It's about the budget, isn't it? ... There's something you need to say why you're looking for, even if it's anything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Representative Buric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63306	Also, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, I'm looking for a break... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63307	Thank you very much. At least the time you asked for... Mr. Andrija Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63308	Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we're also looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63309	Thank you. I'm setting a 10-minute break as much as it's asked for, and that's the least time we can determine. So we continue at 10.41 hours. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative and Vice-President of the Club Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63311	Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, Vice President, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club estimates that the characteristics of Croatia's economy are a reduction in the number of employees. We record about a million 442000 employees and at the same time the number of unemployed increases. Last month, 304,000 workers passed. Salary cuts, especially in the real sector, are also a characteristic of the economy. The trades are closed, companies stop their business, and one reason is the high indifference of more than 33 billion kunas. Unfortunately, this indifference affects both the fall in income and profits in the real sector, and unfortunately the revenues of the state budget are also falling, and the budget of the units of local and regional self-government. A particular problem in Croatia is the failure to pay salaries, as well as the failure to pay pension and health contributions. Regardless of this economic situation today, we are making a budget based on 107 billion kunas of income and 122 billion kunas of expenditure, or slightly less than 15 million kunas of deficits. The deficit of over 4.3% of gross social product is not used for interventions in consolidation, the recovery of such a situation in the economy is not used for interventions in the fight for larger exports, nor is it used to manage the financial situation. So 2011 is also a huge risk to every entrepreneur and economy as a whole. The new deficit financing tasks next year will only increase public debt, but also external debt, which is already greater than the gross social product at this time. The indifference of the economy, the unbalanced budget and the excessive debt also means increasing uncertainty for the citizens of Croatia. The new budget means uncertainty in public sector wages payments as well as pension payments for 2011. All warnings by the professional public, businessmen, ignoring the opposition's proposal suggest that the majority in the Assembly are not willing to change neither economic nor fiscal policy for 2011. And that is why the members of the SDP club will leave the ruling coalition to vote on their own, and take responsibility for the adverse decision on the 2011 budget that put our country's national interests at risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63312	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63313	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Prime Minister, members of the government. We at the Croatian People's Party club, the Croatian party of pensioners were ready to support all responsible and quality government moves, moves that would lead to reduced public spending, fostering new values, increasing employment and returning to optimism. And we have always said that so far, we have always proposed very concrete projects, very concrete programmes, and we are glad that many of these proposals have become your proposal. However, the budget that will be voted on today confirms the inability to predict development and serious problems. This budget does not keep the standard of citizens, but keeps the authorities safe for several months. It does not preserve the standard of citizens, but by delaying the necessary reforms increases their final price. He's not defending pensions, he's leading to a failure of the pension system. He's not protecting the interests of children, he's pushing them into debt slavery. No protection of jobs, however, opens a new uncertainty, for many further prolonging agony and ultimately does not necessarily return the necessary optimism in the ability to lead this country, in the ability and willingness to address the existing situation. The budget that ends at the end of the term of office, the four-year term ends with a billion kuna less income, with a cumulatively close to 40 billion total budget expenditure is definitely a budget that should really be supported by strength and courage and is our message from the Croatian People's Party club, the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party that supporting such a budget represents violence against citizens, and such violence certainly requires a very serious therapy, and one of them is next year's elections, regularly. We at the Croatian People's Party Club also do not want to witness violence against citizens by adopting and adopting such a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63314	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First is Mr. Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63315	So what MP Koracevic said is all incorrect, but here I'll just say that what he said about this budget not protecting the interests of workers, citizens, pensioners is incorrect. He is now guaranteeing pension payments, salary payments as is the difficult situation, when we had a severe financial crisis in the country were paid in time for both salaries and pensions and all other social benefits. But the fact is that it is clear to the opposition and it cannot therefore vote against the budget but rather go away because they understand that this budget is so good that they have no reason to vote against but rather go out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63316	Thank you. There's still a correction. Mr. Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63317	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting this quote especially when it's said, when a colleague said this is violence against the citizens. Well, I think this was violence from a fellow gentleman over all of us here and against all of our citizens. Because this budget has also provided health care and jobs and pensions and the functioning of the state and better tomorrow of the state. Therefore, the intelligence, demagogy and hypocrisy we have heard here is indeed violence against the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63318	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Vice President Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63319	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister. He said he needed courage and courage to make such a budget and vote for it. It takes brains, brains the most. Then they'll vote for him. If we had any brains, we'd vote for him. And since he mentioned it then that we also remember the Varazdin County, the budget of the Varazdin County and the town of Zlatar, where the authorities of the HNS show what the masters are, what they planned for and what was left for them in the end. Debts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63320	Thank you. We have another correction, Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63321	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Koračević said something that really shook me. This budget does not protect the interests of children but puts it into debt slavery. I think they're incorrect and too heavy words. Mr. Koračević is not here, but I will say for the public. This budget has not just violated the interest of children in any of its items. He also left maternity benefits and child benefits and all social benefits. And everything that could have been in education for the children's interests. Obviously, in front of his infirmities, counterpart Koracevic follows his colleagues on their way out of the assembly as well as on rebalancing because when the serious topics are in order in this assembly it is easier to get out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63322	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB club and Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63323	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Prime Minister, members of the government, fellow MPs, fellow MPs. The HDSSB representative club does not accept this draft budget and we have already said that in the debate on this budget. However, given today's course of this session, we need to recapitulate once again the basic reasons for not accepting this draft budget for 2011. We do not accept the draft budget for 2011 because there is a continued maternal relationship with Slavonia and Baranja by the government of the Republic of Croatia because in this budget for the region in Croatia, which represents 20% of the population and 20% of the territory goes and goes only 5% of the resources. We don't accept a budget that saves on citizens' health because it reduces the position in the distribution of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, so no matter how you try to explain it, 700 million kuna is less than 700 million kuna. And that's for the department of health care and welfare division. We do not accept a budget that saves on the rights of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War because it reduces their budget by 115 million kuna, and that at the same time, I will only set one example this time, the funding of the Associations of Homeland War defenders in the following year will be reduced by one million and 300 thousand kuna. At the same time, for the first time, the financing of a joint council of municipalities or a common larger municipality of Vukovar will be introduced which does not even have the right to do so because it is not a legal person with a million-and-a-half kuna. And that's the money you took directly to the Croatian defenders' associations. We do not accept the budget in which it is being saved and at the position of the economy because you have a reduction of 226 million kuna of the position envisaged to strengthen the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. We don't even accept the fact that we have a deficit of 15 billion kuna just as much as in all these affairs is likely to rob the money of our own people in the term of former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, and this government is the continuity of former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. And I'll repeat in the end, it won't be enough after everything that's happened you're closing down everyone responsible, but the responsibility will have to be borne by the parliamentary representatives of the ruling majority sitting here in the Parliament, who have allowed such an unprecedented robbery of their own people... That's right, that's right. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And you will answer before the people when the time comes, and the time will come very soon. We've proposed three measures and I'll repeat them. You should all be deprived of your privileged pensions, all of you should be deprived of such illegally acquired assets, and you should all be charged to raise your loan and pay off until you return 15 billion kunas. .../Speakers speaking out loud do not understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63324	Mr. Representative. You're not an investigator, you're not a prosecutor, you're not a judge. You're neither, nor the other, and don't turn the assembly into a courtroom. You're not invited, and we're not invited to anything like that. In particular, we are not invited to call and label and judge people. Please, because you have in such a way hurt many here offended, accused and condemned, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63325	I thank you and stay with my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63326	We now have corrections to incorrect allegations, so the first vice president is Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63327	Inaccurate claims by MP Buric that this budget shows the motherhood of the central state, the government towards Slavonia and Baranja. Mr. Buric, you have no mandate or legitimacy to speak on behalf of Slavonia and Baranja. Slavonia and Baranja are five counties, of those five counties bar in the 4th election unit HDZ has received the largest number of MPs, you have received 2 MPs, one in the fifth, in all other Slavonski counties HDZ has prevailed and won your party, and therefore you cannot speak on behalf of Slavonia and Baranja and if you had little knowledge of the budget then you would have seen that in all positions Slavonia and Baranja and that in all 5 counties it is quite represented according to all the basics and all the positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63328	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63329	Yes, the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Article 209 of the Honorable Vice President Seks you spoke of things I didn't mention, but when you want to talk about it, I represent here HDSSB is a party representing citizens of Slavonia and Baranja and not just my county, and I know well how to sum up, I told you the position only on capital and current aids and investments of 7 billion 142 million kuna, for all 5 Slavonian counties, instead of 20% and that's a billion 420 going 356 million kuna. My math is correct. It would be better for both Slavonia and Baranja and Croatia if in the previous elections the reverse ratio of HDZ and HDSB representatives was also the same. Be sure that after these elections the situation in Slavonia and Baranja...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63330	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, please let's not continue to abuse this institute just so it can be pollemized. We have a correction to further incorrect allegations. Did you give up? There's a Mr. Salapic. You pulled, okay, thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63331	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is a sad scene where a serious conclusion is made with the serious majority, while the unserious minority has left this temple of democracy. And not only have they left, we're used to it, because they leave the Assembly whenever key decisions are made, let's remember from 91st and beyond, but they won't even hear the answer to what they said on behalf of the Clubs. It's incorrect, it's unpolitical, and it's rude. Well now, since Mr. Linic obviously listens to what I'm saying somewhere along the screen, I still have to answer him that what he said is a lie. He said we increased the number of unemployed. The number of unemployed has, unfortunately, reached the number of 300 thousand, which is sad, which we will, of course, try to correct. During his time as vice president for the economy, the number of unemployed was 317 thousand. No one was yelling, no one was cowardly. They say we have cut wages, Croatia is one of the few countries that has raised the average salary by 1% in the past 2 years, one of the few countries. He went back to the wrong address. It says the drop in profits, that the drop in profits is, tax on profits, throughout Europe, and in Croatia. It says that we have reduced gross domestic product, we have reduced one year later than the European Union. Let us remember in 2008 when the European Union was zero with GDP growth and we were still at plus 2, why then the cowards didn't raise their heads. They say we have reduced contributions, just like the whole of Europe, but the contribution to growth as well as the gross social product in the last quarter of this year is on the rise. He's saying we've increased the budget deficit. We did, but we didn't reach his number while he was deputy prime minister and we'll never reach it because we're still far from the European average of 6.6% of the government budget deficit. He's saying we've increased public debt. Croatia has a public debt of 48% of gross domestic product, Europe is somewhere between 90% and 100%. So Mr. Linic would have to take some comparative data and read it if he didn't understand them let those who understood it. What should be answered by a fellow Buric. We didn't save on defense attorneys, we're not saving on defense attorneys because we're the only party representing the rights of counsel. The items that have been reduced have been reduced because they have ceased legal entry into that category for certain groups and therefore the financial item has been corrected but none of the defenders will receive a reduction of any item obtained from the budget. And in the end, the opposition had the right to make amendments, this part that broke out of the assembly. They didn't give amendments, they didn't give an alternative draft budget, because they don't know. Because if they knew, they'd go out with it, so we'd have a democratic debate about that budget, this is how the party that retreated because of the lack of ideas, because of the lack of a solution to the economic crisis. And in the end, I can't say it's anything but that this House of Democracy is one temple of democracy. Who's leaving the temple? He who has great sins and is aware of it, so let us forgive them because they do not know what they are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63332	Thank you. We have two corrections, first Mr. Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63333	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. A esteemed colleague, Hebrang, said in his statement that HDZ is the only party that protects the defence interests. That's absolutely not true and I can't accept it from the HSP's point of view. Secondly, it is true that through this budget a million-and-a-half kuna is foreseen for the joint councils of Vukovar, which is not a legal person at the moment, and it is obvious that the government is planning to set up such an institution through the budget, expects the establishment of a common council of municipalities and supports it with a million-and-a-half kuna, which is the reason why Croatia will experience extremely difficult consequences and I warn them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63334	Correction Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63335	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative of Dr Hebrang when he spoke about the fact that the 2011 budget did not provide for a reduction in the resources for Croatian defenders. Even though two and two are still four and a position of 26.5 million kuna less for the care of Croatian defenders, 21 million kuna less for the care of persons with disabilities, 3 million kuna less for the employment of Croatian defenders, the abolished item for the funeral costs of the dead Croatian defenders and a million and 300 thousand kuna for the financing of associations from the Homeland War are figures that stand in the draft budget for 2011 which is today the subject of acceptance or non-acceptation. Therefore, what is sad is the fact that HDZ representatives have been treating Croatian defenders over the past few years... /The speaker has been excluded./... unfortunately, the Croatian defender was only the one. ... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63336	Thank you very much. Time's up twice. I'm asking you to install the possibility here that I... Please, this second one was all an explanation that had nothing to do with the correction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to vote on the State Budget Proposal. Please engage to see the quorum again. Here, let's get involved. Neda Klaric didn't get involved, Lovrin did, too. Is it okay now? It's good. So we have 83 quorum and I'm warning you on the basis of Article 81. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a state budget requires most of all representatives, so at least 77. I am voting on the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. Please, let's get involved and vote. Make sure you get what you wanted. The result? I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour, no abstentions and 6 against were adopted and adopted by the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. ... Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent to financial plans and extra-financial users for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. First, I am voting in favour of giving consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. Let's please get involved and vote on the decision. The result? The decision was made by a majority of votes, 82 votes in favour, no abstentions, and 6 against. We move to the financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. I would like to ask the Proposer to declare Mr. Zoran Vinkovic's amendment. Mr. Minister Bozidar Kalmeta, amendment to the 1st reconstruction of the Đakova bypass. So this amendment 1 applies to the position of the Croatian Roads?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63337	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. This amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63338	Since there are no proposals, we will vote. Who is the First Amendment of Representative Zoran Vinkovic? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2nd Amendment of the same representative to the positions of the Croatian Road, the reconstruction of Preradović and Pavić Street in Đakov?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63339	And this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63340	Who's in favour of this amendment? There are no MPs. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Amendment of the same representative of the position of the Croatian road, the reconstruction of Stjepan Radic Street?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63341	It's also not acceptable. It is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63342	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4. amendment also to the Croatian Road Encouragement, the reconstruction of King Tomislav Street in column 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63343	It is also not accepted for the reason I said before, in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-16-0.u63344	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposed decision. Score. The decision was made by a majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 6 against. Third, I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. Score. This decision was made by a majority of votes, 83 votes in favour, no abstentions, and 6 against. Fourthly, I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. Score. The decision was made by a majority of votes, 79 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 6 against. Fifthly, I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2011 and the 2012 and 2013 projections. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. Score. This decision was made by a majority of votes, 83 votes in favour, nothing abstentions and six against. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the proposings, a revision of the text of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 and the projections for 2012 and 2013 and of the Financial Plans and their projections before their publication in the National Journal." I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This conclusion was reached by most votes, 81 votes for, 1 abstention and 4 against. Thank you very much.
