ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48940	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to present to you a Plan of Legislative Activities for the conclusion of negotiations in the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. As every year, we must provide parliamentary representatives with support and timely information on all legislative activities arising from the accession process to the European Union, and it is particularly important to do so at this final stage. Given the key role of the Croatian Parliament in discussing and adopting legislative proposals, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this Plan of Legislative Activities as a prerequisite for closing the chapter of the negotiations that has not yet been closed. In the accession process of the European Union, Croatia fulfilled the main obligations relating to the harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the European Union. By passing 472 European laws and a thousand 86 sublegal acts in the period from 2000 to now, we have maximumly aligned our legal system with the European system and transposed into our legislation the best legal solutions resulting from the legal gain of the European Union. In 2009 alone, we passed 82 laws and 229 sublegal acts. As far as the accession process itself is concerned, we can say that in 2009, especially after reaching agreement with the Republic of Slovenia on how to resolve the border issue, we achieved a significant breakthrough in the negotiations and entered into their final and decisive phase. Croatia therefore sees with optimism in 2010 which we see as a decisive and final year of the technical part of our negotiations on joining the European Union. At an intergovernmental conference in the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union held on 19 February 2010, two negotiating chapters were officially opened, 13 - Fisheries and 27 – The environment so that we currently have 30 open chapters of which 17 and temporarily closed, making more than half of the total number of negotiating chapters that have 33. We also take great success in the fact that last Friday the call was made to Croatia for the submission of the negotiating position in the key chapter of the negotiations, that is, Chapter 23 – Justice and Fundamental Rights, and we immediately forwarded our negotiating position to the European Union. We also very soon expect a call for the submission of negotiating positions in Chapters 8 – Market competition and its formal opening. We therefore expect all the remaining chapters to be opened during the Spanish presidency, which means by the half of this year, especially because Croatia wants to make progress without delay in meeting the conditions necessary for their temporary closure. I am primarily referring to Chapter 8 – Competition, Chapter 23 – Justice and Fundamental Rights and Chapter 31 – Foreign Security and Defence Policy. The confirmation that the Croatian negotiations have entered the final phase is certainly also the beginning of work on the process of technical adjustments to the European Union's acquis through which the facts of the future membership of the Republic of Croatia will be entered into the legal regulations of the European Union. Further optimism also provides us with the fact that the ad hoc working group for the development of an access contract with the Republic of Croatia has started work as well as the adoption of a financial package for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In order to successfully end the technical conclusion of the negotiations, the Republic of Croatia is determined to continue to implement the necessary reforms and all other activities necessary for the entry into the European Union but primarily to strengthen the Croatian economy and society as a whole. It is precisely with a view to monitoring progress towards achieving all remaining obligations under the negotiation process that we have prepared this legislative plan for the completion of negotiations on Croatia's full membership in the European Union for 2010. The plan envisions the adoption of 12 laws that are a prerequisite for closing the negotiating chapter that has not yet been closed and their adoption is planned for the first half of this year. In the first quarter we foresee the adoption of three legislative proposals, one law has already been passed in the Croatian Parliament, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings. In the second quarter, we predict the adoption of nine further legislative proposals. It is 12 laws relating to the closure of chapters open at the Intergovernmental Conference in October 2009, that is Chapter 4 – Freedom of movement of capital, Chapter 11 – Agriculture and rural development, 24 – Justice, freedom and security, or chapters that are not yet open and the laws in question are expected criteria for closure, that is, Chapter – Competition and Chapter 23 – Justice and Fundamental Rights. With this plan, Croatia continues to implement reforms in the area of state aid, particularly support for agriculture and rural development. Then, we continue to coordinate the financial services sector. But most of the laws envisaged concern further strengthening the independence and professionalism of the Croatian judiciary. It should be pointed out in particular that the adoption of some of these laws also depends on amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. These are the three laws, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Attorneyy and the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, by presenting a legislative plan for the conclusion of the negotiations in the current year, I assess how it confirms the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to implement the remaining reforms key to membership in the European Union. Our consistency in the implementation of planned activities will be a clear sign to the European Union that the Republic of Croatia is a credible partner and a country that sees itself in the very near future as a full member. Finally, I would like to point out that the acquis of the European Union is constantly developing and Croatia will also be obliged as a Member State to comply with its national regulations with the acquis of the European Union. Therefore, this year the Government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn up and adopted for the first time a Programme for the acquisition and implementation of the legal property of the European Union for 2010. We have joined this document in preparation for Croatia's functioning under the conditions of full membership in the European Union. It is a programme for transposing the new acquis of the European Union as other Member States have. By virtue of this, Croatia shall amend its legislation in parallel with the Member States of the European Union and, consequently, the Croatian Parliament shall discuss and adopt the laws set out in that programme. With this approach, Croatia is clearly showing its readiness to act as a Member State at this time. We will bring these programmes in the coming years of our membership in the European Union when we will work together through participation in the creation of common policies of the European Union to promote and Croatian national interests. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48941	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48942	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This year is without a doubt of particular importance for Croatia's accession process to the European Union. In 2010, we should conclude accession negotiations, and a concrete plan by the end of this year, i.e. as we heard and from the minister is to open the remaining three chapters by summer, and by the end of the year to close all chapters including those we are not yet talking about, and these are the two remaining, so on the presentation of Croatia in different bodies, Parliament, the Commission, the Council, and if such issues be those which are called other issues. The Croatian side is fully prepared to do its part of the job, and it seems that such intentions for the first half are shown very clearly by the Spanish Presidency, and we believe that the next presidency will pursue the same goal. If such a rhythm is made possible by all EU institutions, and I see no reason not to, then we can sign a accession agreement this year. In fact, this means that, in every respect, and certainly when it comes to legislative work, in terms of preparation for accession, and in this respect, I stress for preparation because the acquis is changing, complementing and harmonising a permanent job that does not stop at the time of signing or entering the EU, and under the Lisbon Treaty, this national parliament will have other tasks. So there will be jobs when the job prepares for accession is completed, and that will be at the most by the end of this year. I am convinced that this is good news for all of us, and in particular I think they have the right to be proud of all those who have been warm and dedicated through all these years, and even in times when it was not clear to us when our efforts will be valorized and rewarded, at this great job. So we came to the conclusion of this long road where there were expected and unexpected obstacles, but I believe that in the end we will enter the EU more prepared than it was in some countries in the previous wave of enlargement, and I am not just thinking about the countries that have last entered the EU. And so I think that this will pay off in its own way, and that really membership should be paid off, and it will have to work constantly, and I think that this is the most important of all messages that we need to understand and pass on to others. It should therefore be borne in mind that this big and important job that we have done so far is only a small part of the job, I would dare say an introductory job that dealt with a relatively limited number of people. There is a growing time ahead in which the number of those who will have to practically participate on a daily basis in membership or the consequences of membership will increase significantly. In a direct or indirect way, it will affect the business and business of all in Croatia. This is worth both for the Government and its bodies and for us in the Croatian Parliament, but also for the bodies of local and regional authorities, business and numerous other associations, and not to list which groups all of these apply to. In that part, I also see a number of tasks that we, among others, have, among other things, parliamentary representatives, which is that in our election units we encourage representatives of local authorities and institutions of the company, the civil sector, etc. to prepare more actively for membership when we are a member of the European Union, to inform the public about the different aspects of the importance of accession, to participate actively in the preparation of the Croatian Parliament as an institution whose representatives and working bodies will have a large additional job from the first day of being a member of the European Union. While there were more than a hundred laws ahead of us in earlier years, this year's and last plan of this type has a relatively short list of legislative tasks and they are mainly related to yet unopened chapters 23 and 8 and several open chapters awaiting closure. And while we can really rightly say that we have done a great job in the last eight years, we have heard from the minister about which these figures are being done, about harmonisation of the legislation, we must not forget how we still have work to do on the negotiations, but also another kind of challenges and jobs after the accession contract begins to be ratified. In doing so, I cannot mention this occasion and the amendments to the Constitution without which it is not possible to close certain chapters and it is generally not possible to complete this important business. I hope that, as is the case with the work of the National Committee and work in other parliamentary bodies whose work is related to Croatia's accession to the European Union, and in this matter will confirm that Croatia's membership in the European Union is a common national priority without the rest. Finally, the legislative plan that we are discussing is a list of laws that the Croatian Parliament has to do in the first half to maintain the planned pace of closing the chapter in the negotiations. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club fully supports the proposed activity plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48943	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48944	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This list looks nice, actually more beautiful than any other one, because it is short and shows that we have relatively little work in the Assembly regarding new legislation, although, by the assessment of my and the HNS Club, something more than it says here, and of course, by another list, it will become now our permanent job. So, unlike those years when we had 125 or I don't know how many laws we had to harmonize during that period of one year on this list that was before us and that the government sent to the Croatian Parliament is 12 laws. That's what we should put into our program. We've done one of those 12 so far at the beginning of this month. As the minister stressed, some depend on the constitution. Based on the status of the negotiations, we have three more chapters to open and a total of 16 chapters to close. With these laws based on an inventory that we have done within the National Committee and, of course, which all members of the National Committee have been present and have a list of these tasks in those 16 chapters where they have been, where they were both prime minister and minister and head of all chapters that have not yet been opened or which have not yet been closed. This list before us will need to be based on insight into this inventory, so what should be done in order to move into these 16 chapters will need to be completed by our judgment. For example, in Chapter 23, other than what is stated here, there will be a specific reform of the administrative trial and a certain reform of the trade trial. So, about that, you're probably going to have to come to parliamentary procedure with some other laws besides these 12 that write here. Chapter 33 will likely require further establishment of a system for payment of funds to the European Union budget. In this proposal that is before us is not mentioned, but according to this one inventory that we have done, we will definitely have this job yet to come. This is the chapter of the financial and budgetary provisions. In Chapter 27, it is a chapter of the environment that is open, but it is not yet closed to us by some insight which we in Parliament, so in the National Committee we have yet to see yet a sea and Danube strategy which we also do not see in this list that it is mentioned as something that needs to be brought into Parliament, and it will need to be brought. And in Chapter 4. - The freedom of movement of capital at the very least is still ahead of us to amend the INA and HT privatisation Act and anything relating to the gold share and anything related to the social clauses that we have. So I'm just stating this as examples of some things that he's starting to see into what we should do in 16 chapters that we still need to close or open, which should still be done and not in the legislative list, say, some kind of assignment. So, the list of these 12 laws that came before us. These things will obviously be needed during the session, so during our session to complete and add certain laws to this list. But even in our view, that list shouldn't significantly cross these new laws that are here on list 12 should not, when a single integrated list of all that needs to be done, go a long way beyond the figure of 20. So, this list of course we'll support him as a club of HNS. But I warn Parliament that based on the insight that Parliament itself has, so the inventory that we have made this is not a definitive list. That will have to be at least four, five things in this insight that we have added during the session. There is another list that the minister did not, namely which the minister mentioned but we did not get for this point today in the debate, which is to harmonise legislation in those chapters that we have closed but where the directives and rules within the European Union are being amended. So where the European Union is changing its own regulation in areas where we have ended negotiations, we must now follow the changes within the European legislation. I think for the first time we have such a monitoring planned for this spring, to see how we are progressing and how we follow the harmonisation of Croatian legislation in the chapters that we have completed. So, not in chapters that we haven't temporarily closed yet, but in those we've temporarily closed, which is a kind of training or a kind of trial for what we're going to do in the future permanently. So, by entering the European Union, we will permanently harmonize Croatian legislation with new directives and new rules to be adopted and voted within the European Union. And in that sense, on behalf of the HNS Club here, I would suggest that maybe we make one of our own proposals or lists of tasks, trainings, which within the Assembly would not only for the parliamentary services, because as many of you probably know it is at this point in action, so we have one project with Hungary that is training the administrative staff of the Assembly for this job of permanent harmonisation and working with European institutions, once we become a member state. We at the HNS club think it would be a good idea if MPs were to pass some kind of, to make ourselves some kind of training, to get acquainted with the functioning of Parliament and parliamentary MPs, so not just the service, in a position of permanent harmonisation, so the continued alignment of national legislation with European legislation. And this second list that can be found on the Internet, but we do not have it in the materials for today's session, and there are 38 laws, this list of laws that will be harmonised under the new European Union directives in the areas where we have finished negotiations is a good training or a good example of how it will only work much more dynamicly and much more intensively when Croatia enters the European Union. Here it is, so on behalf of the HNS Club, of course we will support this legislative plan. We warn that it needs to be complemented, so these are not all laws for chapters that we intend to open and close. It is our real plan and something that I think we should all work on to end the opening of all chapters to the summer break of European institutions that is in August, so in the Spanish and one month of the Belgian presidency, and to close all chapters preferably except three to four, if we are going to get there in time to end negotiations this year, and there are a number of reasons why it is. So we support this proposal and we ask it to be completed, or we warn that it needs to be complemented by those laws that the negotiations in the 16 chapters still require, so in those we have not yet closed, they still require that which are not on this list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48945	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48946	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Even from the point of view of saving in the Croatian Parliament in this difficult and crisis time, it is good that for the first time, the list of legislative activities to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the European acquis stood on one page of the paper. I say for the first time because so far, at least a hundred laws have been on such lists when legislative action was planned during the coming year. This shows first that our legislative reforms, and then the reforms in total, and then the negotiations themselves came close to the final stage, but this also shows that the Croatian Parliament has established a proper business procedure, but also established an appropriate practice that allowed Parliament to simply not be a narrow throat to process all of that, those previously needed foundations for European reforms. The assembly is obvious, and according to this list it has done well its legislative work on European legislation. I believe that more than 500 laws will be in total by the end of this year, i.e. by the end of the negotiations reached in the Croatian Parliament in order to comply with European legislation. Of which, I would say almost half will be delivered in this assembly of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, we express on behalf of the SDP club the satisfaction of the way the Croatian Parliament acted in its legislative activity and the way it acted and contributed to the overall process of bringing Croatia closer to the European Union. What remains as we continue to plan legislation is not related to the conclusion of the negotiations or to the conclusion of this or to the fulfilment of such a legislative plan, because we must continue to plan legislation and when we enter into European Union membership, because this is a moving target, this is EU legislation, the acquis is changing, it is constantly changing and simply our competent authorities should be able to provide for in advance, and European bodies are doing so, and it will be easier for them to plan changes which, even after membership in the European Union, the Croatian Parliament will have to work. I therefore expect this practice of planning legislative harmonisation to continue, and we expect that the Croatian Parliament will continue for both 2011, and 2012, and for all the following years membership to receive such a plan of legislative activities so that both the Parliament and the committees can prepare themselves in advance for such a legislative role as the Croatian Parliament. One other element would also like to emphasize. Unfortunately, he was less or less expressed in good light than if we were to compare him to this legislation planning and implementing legislation itself. It is about assessing the impact of the regulations, the European rules to be adopted. In fact, practice has been established, so I would almost say a commitment in most European parliaments to deliver one very complete assessment of the administrative, regulatory, financial effects that this new regulation will bring. For now, in all these years of harmonisation, in a good way and in a good way, I would say the established practice of assessing the financial, or budgetary effects of new legislation, and I think that we can be satisfied on this plan, or at least the constant progress is visible in the effectiveness and improvement of the assessment of the budgetary effects of new legislation. But new legislation requires not only budgetary, or changes, but also significant changes, either in an administrative organisation, an institutional organisation. It is seeking impact assessments on other parts of the legislation and such a legislative impact assessment would in any case bring closer to the quality of our work and our legislative planning of what is happening in the EU's parliaments. We have had one failed attempt to establish a competent authority which would deal with the assessment of the regulatory effects of European regulations. That attempt is public in the media I'd say ridiculed. The government very quickly accepted such assessments that it, which was, the Institute, the Agency for the Assessment of Regulatory Effects, was not needed, and then some other organisational structure was designed. However, I stress, no matter how and how institutionally this regulatory impact assessment is organised, it must liven up and therefore the SDP club warns of this fact and this element of the overall quality of our legislative process. I would warn and take this opportunity to talk about what would be good to do or still fix in the Croatian Parliament on committees in legislative matters related to European legislation. In fact, here we all agree, obviously, that the process of harmonisation of legislation is going well. However, what needs to be better is the ex post monitoring of the implementation of European and overall national legislation. I think the board of directors can do more than they've done before. They can contribute much more to establishing dialogue with the relevant ministries, means with the authorities of the Executive Authority and to establishing one system of regular, I do not want to exaggerate and say monthly, but at least half-yearly communication with the relevant ministries that the relevant committees of the Croatian Parliament should report on what is going on in the implementation, not just every single regulation in the competence of a parliamentary committee, but at least those fundamental system regulations which determine the essence of things in areas controlled by each parliamentary committee. Thus, such reports by the competent ministries would be good if the competent authorities of the Croatian Parliament had their agenda as often as possible in order to have a better insight into the implementation of European and national legislation. In order to have a better insight and better ability to influence the removal of all that is common in this dialogue with the Government, it finds that it is still holding back, disabling, slowing down or making it difficult to implement new legislation. And here I would finally look back, I would say something about this, which will happen in the Croatian Parliament after the Lisbon Treaty has been adopted, that is, after Croatia becomes a member of the EU and after it starts acting under the Lisbon Treaty. The Croatian Parliament is obviously not going to stop and will not stop its European legislative activity after these 12 or 15, I agree that this year's list of European laws will not fit into 12 laws, that there will be more of them to finish the negotiations, but even that reduced list, it will not be the final and special work that the Croatian Parliament will do on the European agenda. The more I think that there is now a stronger, greater activity and action of the Croatian Parliament in at least two areas. According to the Lisbon Treaty, the Croatian Parliament will have to be informed by the European institutions about what it intends to define at European level as a common European legal regulation. And it will have 6 weeks after each notification to declare whether it thinks that this matter should be regulated at European level or should be left to national legislation to regulate this specific matter. Therefore, this testing will be a significant part of the work of the Croatian Parliament, which will seek a completely different organisation and work by committees, the establishment of probably and specifically specialised committees for such activity, and then the agreement on how such a review of subsidiarity will work in practice, i.e. how the rules of procedure will regulate the bodies of the Parliament that decide whether a regulation is to be made at European or national level. When it is decided to do so together, there is another procedure again, if one third of the EU's parliaments say that it should not be decided at European level on specific matter, then it is it that it is removed from the legislative list, but when it is decided that some matter should be regulated at European level, then it is the government, or the competent ministries within the Council, that harmonises this legislation and we will also have to define by constitutional changes the relationship between the Parliament and the Government in all situations where the Government and the Government institutions agree legislation in the EU institutions. The job is practically at the end, and I think we found a good way to define it. This relationship and dialogue between the Government and the Parliament in harmonising European legislation, but what remains of the Croatian Parliament is no doubt giving an opinion or first assessing whether the Government should have some firmer mandate in harmonising the law and, if necessary, what the mandate should look like. Therefore, the re-organisation of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and the business activities of the Croatian Parliament in assessing the mandate that should be given or should not be given to the Government in harmonising European legislation will be a significant and completely different way of working compared to what the Assembly and all of us in the Assembly have become used to so far. Here, in this context, in the context of what has been done well so far, and in the context of what is waiting for us to do and to try to point out in possible ways of optimal regulation of any business, any substantive way of further action of the Assembly in planning, in the adoption and in the evaluations of the impact of the legislation, and then the monitoring of the implementation of legislation in this context of the SDP Club wants to support this list of legislative activities for this year and wants, of course, to participate actively and to give active support to the overall process that awaits both the Parliament and the Government and the competent ministries and wants to be an active participant in the dialogue that we will have to develop on these legislative topics in the period ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48947	Thank you. What? We don't have any applications here for the club. Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, first Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48948	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to make a contribution to this debate. We have this list of laws we're talking about this morning. The first thing I would like to say is that both the Government and the Parliament have done a good job, obviously that we have fulfilled most of our obligations since 2000 in a way that, as already said here, we have passed 472 laws and over 1000 sublegal acts, and in the last year, only 82 laws with 229 sublegal acts. There are 12 other laws left that are a prerequisite for closing chapters and we have three chapters that are not open and that is competition number 8, 31, foreign and security defence policy, as well as Chapter 23, for which I jointly express the satisfaction that we have received the call for a negotiating position. What should be noted is that among these 12 laws we have already passed one, so there are 11 of them, and for 3 we need to change the Constitution we have already heard. For the area of justice, freedom and security, the Law on judicial cooperation with the Member States of the European Union, and for the two laws of Chapter 23, which is the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council and the other law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Attorney's Office. We hope that after harmonising for the amendments to the Constitution and these laws we will successfully pass. So I can express the satisfaction that this bill is drawn up on two papers, but that doesn't mean that the job that's ahead of us is simple. Much of the work we have done, however, is the fact that we still have a big job to do, and it should be stressed that the work of this Parliament in the part of the coordination continues and that the harmonisation of that legislation that we have already changed and for which the European Union has in the meantime adopted new directives or has changed something that has already been here. It is very important to emphasise and we have heard that the Lisbon Agreement gives new powers to national parliaments, as Mr. Minister has already said. So according to the Lisbon Treaty, the role of national parliaments is great, the role of equality of Member States is stressed, and it is very important to respect their national identity including local and regional autonomy, I think it is very important that our citizens know. Also, for the first time, the national parliament will have a direct impact on the decision-making process under the Lisbon Treaty, all proposed European Union laws will have to be sent to national parliaments. We have already heard that eight weeks before national parliaments will be notified, so there is a possibility that if a sufficient number of Member States' parliaments object that the proposal can be amended, complemented or withdrawn, which has not been the case so far. Such a system of timely warning allows Member States' parliaments to play an important role in order not to exceed their powers and to respect all those national, regional or local specificities. What I also want to say is glad that an ad hoc working group is being established that prepares the accession contract. The fact that we continue with reforms, as is said here, that the financial services sector continues to be coordinated and most of what we are doing now refers to strengthening the justice system. So as a Member State and hopefully, we haven't spoken here date but I believe that date is no later than 1. 1. In 2012, although no one said it, I believe 2011 will be used to coordinate in all 27 national parliaments and we will be from 1. 1. In 2012, being a full member depends, of course, on all of us, depends on us MPs sitting in various bodies, committees, interparliamentary unions, various delegations, to use our role as lobbyists, although it is not formalised but implies that we act and talk to parliamentarians on the sidelines, because it will be very important that this contract is ratified in all the Member States in their parliaments. So we still have a lot of work to do, and I believe that, as we have done so far, we will successfully do the rest of this work compared to 12 laws and everything that is not related to the laws and is related to other things relating to full membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48949	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48950	Thank you very much President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It is this plan of legislative activities that shows us that we, as the Parliament, seem to have already done much, given the large number of laws that have been agreed and which have been adopted and are tied to negotiations, and we see from this report so far that there are three other chapters left, and I think we really have reached one level that we can say that at the end of the opening of all chapters. What is characteristic is that in this set of agricultural, food production, we have opened up a chapter of fisheries, and it is certainly one significant level that we should end up closing all three chapters, 11th agriculture, 12th veterinary or food safety, and now fishing. However, closing full negotiations will certainly be when we close all these chapters, and of these 33 total numbers of Chapter 30 is open, so we should close 16 more chapters. Then I'm sure we'll be able to say that we're completely done with this job. However, this plan shows that all chapters need further legislative activity here and listed. When we look at it, it is 15 legislative measures, i.e. I think it is 15, that we need to finish that part, and then we will be able to open negotiations with the European Union. However, it is certain that this number of laws is also required for the closure and closure of these chapters. But since we know, I'm going to take a special look at this chapter 11. - Agriculture and rural development, we know that this chapter requires a large number of delays from the country, etc. the ability to use, i.e. the purchase of land of our land and other changes, especially in fisheries, a number of the delays we are looking for have been set. And now it turns out that if we want to finish it, we must certainly adopt in this situation this very Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development. I think the passing of that law, or these amendments, is because when the law is passed, we have warned that such a law certainly cannot end the negotiations in this chapter. And after that, when an envelope that will be 700m euros for incentives in agriculture appeared, we saw that through that part of 50% of these incentives should go into direct incentives, 50% for rural development, or Europe that will increasingly reduce these direct incentives. Unfortunately, this was particularly interesting last year, the competition in how much more we will promise as soon as they show up on the streets, the current prime minister promised to pay off the milk immediately, said Minister Cobankovic that the wheat would be paid. However, those promises have now come into the situation that these latest statements by the minister are reducing 40% of the incentives. And normally we will see the next days probably from the first, the problems that will arise whether these problems will be on the street or negotiations by farmers, we will be witnesses and we will probably see. However, what is important is the reduction of direct incentives is necessary if we want to end this chapter 11 and that is why this amendment law must go in this direction. It's probably what the minister said now, not only do we not have the money, but it's the same thing to approach this problem. Normally, it's been coming up over the past few years to make it simpler and easier. However, the problem that we have is that over 50% of the incentives receive one 5% of the major producers. The rest of them, they're disoriented from 2 to 20 thousand kunas which are actually social donations. Therefore, that rural part should probably solve those who live, and they live in rural areas and thus create one possibility of life and these people and their work on their property. As for rural development and investment in these areas, it is said that 50% of the incentives, i.e. this agricultural envelope, will have to go to rural development. You need to see the way it's going to back out. We're just saying it's going to be that, that's it, it's going to close like this, like that. However, we also know that certain reform procedures are needed. It is necessary to implement and adopt the Rural Development Strategy primarily. We have over 50% of our areas in the Republic of Croatia, especially Slavonia and Baranja. The only municipality that is partly rural remains highly rural, the County of Osijek-Baranja, the other four counties are totally not to say rural areas. So, according to those speaking criteria. However, the primary realization of these funds is to go through the realisation and rural development strategies. But she can't just be on paper. We bring strategies that remain on paper that have no implementing part and which as such cannot and must not safely withdraw funds. It will withdraw the funds of programmes that are for rural areas and which must exist and which will be as such. That is why I believe that this is legislation, that behind these legal supplements and changes is a lot of work, there are painful cuts, because as I said, you can see already what it means to reduce direct incentives and what it will bring. And precisely to implement this legislative action programme, to create conditions that we can withdraw funds by entering the European Union. We must often still think that there will be some painful procedures, but which are necessary to make such changes, and primarily concerning this Law on State Support in Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48951	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48952	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister's colleagues and colleagues. And after all, it's still moving. It's one such conclusion if a man looks at these two pages of text. Your comment is with this debate so far. I'm glad we got one review that's visible to both citizens and citizens who are following this House, that what we're doing has some end, has its turn, has why. Therefore, in this context, I would also like to say the current criticism that has gone so far has gone in the direction that what we are doing is better, that it is more convincing, that it is consistent and that we finally see that and the date in the final line and the date and the conclusion of the negotiations. There are three things that have been talked about here, I won't elaborate them too much. You've been talking about these 12 measures that we're about to know. counterpart Pusic spoke of several elements concerning the National Committee he detected. Maybe you could have networked it somehow to make it one joint effort because that's what we need to consider. And the third thing that's been discussed are chapters in which there's still something that needs to be done from that catalog of course. However, there are more chapters that have been blocked. Mr. Minister, I would still like to invite you to tell us something about the chapter – Foreign Policy and so on, it's good to know. It is not a waste of citizens or citizens, especially those who really in all areas of their work and activities and advocate access, advocate open dialogue on it, and I think it only benefits. One element listed by my colleague Mimica regarding the Lisbon Agreement, or an assessment of whether some directives should be adopted as solutions to the national character, or whether they go into European legislation. It's good to keep an eye on it, it's good to know that it's happening, and it's good to do a projection on some examples, i.e. simulation of such possible solutions, and then according to these projections, simulations are once pro-and counter-determined, which will one day be better for Croatia. I also wanted to point out that it is very important today that at the beginning and towards the end of the negotiations to have good public contact with citizens and citizens, we have a public link so that citizens and citizens really have insight into what is being done. I personally want to move forward probably in the quality of the people who are conducting the negotiations, which are part of the team, and I have no particular reason to stop believing it. And that's why it's good for citizens and citizens to know that. I think it is one element that can only benefit us because the European Union is primarily within the political concept and we need to know what awaits us all. Here, in Chapter 23, if I am not mistaken, Chapter 27 is a large area of maritime and Danube strategies. These are areas related to neighbours, the wider neighbourhood, the European environment, and it is therefore important to take care of it as important as Chapter 23, we have also heard a lot in advance about how difficult it will be. Here, it's good to see that some laws are already included in the second quarter. In that sense, I probably don't have any reservations to support this bill, but here's what I'd like is for the minister to give us a little more comprehensive reports on the chapters that are still waiting for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48953	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48954	Thank you very much, Vice President. As part of our approximation to the European Union, we are harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation. Why are we harmonizing these laws? For two reasons. Well, harmonised laws are certainly the conditions for access, but I guess we're coordinating them for our own sake. We adopt European standards of conduct in this way. We thus show that we are Europeans and not only because we have European harmonised laws but also because we are under such European harmonised laws and we are acting. And that's where the problem arises, Minister Jandrokovic, who I want to talk about. One of the laws fully in line with European legislation, with all European Union directives, is the Law on Croatian Radio-Television. So we have the law, but we don't do it. The law is being broken by the Minister. Where does the law break? You wouldn't believe it, right here in the Croatian Parliament. European Consistent Law. And who's breaking it? You would not believe that either, representatives of the Croatian Parliament from the ruling party. The law clearly and fully foresees and prescribes the way in which the Croatian Radio-Television Councils are formed, and this fully harmonised law says that members of the Croatian Radio-Television Council will be elected in this Assembly through the process of harmonising parliamentary parties and if this harmonisation is not to be chosen by one member of the council on a parliamentary majority proposal and the other on a parliamentary minority proposal. And now these days Ministers when to choose in this Assembly members of the Croatian Radio-Television Council on the proposal of a parliamentary minority will not do so to your party's representatives. They violate the European harmonised law. They do it even when they're warned to break it. What's their objection? They point out some kind of objection to a potential conflict of interest. We have another law equally consistent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48955	Mr Stazić, on the agenda is the Proposal for a legislative action plan for the conclusion of negotiations on full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. You are now discussing the application or non-application of one law. Is it possible, within this agenda theme, to discuss any law already passed in this topic? I don't think so. It is a legislative plan for the conclusion of the negotiations. The minister is and all MPs have discussed the laws to be passed, the plan of these laws, not the application of one law but the law. I do not enter into the measure of things nor can it be entered now in this debate whether this law, relating to the formation of the HRT Council, is it applied correctly or is it incorrectly applied. But that's not the point, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48956	Vice President, three things if you'll allow me. The first thing I want to know is whether you're using my time for your debate or if you're going to extend my time for my debate. Another thing I'm curious about is whether you're still a member of the HDZ Club because you didn't go out with your colleagues. The third thing I'm interested in is whether it's a speech that European harmonised laws don't apply beyond the subject we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48957	You will receive an immediate answer to all three of your questions. I am still a member of the HDZ Club for 20 years and more and I will be more and more the same years to come. Secondly, I won't deny you that time or count it. And third, I am obliged to warn you that you are obliged to stick to the subject because it is ordered by the Rules of Procedure. Not me, it's the Rules of Procedure. Be kind enough to stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48958	Here I am going to stick to the subject as I've stuck to it so far. We are harmonising European legislation and we have a plan for its harmonisation and that plan and we are implementing what is good, but then we are not implementing harmonised laws and that is the problem I want to talk about and that I am talking about. We have another such minister in accordance with the law. It's the law to prevent conflicts of interest...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48959	That's not the subject again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48960	Which clearly states who decides whether a person is in conflict of interest or not. It's a European harmonised law, and it doesn't say in that law that the HDZ Club or any other club...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48961	It's not a subject. Comrade Stazić, be discreet and do not, as you see you could now debate, you and anyone else, if this were in line with the agenda on any of those 500 laws that are in line with the acquis communare, with the legislation of the European Union on the application of any of these laws. Well, you see for yourself, and I can see for yourself that you're wrong. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48962	Vice-President, on this list delivered to us by the Ministry first in line under number 1 is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Radio Television. First. Look what the ministry said to us. And you can't tell me right now that I'm talking off topic just because I'm telling the truth about HDZ agents breaking the law. So don't keep trying to prevent the delivery maybe for you and your club of painful truths, but the truth that concerns the public in this country. Let me finish the debate, Vice President, I beg you nicely. So, not only is the Law on Radio Television being violated here in the Parliament, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests is being violated because only the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests that and only that can decide whether someone is in conflict of interest or not. Certainly no club and no HDZ club. What are the consequences? Catastrophics. Director not selected... There's a temporary situation, and what happens in that temporary state? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The temporary director hired seven new people outside the house at 3500 employees. Seven out of the house. Signs the solutions for the increase in wages without any criteria, for the revision appointed by a person who does not have an audit exam. The European Union is seeking not only the harmonisation of our legislation but also the fight against corruption. This kind of behavior encourages corruption, opens all the doors to corruption on HRT. The prime minister points out that in the last six months it has been done more in bringing the European Union closer and harmonising legislation than in the past four years. The prime minister also seeks to promote as a anti-corruption fighter, however, she is totally deaf to the fact that HDZ lawmakers are breaking European laws in the parliament. So that you wouldn't be surprised at the violation of the law tomorrow, as she was surprised by the level of corruption in the government where she was vice president, I asked her to have a conversation with me to introduce her to that fact. Seven days her cabinet hasn't even answered. And Minister Jandrokovic, which is now left to us than to address the European Commission, introduces them to how harmonised laws are respected in Croatia, that is, how they are broken. What else is to address the ambassadors of all European Member States of the European Union and to give them that fact. And Minister Jandrokovic, what problems will you and Croatia face because HDZ representatives do not want to behave in accordance with the law, in accordance with better customs in the European Union because they conduct lawlessness and force here. That's the question you have to ask yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48963	In doing so, warn them and meet colleagues Stazic and with the provision of the article, I think it is paragraph 12. The HRT Act referred to in the article I believe that paragraphs 12 or 18 is 12. Don't forget that, which says something about a conflict of interest in HRT. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48964	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I share the satisfaction that the literary book has fallen to three letters, so that on one page we have a full review of the legislative activity that we need to complete it in order to fulfill our work of the Croatian Parliament regarding the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. However, the fact is that many of these laws that are on this list have recently been dealt with, amended, and complemented. For example, the Law on State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development was adopted on 15.7., or declared, published in the "National Journal" 15.7.2009. Then we discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, which entered into force on 21.12.2009. And here, a full month and a half later, the same law is mentioned in this plan again. Similarly with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorney's Office. It entered into force on 21.12.2009. Here it is again in the plan to exchange it and supplement it. My question is why, when we already know what the acquis of the European Union is, we do not do it in a single reading. What has happened in these two, two, and a half months, is that the laws that have been passed have to be discussed and revised again. Our problem is that most of the laws we have passed regarding Croatia's accession to the European Union are not in force but will begin to apply as soon as we enter the Union. Has anyone made any simulations that will actually happen in the Republic of Croatia on the day of our country's accession to the European Union. When all these laws begin to apply suddenly, whether we are threatened by the overall collapse of the legal system and especially by the Croatian economy. In this context, by risking that Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament reminds me that this is not the subject of this debate, I remind you of an extremely demanding segment of technical legislation that we have undertaken, and we have not yet fulfilled it. It's an invisible front, perhaps not as attractive as these laws, but for the overall functioning of the system, especially in the economy, it's extremely important. And the fact is that it neither works nor that we have fulfilled all the segments and obligations we have made to ourselves. Therefore, it should be dealt with in more detail on all fronts and with such obligations and laws that we have already passed, yet not being applied or ineffectively functioning. In front of all of us, it opens up new obligations, new duties especially in parliamentary diplomacy to promote the interests of the Republic of Croatia in all segments and all opportunities. But Mr. Minister, we need to be more detailed about this. In fact, this is a list, so it's very short, so it stops on one page. But there are no metrics inside, the reasons why these laws are harmonised or brought especially in the context of the fact that I have already mentioned, which is that some laws are regular customers and that almost in a cyclic rhythm with a very small frequency appear on our benches. When we look at the assessment of the law, it is usually said in the assessment of the situation that the law is partially harmonised or almost fully consistent with the acquis of the European Union, and we are concerned about the very part that is not harmonised and why it is not harmonised. Such reviews in the assessment of the situation are almost never available and that is, in my opinion, why they are then very soon again on our assembly benches. And to conclude, I am really pleased that we have such relatively small legislative activity as to harmonize our legal system with the European acquis. But I'm really very, very worried that most of the laws we're making are not yet in force and there's really no simulation of what effect they have on our daily life, especially on the state of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48965	Thank you. At 10.43, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48966	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, it is commendable that Mr. Minister participates in this debate and personally. On today's agenda, here is this piece of paper that says that the theme of the proposal for a legislative action plan for the conclusion of negotiations on the full membership of the Republic of Croatia is in the European Union. Since I have been regularly convened by the Parliament since the beginning of the work, which is more than that, I have witnessed that, as you yourself have said, some 5 hundred legislative proposals have arrived on the benches of parliamentary deputies in line with the legislation of the European Union. Since this is the most legislative body in the Republic of Croatia, here is a plan for the first half of this year: these 12 legislative measures of five chapters opened in negotiations with the European Union. My colleagues in the debates before me have pointed out what legislative proposals or legislative measures I will not repeat, but it is interesting that we have already discussed some legislative proposals. Somehow, this alignment with European Union legislation seems to go one step at a time, or in order to say step by step, which is modern today to be used in foreign versions of our words. I, as my colleague Franic said not full months ago, also discussed housing savings, may have left that out, too, about housing savings. Here in the first quarter of this year it says we'll discuss it again. Is there any way that we can adopt these European laws and bring them into line in one step, in one debate, or do we really have to discuss the same legal proposals several times, and I don't think that it's just, not only the changes in European legislation and that are conditional on our adjustment, but rather some kind of saying one, let's say a proverbial negligent or negligent, and then we discuss some legislative proposals several times to get final compliance with European legislation. In the suggestions that are listed here, there are 12, it's special, there are several interesting ones. One of them is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development. It is chapter 11 of the negotiations with the European Union and it is actually a chapter of interest, in particular for the region from which I come, so for the region of Slavonia and Baranja, for the five Slavonian-Baranja counties. In light of these announcements to say cutting support to farmers by 40%, which is here two, three days ago announced and said Minister Cobankovic, it is clear to our people that this is about changing the agricultural support policy, in a way that goes to so-called. structural support. Regardless of when I asked here at the Croatian Parliament and the chairman of the National Committee for Negotiations with the European Union, Mrs Pusic, if she knew the platform or the negotiating position of Croatia about this chapter, she said she had no information about it. Both we and today in this House have no information about what the negotiating position is, however you wish, the position of Croatia in that chapter. Is there something going on about that? What has Croatia achieved in the talks and negotiations on this chapter? What's our farm gonna look like after that? Will there be a change in the Law on the availability of agricultural land? Who will be or be able to become the owner of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia? So what will happen about the areas with the most agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia? That's what we're interested in. And we still have no views on it, starting positions or, as the Republic of Croatia's platform is said to be in negotiations with the European Union. And now this law is going to come to us in the second quarter as it says in the second quarter, or a quarter of the year on the benches. I hope that at least then we will be clear, so in these proposals we can expect in connection with this 11th chapter on support for agriculture and rural development. I would also remind you, Mr. Minister, that we still don't have whether or not the chapter on the regional structure of the Republic of Croatia is open, and I don't know how long it will wait. This chapter is also interesting to us in Slavonia and Baranja, because Croatia is divided into three regions according to that statistical, statistical division in the NUC region, but it is only a statistical division. So, the division of statistical in which there are those five Slavonian counties in the so-called so-called so-called "Slavon County". The northern region, a Pannonian region, owned by the Carlovack County, Sisak-Moslavina and Bjelovar-Bilogorska. Now imagine that region from me to tell Delnica to Ilock. A very hot region with a total collapse in the fiscal capacities of all these counties, so to put it this way, the worst region in many indicators, unemployment, gross social product, etc. So this chapter is still not on the benches of the Croatian Parliament. There are no legislative measures, or we won't discuss it on, and I don't know when we'll discuss it, when it'll raise a question. So it is clear that as a club of the HDSSB, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, they can welcome the agenda of these legislative measures of the Croatian Parliament as measures that are being put in place, which the Government and your ministry held in negotiations and talks with the European Union, delivered on the benches of parliamentary representatives, but I must say that we are still going to discuss this chapter on agriculture and rural development, and that we do not actually know the starting points or platform of the Republic of Croatia in negotiations with the European Union. On this side, we express certain dissatisfaction and also dissatisfaction with the fact that the chapter on the regional structure of the Republic of Croatia is still not seen on the assembly benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48967	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48968	Thank you very much, Vice President. So right at the beginning I have to say that this list of laws that need to be passed is short and that it mostly contains changes and additions to the law. Why is it short? Because there are a lot of European laws, so-called. brought in quickly, even in secret and when they were not good then they were repaired. Take, for example. A law on insurance that has been changed four times in this House for the last few years. It has changed the law four times every time under the same reasoning, under the same pretext that it is about bringing Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis. Let us take the Capital Market Act, which has also changed, and for which we do not know what legal and other consequences will produce. Let us take a whole series of laws that are changing without Croatian citizens knowing how it will work on them. But not only that, we are quick to prescribe laws, and you are slow, gentlemen of the government, in the protection of the interests of Croatian citizens and in the protection of the interest of the economy. Why? The laws are passed quickly. This list, which is also in support of this, but it is weakly applied and slowly applies what the European Commission has prescribed only a year and a half ago. The European Commission has given a plan to save the European economy, which contains key measures. Croatia has done almost nothing of this European practice. While other European countries have reduced VAT on certain products to protect their citizens, in order to boost their purchasing power, Croatia has raised the VAT from 22% to 23% and is now speculating that VAT will be even higher. We do not want Croatia to enter the EU on its knees, although it is certain that some are interested. But the interest in entering Croatia on its knees is not the interest of Croatian citizens and cannot be of interest to the Croatian economy. Let's just take the liquidity, the payment deadlines the EU has reduced from 60 to 30 days. In Croatia, this indifference has been galloping in the last 18 months. 80,000 people in Croatia work in insolvency companies and do not receive salaries. Is that European practice? It's not. Is the European practice of raising taxes at a time when Europe lowers taxes and encourages income? It is also not a European practice. Is European practice a state aid system? Is it a European practice that in horizontal support for employment, 80 % of all support in Europe, Croatia makes up about 20% and support for employment in Croatia over half of all support is horizontal at 0.19% of GDP level. And it's not below the EU average, it's below the average of transition countries. No wonder we have more than 310 thousand unemployed in Croatia at the moment. Is European harmonisation, and there's a lot of law in play. The Law on Amendments to the Law, this under No. 1st, under no. 3. under No. 7. Is European harmonisation of these laws on the basis of analysis of the work of public enterprises? Is European harmonisation on the basis of an indivisibility analysis? We sent out yesterday and discussed here two things that should have been done out of mere decency, which is to analyse the work of public enterprises, and there is nothing controversial about it, on the basis of the best practices of the EU, it has been rejected. We tried here yesterday to open a debate on how to resolve the way inequitableness in the Croatian economy, and it was also rejected. But these aren't things that this government needs to be afraid of. These are the things that this government needs to deal with. In the last two years, there has been no interest in dealing with these problems. Even the crisis has been denied for a while as if it would not come, as if it would bypass us. While the whole of Europe was preparing for the crisis, we denied it. Is that European practice? It's definitely something we can't agree on. What I am sending here and as a message is that the way in which the European Directive is applied, in which the European law applies, is exactly the opposite of what the EU is doing. We are quick to prescribe laws, slow to implement, to protect Croatian citizens, to protect the Croatian economy, and I would not want us to enter the EU, to enter on our knees, although it is certainly the interest of some. But it certainly cannot be and is not of the interest of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48969	And you, by my assessment, have also moved to the discussion of possible laws, but this is just about the plan, about the draft legislative plan, not about the content of these possible future laws and not about possible... Well, I'm not, I'm just, I wasn't warning anyone. I was just warning. [[(Speakers speaking out loud) You don't understand.]] I may have been a little overly interpreting the Rules of Procedure, a little too wide. I'm probably not really this liberal. Correction of the quote by Mrs. Bozica Šolić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Bernardic in his debate, he said that we are constantly changing laws, we are not bringing anything new, and we are doing it all in advance. That's not true, colleague Bernardic. So all European countries are changing the laws, and surely the European Commission is taking care and must comply with the European Commission. That is true, but you must know, colleague Bernardić, that only the Holy Scriptures do not change, everything else changes and everything else is eventually brought and coordinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48971	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, now I'm not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48972	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament Mrs. Šolic has been injured by an article. 209th and 210th. Rules of Procedure. From what she was correcting, I didn't say a word, not a phone book, not a single verb, not a single ally of what she was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48973	No spelling character has been given. The answer to that question is whether the Rules of Procedure have been injured, the answer in terms of the solution under a, says, if that is not the case, then no injured Rules of Procedure. Sub b, if that's the case, then it is. And Madam Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48974	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. So first of all, I would like to commend this legislative plan and, in fact, all the activities that have been done so far at the accession of Croatia to the EU. I must say that this is optimistic because it is evident from the list of legal regulations that we have brought an end to our work of harmonising legislation, Croatian legislation with the European Union. I must say that I was particularly proud as a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Croatian and European Parliament when we had the opportunity to listen to European Parliamentarians who really expressed hope and support for Croatia's completion of negotiations this year and to become a very nearly full member of the European Union. I know that I may be in danger of the Vice President of the Parliament and of me making an observation because I am still going to get into the matter of these laws that have been proposed today. I think it's a good thing that we're talking this way because it's good that the laws before they come into the parliamentary procedure to go through a wider public debate. When we talk about laws that are related to Croatia's approach to the European Union, they generally go by emergency procedure and sometimes we fail to deal with them eventually, and then there are some changes and additions, which I don't think is tragic because if something not well done is seen, I think it should be fixed. Of course, as a representative of the Croatian Peasant Party, I am most interested in, in this review of 12 laws, the Agricultural Support Act, as I am generally interested in how we will negotiate and end this chapter and whether we will be able to do something better in this segment, something more for the Croatian Village and for Croatian Agriculture. The fact is that the budget for agriculture when we speak of Croatia, of course, is growing year by year, it has just paid 170 million kunas for wheat deposits will be paid 150 million kunas for capital investments. Milk premiums for the 11th and 12th month have been paid, capital investment requirements are processed, which can be said to have been met with 7000 demands. However, what becomes optimism is the minister's announcement that all the requirements that have been received and that have regular documentation that they will be paid off with that dynamic that the agricultural budget will be filled. I believe that at this point, the primary task is to provide money for the spring sowing but also to prepare for the withdrawal of funds provided through the European Union’s financial envelope for direct payments of EUR 373 million and EUR 352 million for rural development. In order to make use of these funds at all, it was necessary to establish a paying agency because Europe normally requires us to be transparent of this process and to control how we pay for the support, and at this point it is also important to start implementing the Law on Agricultural Land which unfortunately experiences various obstructions by local leaders, but from some political options which are obviously of no interest for a Croatian farmer to enter into the possession of agricultural land and thus ensure a normal existence because without agricultural land there is no development of agriculture. I must also say that, above all, it is important to invite those agricultural producers who are registered in the register to enter their agricultural land in... because, upon entering the European Union, how many announcements have come to me, the incentives will be paid per hectare, according to some calculation of 325 euros per hectare. However, I have to talk about some of the announcements that I have heard in public these last days, but I hope that they are at the level of media speculation that they are not responding to the truth, because if they are really going to change the system of support in agriculture, I think it requires dialogue between all of us here and dialogue with the members of the agricultural chamber, but also with representatives of peasant associations and family economies. Personally, I think the Support Act should be amended in that section relating to entering the VAT system. The current law is quite strict and rigorous and it actually imposes on farmers who receive 12 thousand kunas of direct support, which we must say is a small amount must enter the VAT system and will cost them the costs of accounting and bookkeeping more than those of these direct support. Therefore, the proposal I discussed with the minister and the minister indicated that it would accept this is that the amount of direct support that will be made available to farmers to enter the VAT system is increased to 24,000 and that we will actually ensure that all our family economies function normally and normal existence. Early Croatian agriculture cancer is the import of agricultural products. I am aware that we have signed various international agreements that oblige us to ensure freedom of trade. However, I must also say that I am both disappointed and unhappy when I see that large importers of agricultural products, large trade chains eat 70% of the support in agriculture, and that we are in a situation today, I repeat that I do not know if the minister said it, I read it in the paper, that it is announcing a reduction of support for family economies. For me as a member of the HSS and as a child from the village, it is unacceptable. I suggest the minister, and I have written it to him, to abolish the support of the importers of agricultural products, because if the money is missing, I think it is insane to encourage those who import the bulls, who import the pig, who import the agricultural products that are now on the market that our farmer produces, which our farmer has no one to sell and I think it would be bad to break the new aid law across the back of the Croatian peasant. I therefore advocate that large trade chains, large importers of agricultural products are withdrawn and these incentives are given to rural family economies. In this way I think the wolf will be full and the goat will be satisfied and the farmers will be satisfied and those who import and destroy Croatian agriculture will come to their senses. I must say that the trend in the European Union is quite different. According to data found by the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union, they plan to increase support for agriculture through the European Development Fund and new financial resources. Therefore, it seems logical at the moment when Croatia enters the European Union and changes its legislation, that we also apply these good trends. Especially since the World Bank's latest research shows that investment in local agriculture is now the most worthwhile one. TO invest in agriculture is paid more than any branch of the economy because agricultural growth reduces poverty by half. Therefore, here I call on all of you who are the most responsible for the conduct of negotiations, for the accession of Croatia to the European Union, to take these arguments seriously, to respect them through the proposal for a law that will come to the Croatian Parliament and to pass laws that will benefit Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48975	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48976	My colleague Petir, here you have said that the amendments and additions of the Agricultural Support System Act that are being coordinated will be broken across the back of Croatian peasants. It's true. It will break over the back of Croatian peasants, that is correct and you will vote for it. It's true. Why? So you mentioned that the support system should be applied in depth because it is a alignment with the European Union. That's also true. No longer the price of milk protection, no more the price of wheat, all of it will hit the Croatian peasant, and we are opening a dialogue here. It takes time to spend, takes time for Croatian peasants to prepare, and there is no time. In three years, it could hit us. We could join the European Union, which is good. However, if you start changing things in agriculture today, the result will not come in two years ago. There's no time to open a dialogue about it. What is the problem is that the Croatian peasants and you who were in the coalition together with HDZ did not prepare for all the things that await him in the European Union. He, along with the citizens and the economy, is the first Croatian peasant to enter the European Union on his knees.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48977	Thank you. Replication response, Mrs. Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48978	My colleague Bernardić, I really don't know if you have a magic ball or if you're psychic or if you're hanging out with people who read tarot and who I'd rather end when I see them on TV. But how do you know what I'm going to vote for and what I'm going to support? It's like sitting on your ears when I was talking a little while ago. I warned that dialogue should be opened in time so that the new Support Act would not break over the back of Croatian peasants. I didn't say what the media says is true. I said I hope that wasn't true, and I made a concrete proposal. If there is indeed a lack of financial resources we have provided them in the budget and they are standing today, if for some reason there is no financial resources to support, my proposal is clear. Let us put an end to the support of the importers of agricultural products that destroy Croatian peasants and Croatian agriculture and give that money to the peasant. The second thing I said, so the European Union didn't give us certain postulates that we have to take over and stick to them as a drunk float. We're in negotiations. Negotiations mean sitting down, talking, facing the other side with arguments and doing what you think is best for your citizen, or here we're talking about our farmer or farmer. If the European Union is changing its support system today and has not agreed on a common European policy, there are similar problems that we feel the same way about our skin today, then there is room for conversation. It is not true that we cannot protect what we consider to be our basic production and it is not true that we cannot protect the dairy. And in negotiations, we can choose a few areas where we will keep those direct payments. I warned against protecting those who import. Because forgive the imported June and imported pig is not a Croatian product nor will it ever be. And I oppose stimulating importers, and I advocate that a Croatian peasant who guards the Croatian village is stimulated because he lives in the Croatian village, processes the country and produces food.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48979	Thank you. Final review, Foreign Minister and European Integration Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48980	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I thank all those who participated in the debate. I think it was very positive, very constructive and once again confirmed that there is one broad consensus when it comes to the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. This is extremely important because it is about achieving the most important foreign-political goal, but also things that will directly reflect our internal life, the development of the Croatian society of all segments of Croatian society. It concerns all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and it is extremely important that we preserve this consensus in these final months of negotiations and future membership in the European Union. I am also pleased that it has been observed that very few laws remain to be harmonised, there are only 12 others it is possible that some MPs have noticed that there will be another law, but there is this possible difference because some 3 chapters have not yet been opened and predictions have been made that could be the laws that will be necessary for the closure criteria, so that some minor deviations are possible. I also agree with those who have said that once we adopt the laws, their application is extremely important. In fact, according to this application, it will evaluate how far Croatia has gone and whether it is fully prepared for full membership. I believe we will have enough strength and enough political courage to apply everything we have adopted here in the legislative form in our daily lives. It was also mentioned that every year we will adopt and harmonise Croatian legislation with EU legislation. That's one news. So far, we have been harmonising legislation for the completion of the negotiations, and now we are harmonising legislation because we are and we will soon be a full member. Since the legislative and legal gains of the European Union are changing, it is logical and normal for Croatia, as a member of its legislation, to coordinate with this. Finally, I would like to take a brief look at what MP Stazic said. I'm sorry he's not here. He announced that he would visit the embassies of foreign countries here in Zagreb and sue Croatia over some of the obstacles that are being fought here in the Croatian Parliament over the Law on Croatian Radio Television. I don't think there's any need for this to be evidence of a subjective mentality that isn't suitable for anyone, and at least one representative in the Croatian Parliament. Croatia today is a NATO member state very nearly a member state of the European Union, as such respected and valued. Of course we will coordinate legislation but we will fight political battles here in the Croatian Parliament between Croatian political parties. And there's really no need for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48981	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48982	We move on to the Proposal for a legislative plan for the conclusion of negotiations on full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the draft legislative action plan to conclude negotiations on the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal for a legislative plan has been adopted by most of the vote by 110 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48983	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 511 The bill promoter is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on legislation, European integration, internal policy and national security. A representative of the motion state secretary at the interior ministry, Ivica Buconjic, will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48984	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the council. You have before you a proposal to amend and supplement the Private Protection Act with the final draft law. There were several reasons why it went into the process of amending and supplementing this law. One of the main reasons is to comply with the acquis of the European Union and to adopt certain criteria set out in Chapter 4. – Freedom of movement of persons, services and capital. In addition, harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union has been carried out with this bill and with certain changes from the education system, degrees of professional training and the names of degrees of school and professional training, and we have also sought to repair and repair the parts of the laws for which we have observed that or may not offer a good legal framework for the provision of security services or which have been crystallised as a problem in the performance of the security service. I'm just going to have a few more of these short most important newspapers. As I said, certain academic names are in line with the new system of degrees of school and professional training of academic names. A new category of jobs that can be carried out with firearms was then introduced. This applies primarily to the performance of security jobs in the art of high values and critical infrastructure. The conditions for a responsible person in a private protection company are then laid down and it is prescribed that he must work at least half his working time in a working relationship with that company. It is then prescribed that employers must provide work uniforms to employees in order to impose the same order and to make it clear that the guard or security guard is in service or on duty. It is prescribed that craftsmen who seek to protect their property and employees must engage for that purpose a legal person or craftsman who is authorised to carry out those tasks. Legal persons or craftsmen who are users of the technical protection system shall be responsible for their regularity and not, as so far, for the delivery of the equipment. The lowest professional facility for the security guard's work has been prescribed. In fact, so far it has been a medium professional preparation, we now prescribe that a guard can be a person with a lower professional training or primary school, while for security guards it is prescribed as well as so far the middle one is ready for the shortest period of three years. It is also prescribed which form of knowledge of Croatian language, the Latin letter is necessary for the performance of the security guards and guards. And for the responsible persons in the companies involved in private protection matters, there is an obligation to inform the police in a hasty manner about all the information that points to the committing of a criminal offence. The legal person or craftsman who will perform private protection tasks on the public surface shall be obliged to notify the police by written means by introducing the possibility of performing these tasks on an initiative or at the request of units of local self-government. The legal person and craftsman shall be subject to the possibility of establishing an internal guard service in order to establish the protection of their workers but must then meet the conditions to be met by companies carrying out and registered for the performance of private protection activities. It is proposed to mark the day of the security guard on the 21st of September of St. Matthew and to propose some new criminal provisions sanctioning those offences that have been found to be frequently acting and causing the biggest problems in the performance of the security service. In short, these were the most important newspapers proposed to amend and supplement this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48985	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48986	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The security area in Croatia is still today, unfortunately, an unsettled area of the labour market. On the one hand, no relations within the safety system, or owners of security companies, have been arranged, often during the night, as mushrooms after the rain, so that the dumped prices would be competitive and thus seek their space of action in the field of security. These dumped prices have a significant impact on the price of the work of security guards and guards in these security companies, so they are usually victims of these dumped games by workers and guards themselves. The job of a security guard as well as a guard is usually extremely difficult work. These workers work under all kinds of conditions, any climate and micro-climate conditions harmful to health while the overtime of many is daily. Many employers, the owners of these security companies, who are generally rich in the bribery of security guards and guards, do not provide adequate means of protection for workers, as a rule of damage. But it is a practice in Croatia and other economic activities. Protectors and guards are mostly heads in a bag and salaries are low, usually minimal unless I work overtime with 200, 250, and even about 300 overtime hours worth more. With such wages inadequate protective means, poor working conditions many security guards and guards are forced to be like ragged pigeons on a wire because they have no more significant solution for their existence. In recent years, we have witnessed a number of cases where security guards died in jobs because of the dangers of work, yet no one in Croatia investigates how dangerous and risky their jobs are for health and life, and that they should have the right to a benefit from their work experience. In the end, I would be more pleased that this law speaks a little more about the obligation of employers to invest in technical equipment and professional education of security guards and guards than this law allows for the reduction of professional equipment to carry out such a responsible job. I don't know what we can expect from a guard who's somewhere on a port in some institution, and especially in a culture of dealing with other people when there's enough basic school or lower professional training to do this job, and I'm just saying, by the way, these people are the least paid workforce. That's why I'm not eligible for permission to do the guard's job as a minimum below professionally prepared for the fact that the low price of security services is low and because these people are low-paid, these guards are missing enough guards. Why does the law and regulations in the Republic of Croatia not solve the problem of dumped prices? And that those guards who have a family should also live, be paid more justly for their work so that they will be more interested in this job and there will be no problems like this that we do not have enough guards in Croatia than that we have simply been turned upside down and basically go and raise these rightful owners of these security companies, not protect the interests of workers or guards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48987	Thank you. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48988	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have received the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection and this law is harmonising Croatia's legislation with the legislation of the European Union. The current Private Protection Act was adopted and entered into force in April 2003. Then the 1996 Act on the Protection of Persons and Property ceased to apply. This law was to be changed because of the need for the state itself, but also the profession that needed something more modern and better regulation in the area. It should not be forgotten that we have signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. This incentivization of the agreement has resulted in the need to bring our legal regulations in line with the law of the countries of the European Union. One of the main objections to the Law on the Protection of Persons and Assets of '96. is that he did not allow private protection services to be carried out for non-Croatian citizens. Under the Law on Private Protection of 2003, foreign nationals may, with certain conditions laid down in the law, carry out security tasks and set up companies. During the last five six years, there has been a rapid development of security activities resulting in a higher number of security entities authorised to carry out private protection activities. So now 256 companies and 114 crafts of technical protection in the Republic of Croatia operate in this area. Since its entry into force, the Private Protection Act has been shown to date in practice that certain issues in the field of protection are not fully regulated. Now, in the area of private protection, there are a number of professionally trained security guards and guards missing, which is because of the low cost of security services, which is because of the low wage, but also because of what counterpart Kunst was talking about, the bribery from the owners of these companies, which is why many security guards and guards engage in private affairs. In order to overcome the lack of licensed persons performing private protection tasks, this proposal proposes to amend Article 20 of the applicable law and it is prescribed that the authorisation to carry out security tasks may be issued to a person who has at least the lowest professional equipment acquired by the completion of the programme in accordance with specific rules, taking into account that the work of a security guard is less complex than the work of a security guard. A provision has also been added which does not require the conditions of residence, i.e. the registered residence and knowledge of the Croatian language for the citizens of the European Union and the State of the signatories of the Treaty on European Economic Area. It has also been added to the provision that private protection tasks can also be carried out by citizens of the European Union who are authorised to carry out such tasks. It is also prescribed in this proposal that the education of security guards and guards may be carried out by the MUP, but also by institutions in accordance with the rules on education. It is prescribed that under other conditions a security guard must have completed secondary education for at least three years. Important amendments to the applicable law relating to the insurance and escorting of money, securities and valuables and the purchase of a prescribed type of firearms for those purposes. The proposal also makes it more clear in which cases security guards can carry the prescribed types of short firearms, as well as how to handle the use of firearms. I therefore consider that given the six-year experience in implementing the applicable law, amendments and additions to this proposal of the law offer more modern solutions in line with the principles of the European Union. Also, this law will open up to boost competition, to expand the possibility of work or employment. I think that by adopting this law, it will open up a space for the faster employment of more of our people before we enter the European Union because then we will be obliged to release other companies from the European Union that are more modernly equipped, which are richer in our territory. For all the sake of this, I think we should support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48989	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48990	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Private Protection Act, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 511, Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Emil Tomljanovic. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendment of the MPs. Mr. Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48991	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48992	The amendment to Article 19 has been adopted and has become an integral part of the draft law. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority vote with 107 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48993	The next two points are, I propose a united debate on the proposal as they are in a tight relationship. So we're going to - the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of NATO's Agreement on the dissemination of technical data for defence purposes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 512 and - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Mutual Protection of Imagination relating to Defence and for which patent applications have been submitted, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 513 We can consider that no one is opposed to having a united debate, so we are going to a united debate. The proposer of both laws is the Government. Following an emergency procedure, we agreed to apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. State Secretary at the defence ministry Pierre Simunovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48994	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As during the first morning's debate, it was about the adoption of the legal gains of the European Union here that the process of the gradual adoption of all the legal gains of NATO is at stake. A series of agreements and documents has already been adopted by the Croatian Parliament and by the Croatian Parliament. This is about two concrete documents, meaning the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a NATO Agreement on the Communication of Technical Data for Defence purposes, with the final proposal for a Law and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Mutual Protection of Immunity of the Immunity of Defence and for which patent applications have been submitted, with the final proposal of the Law. Of course, both documents had previously passed the prescribed procedure in the Defence Committee and with the prior opinion of the President of the Republic. In one sense, the first agreement that speaks of the disclosure of technical data for defence purposes. When it comes to communication, it is a mutual exchange, a mutually necessary exchange between military industries and Member States with a view to preserving the integrity of this information that is important for national security. In both cases, it is provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, making these agreements part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The agreement, NATO, on the release of technical data for defence purposes, concerns the disclosure of ownership, technical data between the parties' governments and NATO bodies to assist in defence research, development and production of military equipment and materials. Furthermore, a legal framework for the disclosure of ownership, technical data such as inventions, drawings, technological knowledge and experience, "knowledge of how" and data between NATO Member States and NATO bodies as original governments or bodies that are their owners, then storage and reporting, compensation for the unauthorized disclosure or use of such data, and the development of procedures for the implementation of the agreement itself. In the case of an agreement, NATO agreements for mutual protection of the secrecy of defence-related inventions for which patent applications have been filed. It means protecting the secrecy of the inventions relating to the defence and for which patent applications have been filed. The agreement regulates the protection of the secrecy of inventions for which patent applications have been received according to agreed procedures whenever the Government has determined the secrecy of such inventions. Ladies and gentlemen, in both cases, it means the documents the Republic of Croatia adopts without negotiation. These are documents previously adopted by all Member States and will be accessed by all future members. In this particular case, it is about our, our commitment to the state institutions and corporations that they have, the research institutes that have in their work have information that would concern national security. And mutual exchange with such similar institutions and member states and NATO itself. These concrete agreements are also in the context of our ability to place our industrial and research products on the agenda of the military industry. It is, therefore, a large number of preconditions that allow the full functioning of the Republic of Croatia as members of NATO and ensuring all the necessary elements and extracting all the necessary benefits arising from membership. In this case, on the military-industry plan and on the plan of research and development for defence purposes, which means gradually the Republic of Croatia becomes the beneficiary of all benefits arising from membership. I am taking the opportunity to announce some more in addition to the laws and agreements concerning NATO's legal gains, and these two agreements are part of it. There is another amount of agreement that will gradually come to the adoption of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, here I am... With your permission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48995	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee? The defense committee? I'm opening a debate. HNS representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48996	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected legislators, colleagues and colleagues. So I'll start by saying that the representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support both proposals of the law, and only a few sentences I'll say about protecting the secrecy of the invention. The Republic of Croatia has since, as we know since 1 April 2009, been a full member of NATO. NATO members have provided mutual protection for the secrecy of defence-related inventions for which patent applications have been filed. The problem was specified by an agreement signed in Paris on 21 September 1960, which forms part of NATO's legal gain. In order to continue the international defence cooperation of the Republic of Croatia within NATO, this proposal for a law requires that the aforementioned agreement be confirmed. And as I said at first, the HNS club will support both proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48997	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48998	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By entering NATO and setting up a full member, the Republic of Croatia has also achieved one of the most important foreign and security objectives. The fact itself says enough that the Republic of Croatia is expected to accept and adopt a number of international contracts that form part of NATO's legal gain, including technical agreements that require the implementation of internal legal procedures in the time ahead. NATO member states confirmed the Agreement on Mutual Protection of Secrets for which patent applications were submitted in Paris on 21 September 1960. In order to promote economic cooperation between their governments as regulated by the treaty by maintaining and developing the means of continuous and effective self-help of their individual and collective capacity to resist an armed attack. Considering that the determination of the secrecy related to defence in one of the North Atlantic Contract countries is usually due to a patent application or a ban on patent applications for the same invention in other countries including NATO alliance countries. Considering that the territorial restriction stemming from this prohibition may cause damage to patent applicants and adversely affect economic co-operation between members of the alliance. Considering that mutual assistance makes it desirable to share data on defence-related inventions, and in some cases such communication may be disrupted by this prohibition. If the government of which the ban stems is prepared to approve the application of patents in one or more NATO countries provided that the governments of all countries determine the secrecy of the invention it will not be able to refuse, it will determine secrecy. Furthermore, in view of the view that the Governments of the Contracting Party have confirmed this Agreement, they shall ensure mutual protection and the preservation of classified data which may be exchanged by the Agreement further regulates the issue of waiver of the request for compensation for loss or damage caused by the determination of the secrecy of the invention, and the removal of the safeguard measures at the request of the original Government in the NATO States. In order for the Republic of Croatia to become a party to an agreement on mutual protection of the secrecy of defence-related inventions for which patent applications have been submitted, it is necessary to carry out a procedure to confirm this Agreement, thus fulfilling the internal legal requirements for the application of its provisions in order to ensure mutual protection of the secrecy of the inventions relating to defence between the Republic of Croatia and other NATO members. For all these reasons, I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u48999	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49000	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, dear secretary. Well, these... protection of the secrecy of the inventions for which patent applications have been received, i.e. protection of research, development, production, military equipment and materials, technical data, invention, drawings and technological knowledge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, the Republic of Croatia certainly, the Croatian military industry has something to protect, because we must say that currently in Afghanistan our members are trained with over 70% of the equipment produced, produced by the Croatian industry, and certainly prepared and expanded. Before we entered European, NATO was said to be entering NATO to buy equipment from the wealthy and already then NATO members, and today we can determine that the Croatian soldier has domestic production and that he is wearing means mask, jackets, shirts, winds that are being sewn in us in Čakovec, a ceremonial and working uniform in Varteks, tents and all equipment, tent beds, mattresses, military boots that are produced in Borovo, protective combat vest, ammunition protection and replacement for, means hand shields, radio equipment tanks, safety tanks, ammunition tanks, ammunition carriers, grenade carriers, water containers. What is to praise and say assault rifle, ammunition, which has been using 5-56 ammunition and Croatian self-cres since 2000, the project of rifle production and ammunition enables more than 5 hundred new workers to be employed. We have our own ships for the needs of the Navy, the patrol ships that are being exported to Libya, the Korčula miners... 51. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a new low-level anti-aircraft system... and hand grenade thrower RBG6 two 40 millimetres, and the plan is automatic production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we can look back on and be proud of is certainly a great giant who unfortunately these days and these months because of the great crisis in the whole world is not exactly fully driven by Djuro Djakovic who produced before the war and today can produce means tanks 84,... He was exporting to Kuwait before the war and modernising and still actively modernising 150 tanks for Kuwait M84 and requiring production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the modernization of a M84 tank to be D, to be AB, not to single out a circus of 1 million kuna, a million dollars, and to produce a new two-and-a-half million dollars. It also means we have an armored vehicle that's going to work 8 times 8... in Slavonski Brod. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should be noted that both domestic agriculture and the economy provide the Croatian army on the ground with a whole day-long dry meal produced by our companies such as Podravka, Zvečevo,... , Pliva, Star, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we are going towards simply producing everything for the needs of Croatian soldiers both in the Republic of Croatia and on the ground. And the assumptions are that for the next 10 years, we will plan on a military programme to employ between 5 and 6 thousand workers for this production, not only for the needs of Croatian soldiers in the Republic of Croatia, but for export. And certainly this, these two agreements are commendable because the Croatian economy has something to protect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49001	Thank you. House Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49002	Thank you very much. Just a few sentences, because I think this is a good opportunity to say something about the interests of the Republic of Croatia, which we come to gradually, and the consequences of joining the NATO alliance. When these materials are looked at, then they are so dry and only those who may be involved in the protection of patents or other specific jobs will understand exactly what it is. But I'd just like to say a few words about the political aspects. Croatia has entered the NATO alliance. Croatia entered NATO for its defence and security reasons, which was a lot of words, although I think the public and the citizens who have not had the opportunity to say what they think is still unclear as to what the benefits are, and what are the costs of our entry there. I think this very procedure, these procedures that are now happening where we accept some agreements, but not only agreements, but also standards that apply to NATO alliances, that by accepting those standards, we are also promoting our defence and security structure. What bothers me in all this is the question of whether we are really able, not only to accept these agreements, but also to bring them back to life in our defence and security system. Whether we are only formally, legally introducing these agreements into our legal system or the provisions of these agreements, the rules by which NATO works will bring them back to life in our, in the Republic of Croatia, or in our systems. It'll take a lot of effort to do that. It will take a lot of engagements, those human potentials that we have in the armed forces, in the Ministry of Defence and in all other places that concern these regulations, but should also take into account the objective difficulties that our defence and security system encounters, which are primarily material in nature. Regardless of the fact that the adoption of these laws does not require the provision of additional material resources for the life of these regulations and it is certainly necessary to invest resources because if we do not do so, then this will remain just another of the good regulations that we will partially or less partially apply. There's just an opportunity to point out that we need to be aware that things aren't going to happen on their own. That our entry into NATO alliance and adoption, entering these agreements, will not in itself provide qualitative steps and benefits for those who are innovators or inventors and deal with this area, nor will the exchange of these technical data itself mean anything unless we are constantly invested in this system. Of course, according to the possibilities and agreed, clearly agreed, priorities at the level of the state budget and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49003	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49004	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The political aspect is an extremely important agreement since we are harmonising our legal system with the legal gains of NATO that has long since excluded the military, has grown into a political-military organisation. This topic is very complex because it connects military issues, security issues. Therefore, the pillars on which Europe's security and defence policy with science and technology rests. It is good to regulate our legal area in the way it is arranged in the Member States of NATO. However, this raises a number of issues and concerns. It is primarily not enough to use the potential of our development and research institutions, universities and development institutions, institutes that remain in the Croatian economy. It is good that our State Institute for Intellectual Property has signed a patent cooperation agreement so that the application of our State Intellectual Property Office can also be submitted to the International Office of the World Intellectual Property Organisation. And thus protect the potential patent not only in Croatia but also in the most important economic countries of the world. However, the question is, how many are there really in practice? Namely, it's a very thorny road from the idea to the patent application. At least he had the utmost potential for defence. I'm speaking from the Croatian aspect now. So even when you're reading here's the instructions at the State Institute for Intellectual Property, and there's a question about whether or not patenting is the best choice, or could that idea be otherwise protected? In the Republic of Croatia, much better cooperation should be established between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Science, Technology, Education and Sports. Especially on this segment. NATO also offers scientific programmes such as science, Science for piece - science for peace, but this is insufficiently perceived and insufficiently used by the Republic of Croatia. In practice, Croatian scientists have been published in international journals, especially in those who are referred to, indexed at the base "Current Contents" and thus put their research free of charge on the disposition of the international public and thus many ideas are lost for potential use in the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Defence should develop a more effective mechanism for identifying potentially important research, and in particular the results of such research in Croatia to the scientific academic community and act actively to protect certain ideas. I hope in accordance with these laws that we are now discussing and that we will accept. The second thing is that in the Republic of Croatia, quality infrastructure is still unfortunately not sufficiently arranged. That's what I said in the previous debate. Well, we were one of the last countries in Europe to adopt the Convention on the Meter. How can we expect that with such a weak infrastructure we can even have top research, for example, in nanotechnology? Here, we also discussed the Consumer Protection Plan in which the Ministry of Economy has committed to adopt a regulation on units of measurement in accordance with the new EU directive, and this has not yet been specified. So our top labs, for example for moisture, which have the best measuring capabilities in the world and European frameworks, sort of act illegally because they do not operate in accordance with the applicable regulations in the Republic of Croatia. So that's paradoxical. In the Republic of Croatia, we must spend far more effort on harmonising systems related to the takeover of the remaining international standards that we have committed to accepting 85% at the time of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, and we are not even close to that goal. We need to regulate technical legislation to make their work easier for scientific laboratories, development laboratories. We need to educate scientists and technicians to engage more actively in protecting their research. The Ministry of Science must consider another way to stimulate, advance in scientific knowledge other than publishing in prestigious magazines, as they ditimise researchers to protect and present their work in some other way. Finally, the interaction between the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Defence must be improved to the effectiveness and satisfaction of the entire system in the Republic of Croatia and thus to align with the system and legal property of the North Atlantic Alliance. It is with pleasure to support these laws but also to consider a way to actively involve Croatia's academic scientific community according to the transfer of their knowledge and skills, not only according to the economy but according to the entire Croatian security and defence policy system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49005	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49006	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, given that we have already presented our position in relation to these two draft laws in front of the HNS Club, I would just like to continue with what Mr Franic mentioned with other and different possibilities of using data related to the technical characteristics of certain equipment and materials. This is not just colleagues and fellow military issues, I wanted to point out that this is at the same time a matter of technological development this is also a question and an economic issue, because these data can be used in agreement with these countries from which we will be able to look for such data, we can clearly in cooperation with them some projects may continue together. Which is extremely important and I think it should be interpreted as well. This is not only about the obligation to disable data leaks, which is one unfortunately, a margin that does not grace us in Croatia too much, but certainly you in the Ministry of Defence should, whenever someone takes such technical data warns him of this Agreement, he must get it, it must not happen that the damage ultimately is far greater than what we expect in the system of sharing such information. Therefore, as a scientist, I am otherwise delighted with the fact that as soon as we entered NATO, many of our fellow scientists from different areas have applied for competitions for NATO projects, and many have received them, and we already participate in this intellectual ownership of NATO with our contribution, which is very significant and I think we can praise it. Even to you, Mr. Secretary of State and the suggestion that perhaps you should warn some institutions who are not aware of this possibility, because I have spoken to some colleagues with some scientific institutions, they do not know the possibility, and they are engaged in activities that are very close. It is a broad scientific area for which NATO is interested, of biological weapons, chemical, mechanical, technical and other characteristics of individual materials, weapons, etc. Therefore, it is one area where Croatia may seem to me and should make a much greater contribution than we are now giving, and in the end, our country's reputation in this organization will change significantly in our favour. So let's just make one request to do everything we can to get to that data where we need it, to make it clear that the data is not really being abused, that not the girls, etc., and to use it not only for military purposes but also for technological and economic purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49007	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary at the defence ministry Pierre Simunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49008	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In the first place, I would like to take this opportunity to fully confirm the importance we attach to the implementation in all aspects of such agreements and to take advantage of all the benefits arising from NATO membership. I speak first here on the R & D plan and on the military industry plan in terms of participation in projects that the member states and NATO themselves are conducting. Also mentioned are NATO's "Scientific for Peace" programmes, reminding me that the Republic of Croatia, more specifically a number of research institutes, has participated in many projects for which they received competitions in NATO, and before the Republic of Croatia became a member I remember several important projects on the water supply plan, ensuring critical communication infrastructures, sophisticated models of treatment for post-traumatic disorders. So this was part of it, and it will definitely be more involved and we are definitely more involved in it as a NATO member. On our part, we are making every effort to include Croatia in the scientific research community in all the projects that are being opened in this field. Recently, we have also held a meeting with the Ministry of Defence with NATO experts on a very sophisticated NATO project which was attended by representatives of the Croatian Scientific Research Community who, in the event of our involvement in one or another, can participate in such projects, so that we are definitely fully aware of these agreements that you have before us as an obligation to pay full attention to the implementation of these agreements in all their dimensions, especially in those that benefit the Croatian scientific research community and the Croatian economy... particularly in those aspects when it comes to participating in NATO competitions. Namely, these agreements strengthen our ability to participate in these competitions. I recall that the Ministry of Defence together with the Ministry of Economy has just launched such an initiative that Croatian companies that have the ability to participate in NATO competitions. It is not just the military industry, it is about the needs of NATO supply in various Member States in various aspects of products and services that do not necessarily and exclusively military implications, so one website with all the necessary information was launched in this regard. So we are definitely investing in all needs and efforts as I repeat from NATO membership we benefit as a state through all segments of state and society action. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49009	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on these two final drafts of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49010	Final proposal for a law confirming NATO's Agreement on the notification of technical data for defence purposes, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 512, Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal for a law confirming NATO's Agreement on the dissemination of technical data for defence purposes. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal for a law confirming NATO's agreement was adopted by a majority vote with 109 votes in favour and 1 vote abstention, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49029	For points 17, 18, and 19, no conditions were discussed by the working bodies, nor did the Government give its opinion on 18c and 19c. We are now going to point 20 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, first reading Proposer Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Justice, Labour and Social Partnership, Internal Policy and National Security. The government delivered an opinion. A representative of the motions by Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club submits this bill as much as it wants to stop the drama of Croatian workers. What do we want with these amendments to the Penal Code? We'd like to assume that default is a felony. What we were made up when we were able to act as authorities, so we brought such changes to the National Journal on 11 July 2003. Unfortunately, HDZ did not vote for these changes at the time. After that, the law was abolished. And today we are where we are. What kind of situation are we in? Is Croatia a country of absurdity? We have a situation, the fact that people don't work, and they're getting paid, and tens of thousands of people are already working and not getting paid. So what an absurdity it is, not to work and to receive wages, but to work and to receive wages. And the government pretends like Helen Keller deaf, dumb and blind that her concern isn't. A well-known case of a gentleman who came from Australia, and occasionally something there was working at HDZ well that you took him away, getting paid by HEP, from a state-owned firm. And Mr. Luka Marojica argues that, according to his data and information, 50 more people have those, 50 more Buljubasic has those who do not work there and receive salaries. But HEP is in trouble for people who work in other companies, who work and didn't get paid, they're going to have to pay for an increase in electricity because HEP is in difficulty. People, these are serious things, these are things that Croatia must give an answer about. These are matters of national security, depending on whether we're gonna be or not. The position of workers in Croatia. We Social Democrats here today are going to talk about this drama and we're asking for your consent to do so. Because without it, there are no changes like this. They're an emergency nature. Not only did you not vote for it then. How is the Government’s view of this bill today? The government says changes to the Penal Code in this direction could endanger legal certainty. So whose legal certainty, please? Is it those capitalist barons who, in their opinion, decide whether to pay the worker at all and how much he will pay. Is their legal security, too. There's more to the government's interpretation. That it takes a big theoretical debate on this proposal to pay the worker yes or no big theoretical debate, a dubio, studio discussion. Well, you just can't believe it. It's too much of this government. All the eras from ancient times to this day had their own concept of man and worker and his place and position in it. Each one differed, and the position was never happy, and so the epochs were called. But how to call this system. Some media call it the slave system. But in the slave system, this slave had some clothes, some food, so that he could survive and work at all, and some vault or snooze where he could hide his head from both the heat and the rain. But not today. He doesn't have a salary, he works and he shuts up, but when he comes home, he has to pay all the bills to the state companies of that same country that he doesn't get any protection from, and he has to pay taxes. Well, gentlemen, there's 87% of Catholics in this country, and there's been a lot of papal encyclics about the fact that it's a sin crying out from country to sky. But what difference does it make? Apparently, HDZ gentlemen, and I'm bored to hear about this. In Croatia, therefore, there are nearly 70 thousand people now. I can point out that by 2000 there were as many as 170 thousand people who worked and had no pay. The very announcement that such a law would be passed that we then passed in 2003 and reduced that number to one insignificant and almost acceptable measure. So the international organisation in Zurich also discussed the fate of workers in Croatia a few years ago, and the conclusions of the international organisation in Zurich were such that little is possible in Europe and that the worker is willing to work so hard for such a small salary, for so little rights. Especially the rights were apostrophe. What is the position of this worker today? Work and shut up. He's afraid to ask for his rights in the first place so he doesn't lose a job like that and we don't have weeks to pass any political convention on man's free political rights. So what political rights, what rights can be achieved by a man who has no bread!? Economic rights, economic freedom is the cornerstone of it. So, the Croatian labour force said until yesterday I was scared and scared but these are the people of the government and you ruling who are no longer afraid because they have nothing left to lose. And only a man who has too much or one who has nothing doesn't fear. These are the people who come and don't fear the ruling anymore. They're not even afraid of employers anymore. Those slaves in the companies can, which they can lose. I can only lose chains. These people work mostly in the private sector, in service activities, in crafts, in a trade where they are not unionally organised. Not only do they not get paid, and in case they get paid they don't get what they're supposed to get. They don't get extras, they don't get work, they don't get overtime payments, they work on Sundays, they work on holidays, they get part of the salary on the table, part of the salary gets under the table, and that's how our funds are povertyed, and in the end, the state itself is being povertyed. They don't pay off their contributions. The number was somewhere compared to the blocked companies almost 40% for 2008 and compared to 2008 it is even an alarming 60% to date. But you see, the stock market of cousins, friends, godfathers and nephews is working and as I say the world stock exchanges are failing here, these jobs are still on fire. 150 thousand is a new employee, a whole army in the public sector, those who have sat down on the state budget. From 2005 to today, almost 150 thousand people. At the same time the government comes here and cries over fate that we have an army of low-paid officials. It's inefficient management, but it's still this. Whose voters are these? Everyone knows why they're hiring. So, in those conditions, when in the 21st century we had to talk about a fair salary, there was no pay, and that was a bogeyman who was seriously overpowering Croatia again. A worker should have such a salary that he can support his family, the right to family wages. The worker cannot be treated and must not be treated as a thing, as a slave because work is not only a meeting of needs and needs of life. It works and becomes a man to an ever greater extent. A man without a job, a man without a job but also one who works and doesn't get paid. Are Croatian citizens aware of their rights or subjects? Our media is here two, three days ago talking about exactly what I said earlier that these people won't shut up anymore. For several days, tourist employees of a luxury Dubrovnik hotel have been on the strike, but have not received salaries since November. Of the 310 thousand unemployed, nearly 90,000 receive some fee for the unemployed, but I say the biggest problem in Croatia is the army of people who work and for months does not receive pay. And that number grows from day to day. This will be the reason for the wave of strikes that will flood Croatia these days. In "Olinik", in "TES", the company for the production of electric machines, a two-hour warning strike was held a month ago due to pay default for the month of December. They did not receive salaries for January either, but the debt does not meet the legal requirements for the strike. That's what they say. Many say that their payments are messy and, according to all statistics, if one month is not paid, they are also considered not to be paid as they should be. Workers of Industrial Construction have not received salaries since September and all negotiations have failed. To that extent, the matter has already escalated that even football players are preparing for the strike, and they don't get paid either. Gentlemen, I think this laugh of yours will shut up when neither you nor we get paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49031	Thank you very much. We have a few corrections. First it's Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49032	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Ingrid said that this government has intimidated the workers and is not taking care of the workers. The whole series of measures in the economy has an indirect impact on ensuring that salaries are provided to workers and a whole series of laws guides workers in which they can obtain their rights earned. We need to remember employees and workers, and during the time the SDP led Croatia, school employees, health workers, employees of the Ministry of Interior, police officers and all others. At that time, the SDP was best shown how to deal with workers and employees, and I'm surprised that they are now suddenly awakened by a Catholic consciousness. And yet another correction, there are no 87% of Catholics in Croatia, and more than 90% of our inhabitants have declared themselves Catholic. It's just a question of how many of them live by Catholic norms and principles, and I think some of them in this assembly have forgotten exactly those Catholic norms and laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49033	Thank you. So, the concentration on the correction. Here you go, Mrs. Christmas School.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49034	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a colleague, Anticevic, said there are about 50 actually employees, and these people get paid to be employed, and they're not actually present at the workplace. My colleague Antičević, it is true that there are far more employees who receive salaries and do not appear in the workplace for years. I'll tell you the Zagreb Holding case. Over a hundred people are on the payroll, not coming to work. The freshest case was the Bus Station and the lady who was at the bus station, she received salary from the branch office, and she actually worked for the SDP in the City of Zagreb. And now I ask you whose army is the voters who receive the salary from the citizens of the City of Zagreb, and they are not actually in the workplace, so please look at the little SDP in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49035	So this is a confirmation that there's more to it than thought. ... Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49036	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Šolić, has partially corrected this inaccuracies that refer to an army of voters and it is really inappropriate to talk about who someone will vote for, he was employed one way or another because voting is indeed free will and is carried out secretly and no one can control anyone and there is really no need to speak in this way. On the other hand, I think it's very important here, after such a generous presentation of a colleague to say that these 150 thousand employees you've talked about and that there are certainly people among them who are both in the directorship and in the health profession and in science and in education, and all these people are not some other citizens and other order, but ours and all of them can and are someone's brother and sister, etc. and in no way can they be viewed as one link, one instrument of progress for Croatia and any employment is welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49037	Generally, I'm asking you to concentrate on correcting the quote. That means, I don't know which way I'm repeating it, but without success, of course, so far, to prove I'm correcting that and that quote that's not true, but that's exactly what it is. Then it might look like a correction to an incorrect quote. I'm not saying that about yours, but generally because it's being misused continuously and systematically in many cases correcting an incorrect quote, and in most cases it's a replica. I have no illusion that this reminder of mine will have some positive effects, but I am obliged to warn of this instrument in our Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. We have an announcement. The chairman of the Committee on Economy, Mr Dragan Kovacevic, informs that a session at the Josipa Jelacic hall will be held today at 2.30 p.m.. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49038	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support the adoption of this, amendments and additions to the Penal Code, a very short amendment that would change the existing Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia now for the 11th time. It will not support the adoption of this law not because it believes that failure to pay a worker is something that should not be sanctioned, not because it is not primarily immoral and unfair and certainly deserves a significant and large sanction. It will not support the reason that it was cited in the government's opinion, but indeed the Croatian Penal Code was passed in '97. years as a whole legal text. After that he suffered a series of changes, this would now be 11. Indeed, for a number of reasons of non-consistency of such a law, from the imbalance of sanctions, from overlapping certain descriptions of criminal beings, criminal offences, duplication, it is necessary to approach the creation of a whole new legal text as stated in the Government opinion. The task force was established, it is working on that amendment of the law, and this is what we learned at the Ministry of Justice, he should be in front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the first half of this year as a draft. So that's why we don't now support one partial article. And what we've heard from the promoters here, which is that HDZ doesn't care that workers don't get paid, that he doesn't care about labour rights, I'd just read the text, he stayed on my bench, but I think I'll be able to reproduce him completely, and that's the text of Article 114 of the existing law that is now proposed to be amended, which is in Chapter XI. The offences against freedom and the rights of a person and a citizen, and then under the heading of labour rights violations and other labour rights, in Article 114, reads: "He who deprives or restricts a citizen of the right to work, freedom of work, free choice of calling and employment, the availability of employment and responsibilities to everyone under equal conditions, the right to earn, the right to health or pension insurance by law, certain working time and rest, the right to special protection of certain groups of workers, unemployment rights, birth rights, motherhood and other labour rights established by law, judicial decision or collective agreement will be punished by imprisonment from six months to three years." And therefore, this article of the law certainly covers the incrimination under which workers' wages may go unpaid. So I repeat to the current Penal Code, the current incrimination of Article 114 can be prosecuted by an employer who does not pay the worker's salary. So, that employer who didn't respect labour rights. I do not reject the Priory, nor the HDZ Club, that in the next debate and amendments to the Penal Code, it may be more specific to determine the description of this crime, so perhaps even to talk about defaulting or not returning the workbook. But then we could get into the details of what could hurt the employer's work. Here I think that this proposal for amending and supplementing the Penal Code should be included in those proposals for which the Government, or the RES, has opened up and where it has been for some time gathering all the proposals of all interested people who believe that some incrimination is not well described, is not in accordance with some other regulations or should be improved in some way. And in that sense, in the debate, it will be accepted. I don't know, maybe the promoter could answer where the data on this particular number of people who don't get paid, so we heard that I don't know what year '98. It was in 182000, and in 2000 it was 164, and then it fell rapidly during the coalition rule to 32000, and it was said to be an acceptable number. Not a single number is acceptable to me and HDZ. So it doesn't matter if it doesn't matter if it's any worse. But not even 32000 people who come to work and work every day and don't get paid is an acceptable number, so while a worker is in such a situation, an institutional opportunity should be found to reach his right. So I don't really think that what's been specifically prevented by the Penal Code has led to such a reduction in this number if it's some relevant data from the relevant records. We don't see where your data came from. So, we definitely think that paying a worker's salary is an illegal, immoral and unfair act. The existing article of Penal Code 114 also enables persecution for this behaviour of the employer, and in the next proposal for a whole new Bill on Criminal Procedure there is certainly room for this incrimination to be discussed. You don't need to invite us here who's on which side more for some social rights. Of course, we all wish maximum social rights were at the highest possible cost. Of course we're all aware of that, that it depends on the ability of the budget and the amount of funds. The SDP was also aware when it reduced many social rights in 2003 or in 2001 or 2000, starting with maternity benefits, child benefits, public sector wages. I don't remember any guaranteed minimum wage being found in the economy, etc. etc. And he was probably also led by not malpractice towards these categories of people, but by the possibility of a budget at that time. So, regardless of our wishes, it's a limiting factor. In this case, I repeat, it has nothing to do with the budget. So we certainly believe that wage default is repeated by an unfair, immoral and illegal act, that it should be sanctioned so that under the existing Penal Code it can be incriminate and sanctioned, and the upcoming changes will be time for any improvement or detailing of the description of this crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49039	Thank you. I apologize for making one procedural slip. You should've asked if any of the boards had any before these clubs. Has anyone answered? It's not. If not, then we have one correction by Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49040	.../ The pay phone turned on afterwards./... and said that under the existing law you could incriminate non-payment of wages. If that were the case, we wouldn't be proposing these changes. In fact, both the State's Attorney's Office and the courts have come to the conclusion that they have not been denied the right to pay, but that they seek it in a regular court procedure. So, a workman who hasn't been paid his salary, he hasn't been denied his right, but he doesn't have any money. And that is why it is also incorrect that this criminal act is necessary, i.e. this proposal is precise because it is precisely why it is so precise that this is even unusual for such precision and foreclosure to be found in such a law, i.e. the Penal Code. To that extent, it is precisely specified that such a rude violation and avoidance would be paid by workers we have just incrimited non-payment of wages as a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49041	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49042	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I can think of an anecdote that I don't know whether it's true or not. They say that a man from the Western Balkans, from which of these countries, I don't know, came to Switzerland and that he intended to build a house on the coast of Geneva, in some area or area that was not even intended for construction. And he started doing it, of course for two days or three, I don't know one day how he intended it, he shows up not inspection, not police, but the words come in the hospital car and they take the man to the hospital. They're driving him to a mental hospital because it's unimaginable in Switzerland that someone who would be a normal man would go to build a house on the shore of a lake where it's forbidden. Why do I think of this when I'm talking about this law? Well, because I remember eight years ago when we passed a law that was abolished in 2003, that I thought in a similar way, my God, can you, whether it should be passed in a normal country by a law institute like the one we're looking for right now. It's like a minister who was then in charge of work was very uncomfortable because I don't know that there's any country, I'm talking about modern societies, not slavery, where people work, and they don't get paid. That's not normal. It's not a normal situation, it's a normal situation. He asks Mrs. Lovrin where we got the 192 I mean thousands of people. So based on the findings we got on the blocked companies, the state of '99. which was tragic, just like this today, when indifference was somewhere around 16 billion kuna, it's now as far as I know about 23.24 billion kunas, when no one paid anyone anything and when actually the situation was catastrophic compared to those who were supposed to change it and fix it. Now 10 years later, we are in the same or worse situation again, with options for solving harder than they were then. Now it is no longer possible to reach for money from the outside to pay off internal debts and for these dubiosises to be remedied, as we did with the great victims in 2000 and in those years we had to do. It was the burning point of the failed economy in 2000 when it was just cleared up, when something had just begun to work again, and what had grown a little bit on that stove, and that we now have the situation that we have. 80,000 people are working roughly in Croatia at this time, but they do not receive pay. And you know what I'm going to tell you, the prosthetic tone, a little bit of funky that we started this debate with is rude to the citizens, compared to those 80,000 times 3 or 4 members of their family. Imagine that every morning we dress up, shave, bathe, sit on a tram, go to work, and we know we won't get paid, and here we're messing around about who's more or less guilty and who's more or less made it. Well, we're irresponsible. It's rude how we talk about important things. And you can't say I agree it's immoral, but we won't accept it. So don't take it. You bring the law. What you've been waiting for for seven years. What you've been waiting for for seven years if this isn't good, if this isn't constitutional, if it's not like this or something. But we have a problem with people, we have a problem in this country, really people go to work, they don't get paid. And you know what, anyway it's SDP, HDZ, IDS and whatever party you want, this is... This is an invitation to get serious, to get serious about these important issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, let's not, so we're not here alone because of ourselves, or that we're out there chasing who's better, who's worse, who likes him better. Let's solve the problems. Well, it was HDZ or SDP anyway. We have serious problems in this country. This is becoming a degutant way for me to talk about serious things. I ask you colleagues and colleagues with an apology, because for a little more emotion that I bring into this debate. I ask you to really consider how to protect those who are objectively weaker in the labour market. They're workers. We even knew how to make laws and good laws and good solutions. We found the mechanisms. That's what I'm saying to myself, and I was the Minister of Labour. We found effective mechanisms to protect people who even had a legal right. Well, the goal is to work it out. You will have help as a ruling coalition, you will have help safely from the opposition if we go that way to seek solutions. All that goes in favor of people living better in this country, easier to bear the heavy burden of the crisis we are in will be given support. Copyright, license, it doesn't matter, let's do good. The proposal appeared was about a guarantee fund which measures these measures, the last measures they do not solve, but not bad, so they got support. This will also give you support on issues concerning the protection of workers. They're our citizens, and it has nothing to do with either left or right, or I don't know which option. It's not a secular question, it's a civilization question. Even those who are patriots must know it's their people who are thinking, that's our people, that's our citizens. If we cannot protect them as legislators, if we cannot protect them as a government, who will protect them? They're weaker. That's why this bill that we can ask for formal or such or such objections, but that provision that every one who takes the worker's salary he earns, until he realizes it's a robbery and that it can't be a robbery if someone goes and steals the gum and that's why it fits. How about you steal the worker's salary for three months, and you're not responsible for it, so it's not normal! Well, it shouldn't be an educated man to understand that it isn't, should it be interpreted? It's not a crime, and unfortunately, Mrs. Lovrin said it could be exorcised by court, so please! So let's not do it that way, I realized that there's a possibility in law, in criminal law, we need to find a way that every employer knows if I don't pay for electricity as energy, if I don't pay for the raw materials I used, I can't work. I can't work either, I can't work if I can't pay the worker. The peasants got about tens, twelves, or I don't know what they got, the wages, the only slaves were working without pay. This is slave labor and that's the problem. And I end up asking that we take as seriously as possible not only this debate but the debate on all important issues and that it seems to me that it's simply time for one style of political bickering to get a little annoying. I don't know how most of us here, but I'm sure we can replace the citizens by trying to constructively look for solutions. Let's do it as some individuals do the excess, but let's make it a dominant tone to talk about in this House. I'm sorry if I did the doctor's appointment, and if I may have inappropriately invited you to discuss this bill as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49043	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49044	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, in this impressive, and I would say emotionally demagogue speech, there was a series of inaccuracies, but I can't fix everything. Maybe just this one, to get the data on people who don't get paid from data on the number of workers in blocked companies. It's just not that information, then. It's the wrong information for this story. So, because the whole problem is that employers don't pay workers and companies when they're not blocked, they pull money out of the firm, and workers don't pay their wages. If this were the case, if you got that information from the blocked companies then he wouldn't fall under this proposed incrimination because your proposed incrimination says "no legitimate reason". In that case, their company would be blocked, they wouldn't be able to physically pay off, but that would be a reason as it is today, one of the bankruptcy reasons and then a bankruptcy can be launched in that company. But I'm just saying that this information can't be right then because the number of those workers who don't get paid is far higher.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49045	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49046	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that although the government's views on this draft law came in writing long ago, I expected a change in the government's position. And that today the Prime Minister will come and say that the government is changing its mind and supports the adoption of an amendment to this article of the Penal Code. If the economic, economic and social situations at the time when the government wrote its opinion were such that it gave a negative opinion I expected what happened in the meantime to be sufficiently serious and strong enough for the government to change its mind for once. The proposed amendments to the Penal Code establish as a criminal offence the conduct of employers when they do not pay their wages when workers do not report. It would also be a criminal offence to reduce any conduct, deny the rights of pension, health, social rights, unemployment, pregnancy, childbirth and everything that matter is of working social legislation and collective agreements. When the proposer wrote this law, the figures existed differently, but according to the union data last week, there were 72,000 workers in Croatia who did not receive salaries. It may be part of the blocked companies, but some of those workers work in companies and companies that could even pay their wages, but owners don't want it because they're speculating, blackmailing workers. If the number of 72 thousand women and men working without pay at this time was not sufficient reason for the government to accept this proposal, then I ask whether perhaps the reason enough is that by reviewing the State Inspectorate's report in the number of unreported workers, which was able to control only 8% of businesses and employers annually and there found 4 thousand undeclared workers, according to this mathematics somewhere around 100,000 people in Croatia are working without being registered either pension or health care. It's 100,000 people, women and men who work, who will come into retirement age and not have a job experience and who work black not because it's their choice but the only way to earn something. If that wasn't enough reason for the government to change its position, then I also remind you of this provision if you deny a certain working time and rest so I remind you of all the stupid moves you've made to protect the workers in the store as an argument that they have to work on holidays and Sundays and that they don't have a week's vacation. And then we warned you that sanctioning employers if the worker is deprived of daily, weekly or annual leave must be clearly recorded as a criminal offence in the Penal Code. You tried the Law on Trade, which has failed, and you refuse now and in the Penal Code to establish incrimination as a criminal offence against those who deny vacations. Well, it doesn't matter what the government doesn't understand, what's happening in this crisis situation in Croatia and what keeps refusing to know that the biggest victims are workers. And among those employers who are in objective difficulties but also those who abuse this situation, develop this psychoses of uncertainty, thus blackmailing workers, keeping them faithful and afraid that they will otherwise receive a work book. Now, in the claim that under the existing provisions of Article 114 of the Penal Code, it can be sanctioned, that's not true. And I'll prove it to the state's attorney's office. Mr Bajic sent his report to this Parliament a month ago, saying he had 193 criminal charges under Article 114. He didn't say how much he threw away, how many proceedings he'd initiated, how many judgments there were, and how many convictions they were. Why? Because according to an intensive interpretation of the state's attorneys and chief state attorney, the current Article 114 does not sanction payments by interpreting that the right is not denied but that the employers did not give the workers money. It was not denied the right to vacation but it was not released on vacation. They don't deny the right to a week's vacation. They just tell him Sundays he has to work. So if the state's attorney's office has been interpreting the current article 114 for six years now, who are lumen, wise men in the government who say Bajic, you don't misread Article 114, you don't act under the Penal Code, you have to sanction the payday. And Bajic keeps answering every year, I won't because that's not what the law says. In 2005, colleagues and colleagues, according to the State Attorney's Office Report of the Republic of Croatia, one single prison sentence was imposed in the Republic of Croatia for violations against the worker referred to in Article 114. One single prison sentence. These are the data that you can find from the government's representatives in the books of the state's attorney's office's annual reports, any way you want from 2005 onwards. 51% of the applications that came to the state's attorneys were rejected by them. The next 18% were refuting judgments or court decisions. Part of the verdicts made were measures of caution, fines of letters and figures of 18 fines. With a letter and a number. One prison sentence since 2005. Now let's put aside the exact fact that 72,000 workers are without pay. Let's make 'em 72. Let the right to rest be denied only to two women in the store on Sunday, let them not return the work book to one of the only workers to be employed by another employer, is it not our obligation to establish it as a criminal offence. And I end up with the following, Madam Representatives of the Government, a few days ago on television you had a chance to see a group of 40 women whose employer and employer fled to their homeland in Italy, and locked down the premises of the company and the work books. And you know that without that woman's work book, they can't even go to the stock market, let alone work somewhere else. In Croatia, therefore, it is possible for the employer to lock down offices, lock in the register the records of employees of the work book, and the state will not accept them either at the Employment Service, nor can they find another job because without a check-out that no one has submitted and no workbooks can be hired. And you on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mrs Lovrin can continue to defend the existing provisions formally, at a time I welcome you, on behalf of these 72 thousand workers and workers who do not receive salaries in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49047	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49048	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the assumption that the government refuses to incriminate the law of law violation of the right to a certain working time and rest, the rest I think was controversial. Mr. Lesar again demagogues that I or the Croatian Democratic Community Club are not concerned about the rights of workers. On the contrary, I do not think it is fair to mislead those same workers who have no salary or who are challenged by daily, annual or weekly vacations to mislead that the change in this incrimination is a magic wand that will give them all these rights. I repeat, read, the existing Penal Code, which states in Article 114: “Whoever deprives or restricts a citizen amongsts the law of a certain working time, rest, etc.” so today it writes and let us not lead people astray, which allows the expressions of smart-ass or I don’t know what in the government, that the State's attorney says they are not denied the right to or pay, I don’t know if it’s a right to pay, a solution to pay or to get paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49049	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Dragutin Lesar here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49050	Article 209 has been injured. Mrs. Lovrin's rules of procedure have been incorrectly correcting my claim, I said that the government refuses to accept the amendments to a single prison sentence provision, and as far as the delusion is concerned, Mrs. Lovrin, you are in demagogue error.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49051	In her opinion, she corrected your claim. There is therefore no room for breach of the Rules of Procedure, if, as we have so far, we comment on it so extensively. Now, on behalf of the promoter, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49052	Allow very brief explanations. With this bill, the SDP Club is looking for what we had in 2003, that those who can pay off workers who have not fallen into some financial difficulties because the state has not paid them theirs, so they are so so so they have tens and tens of thousands. We are looking for a SDP club that believes that such behaviour is such a social danger that it must be raised to criminal responsibility. We ask for those who act so irresponsiblely, who make social cases out of people who have earned their bread fairly. It's been debated here, and it's been challenging some kind of social giving. This has nothing to do with social giving. People have their dignity, those who can work and who have opportunities to work and who work and who don't get paid. They don't need any social assistance, but they need the protection of the state to comply with the laws. But apparently for a particular political set, it's not socially dangerous behavior, that the worker worked and didn't get paid. Is it according to existing legislation where the right to incriminate all labour rights which are also penally sanctioned, but which do not experience adequate prosecution, where the State's Attorney's Office stood on the stand and courts, where employers defend themselves, so I did not deny him the salary, the right to pay, so let him sue me. We've had such arguments by the government, go to court for not getting paid. We're looking for people like that to go to jail. Just as the preparations were before the law was passed in 2003, the message itself was that they had drastically reduced the number of people. So there was no law enforcement, there was a reduction in the number of these people. What makes it possible for us to have what colleague Davorko Vidovic said on behalf of the SDP club, why do employers behave like this? Because I can behave. Because the state doesn't care because it doesn't provide protection. The state does not provide protection to the weak, provides protection to the capital. We are daily reshaping our legislation so that capital has a smooth flow, protection. That is what Europe warns us about. Europe is not interested in us protecting our employee, it's our domestic matter. But that's why Mrs. Merkel has to know that our Prime Minister Kosor has protected a German worker. Is it possible there in Germany that a worker works and doesn't get paid? Show him. What would happen to that company? Is that possible in Italy, is that possible in Switzerland? In which country is that possible? They're the people who work, so they're the most pointless scams. So try to get someone to fix something for you at home so you don't pay for it. For working still in the joint. But here it's common, it's common. It has already become our folk treasure, our heritage. People need to break that chain of injustice. Many companies, but beware that this stranger is not particularly conscious and conscious and loves a worker more than our employer. Oh, no. Well, there's no confusion or delusion. How these German not only German but any foreign owners of their company when they come here act the same but very, very similar. Let them behave and try to behave in their home countries. Why are they acting like that? Because I can behave. So, give what my colleague Vidovic would say, let's get serious, give protection, adequate protection, nothing costs this country, cost anything. It costs the state a lack of such a law. Because those who worked tomorrow will come in line for social assistance, so they take bread and perseverance to those who can't work who are physically powerless to work or who are not fortunate to be employed somewhere. Well, it can't be this kind of argument from the government that they need to study whether to treat non-payments. But during that time the worker must eat, his children must eat. So, you don't need any studio consideration. It just takes a little honesty and a little bit of salt in your head to accept this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49053	Thank you. State Secretary Vesna Vučetic, Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49054	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At first, I thought there was no need to address this esteemed House, but what triggered me was the fact that certain things had to be said simply the way they are. And this is the government at no time refusing or believing that at this point the SDP's proposal for amending the Penal Code did not say that the amendment would not be made. It is only said that at this point in time, given the fact that at the stage of making a whole new Penal Code is not the time to go with another ad hoc change that would be 11 in a row and which simply could no longer suffer so many changes, it must go into the new law. So the insinuations that the government will not and will not and cannot recognize the social moment in which they live simply do not respond to the truth. And the fact is that the working group is seriously working on amending the Penal Code and that everyone in this country is, of course, invited to the Ministry of Justice page which is specifically open to all objections and suggestions that such a proposal be made. And I, as a representative of the Government, can say that what the SDP has put forward today, as well as the proposal on the qualification of that crime, which clearly proved not clear enough in relation to the criminal offence that is Article 114. Penalty law provided for. But apparently interpretations are different and different. So in order to specify the interpretation this proposal will be classified and the working group will seriously consider it in further work. Here, I just wanted to say so much, pure truth and some times that works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49055	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Franic. Correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49056	Here I am correcting the incorrect allegation of the Honored State Secretary that the laws do not suffer frequent changes, because here in the first item of the agenda we have just had in planning future legislative activities in the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, examples of one and the same law being amended over a few months two to three times.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49057	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49058	Thank you very much. You see, it's sad actually, it's embarrassing, it's devastating for a country that this kind of topic comes to Parliament's agenda at all because it's embarrassing, it's sad, and it's defeating that in some country there are people who work without getting paid for their work. It is defeating that there are actually slaves in Croatia because only a slave works without pay. And then it is even sadder and even more devastating when such a topic unfortunately has to be found on parliament's agenda that the government refuses a single proposal to punish those who do not pay their salaries. You see, this legislative proposal was sent to the parliamentary procedure on 13 March 2009. It took almost a year for the President of the Parliament to discuss it. I guess it's a non-essential topic, something that's the secondary end of so many other important laws now to discuss that people should be paid for their work, it's obviously not respected. 90% of the government's proposals that come into this House accepts even when we think they're not good we try to fix them with our own debates. When they don't get better until the second reading, we fix them with amendments or at least we try to fix them with amendments, but we accept 90% of them, because they're the ones who are still fixing the situation in society, at least they're trying to do it. The government does not accept this law by not saying you did it wrong or should not do it but rather, we have heard from the Secretary of State now that the Government thinks it should be entered into the Penal Code but is cynically ordering workers to wait. Wait, you're not on the agenda right now. When we consider all this studioly whether it is possible to pay someone who does, so what you have to study, then you will take this into consideration as part of a comprehensive change. It's a message from the government to workers who don't have bread and have earned it. I don't know what amount of cynicism it takes, indifference, complete insensibility that someone who worked and doesn't have the money to buy bread says so now look, I'll consider it when it's your turn, and right now you're not up to it for a year since this was sent to the parliamentary procedure to discuss it at all. To believe that there are elected representatives of citizens in the House who do not want to accept this bill seems incredible, it seems absolutely incredible. Well, those who have elected these HDZ deputies, they too remain without pay. Those citizens are not spared because they voted for HDZ, so they are not spared. And they remain without pay even though they work, and those they choose tell you exactly what we care about because you don't get paid and do it, so as far as we're concerned, we're here in the House, and we've got high wages, and ours won't be paid. That's what those people who have just left the Assembly are telling these same hungry citizens. Well, God's people, it's like it's not enough for 500 citizens of this country to lose their jobs every day. It's like it's not enough. Now you don't want to sanction those who still don't pay their wages to the little number that's left to work. It's like you don't see what's going on. Well, a man on a Slavon ship has to break into a pharmacy to feed his baby so he doesn't starve to death. It's a picture of the state under the rule of this government. And now that the SDP is there to try to change at least a part of it, so not a lot, at least part of it, so at least we threaten the team, so you're going to jail, man, for God's sake, you're going to jail if you don't pay the worker a salary, then you refuse it. So what do you care if that man stays free? You know he cheated on the worker, you know he denied his salary and you unusually care not to punish him. You took him for protection, for he is a thief and a fraud, and for the workers on whom he does not live. You don't care about them. You are ordering them to be patient until the government has considered it comprehensively. Listen, this cynicism is hard to listen to, it's hard to handle because it's just incomprehensible. It's just incomprehensible that one of these little attempts, like this, one little procedure you don't want to accept. It's not just the regulation of legislation and the Penal Code. This is about the survival of these families. It's about their bread, their right to food. Well, that's what you refuse them. It's okay. It's okay. And to say that the reason that you won't protect them is such a practical reason that it's not convenient for the government to adopt such a small amendment now because it would be much more convenient for it to change the whole law. Well, since you don't realize that bread is and that it's between your awkwardness or this very moment for you to have a small change and their right to bread so vast a difference that what is happening today in the House, this moment in this debate and this attitude of the government and this behavior of the HDZ club, is one of the greatest shame that a parliament can experience at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49059	We first have one correction to the incorrect assumption. Mrs. Dear Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49060	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Stazic, said that only in the slave society did the slaves not get paid. It is only partly true or it is partially and incorrect because the slave owner of his slave has minimally fed him not to die of hunger, has minimally trained him not to freeze and has provided him with a roof over his head. And part of our employers don't provide it to their workers, but it still makes them invest to work for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49061	We also have replicas. The first replica is Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49062	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Stazic, more for the public, is the government's excuse to reject a bill that protects the payout of workers offends the worker's logic, insults the Parliament's dignity. After the Parliament had a legislative stampede where we passed 30 laws for one session and after the Penal Code was amended 11 times, to introduce a new standard to the Croatian Parliament to protect workers' rights to receive their salary and to protect that salary by criminal responsibility. That's really outrageous. If there is a general phenomenon in Croatia, and today it is, that 70 thousand workers do it for whom, for a private employer or for a state, and does not receive a salary, then it really does not need to convince the public that such a law is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49063	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49064	You're telling my colleague Leko it's outrageous. It is unheard of, but I can't be surprised anymore after today. I won't be surprised at anything anymore, but I don't think those poor people, if any of them are watching this Parliament transfer, they'll finally know what it's about. That they will finally know what kind of government they have chosen and how that government treats them. 17 times this Penal Code has been changed in things that the government think are far more important, so for example. And cloning. It is far more important for the government whether people will be cloned or whether their fellow citizens will be the same as those who made this government government because they chose it, whether it will be left without bread. After that, there's really no surprise in the place.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49065	Replica, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Before that, it's past 10 minutes at 13:30. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49066	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Stazić, you were talking about slave society and slaves. In fact, Croatian society is a deeply feudal society in which we will not talk about the class, but workers are the last, last steps in this feudal society or the class in this society. And finally, you see, the refusal of Madam Secretary of State or the postponement of the application of this SDP proposal may be somewhat tactful because here you see there are other tools or instruments, which are the Government and Prime Minister's appeals for workers not to be fired, the Government's appeal that banks do not raise interest, etc. You see, they have both an appeal tool or an appeal tool, calls for banks, employers and others to serve for the purpose, instead of using another tool, so a law that can do it as well as you said and regulated it. You also mentioned a Slavon ship and a case of break-in at the pharmacy. In that case, the man took for his child, alienated, as they say, three sets of diapers and three boxes of food for the child. Well, it's not the only case in our unfortunate Slavonian ship, because there's a good part of the staff, I'd say hundreds, maybe thousands of jobs, not getting paid or getting paid for health, pension, etc. It is only when people retire or seek medical care in a medical institution that they finds or finds that they have not been paid a contribution for years to health and pension insurance. It's a mass phenomenon. You also have a company that Goran Maric mentioned yesterday...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49067	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49068	Ban, right, that's what makes it. But what does the Government of the Republic of Croatia do? And now this law says...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49069	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49070	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49071	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49072	Well, we can call it a slave or slave position, whatever we want, feudal, whatever. There's an important fact, an incredible phenomenon that a man works and that someone cheats on him for pay and that's why he doesn't answer. You're saying that the government has its own methods of working, so it's logical that it rejects this bill because the government is mostly led by appeals. The appeal is the means on which the government repairs the status of workers, impossible. We saw how far your appeals got you. We see every day 500 new ones run out of bread, 500 families have nothing to eat, every day 500 more. You know, here's the HDZ coming out again. They say they're coming out because I'm spreading hate speech. The conduct of hate is what the government and this majority are pointing to the unprotected, unprotected, robbed. Because what's different is they don't care about these people, they don't actually hate them, because they won't even discuss them, they won't listen, let alone accept this. And great love for those who robbed you of the same people, deceived you, humiliated you, conquered you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49073	We have another replica of Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49074	A constructive replica. You mentioned Mr. Stazic, I, of course, give you the right, but only as a final instance of course should it pass one court procedure, arrest, so the whole procedure that should then lead to prison. But you know, and that prison actually comes down a lot of times to the fact that these tycoons who didn't pay their workers go, when they go for other things, not because they don't pay their wages,... to prison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then you see them going out with TVs. They didn't work in prison, we kept them in jail and all the time they were, usually in the investigation alone. You know, when you find out, for example, that when a mobster gets arrested, these are the same criminals who don't pay their wages. I'm sorry, when a mobster gets caught, then his private property, not the factory in this case, but the private one, his villa, his wife's villa, his family, etc. This is all sold and given for social purposes or, of course, given in this case, it could be given to workers to pay them. So, any prison investigation, etc. You should sit on their accounts, sit on their villas, on their private. Not to their factories that should continue to serve after the workers, and then at least to pay for at least a part of it. I was going to say in other words, Mr. Stazic, that you were not left enough. It's a real left-handed way of accessing this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49075	Thank you. We have the answer, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49076	My dear colleague, Radin, is that where the government came from with such an explanation and said no matter what we have as a government of what these people end up in prison. Your SDP proposal is no good. We come with another proposal to take all these assets and pay off the workers. No one happier than me, but I haven't heard that from a government official. You rightly call these people criminals, but the government is obviously nice criminals. Because the government doesn't even think about HDZ accepting something like this, they don't think of it. Well, they won't listen to it when it comes to it. They think what they don't hear isn't true. Like a little kid playing hide-and-seek so close his eyes, he thinks if he doesn't see anybody, nobody sees him either. It is the conduct of the parliamentary majority in this topic, fundamental human rights, basic labour law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49077	So here's the morning debate we're going to conclude, or temporarily interrupt, and at 15.00, they're continuing with this agenda point. And it's the first Mr. Representative Boris Sprem, then Nadica Jelash and so on. So, the sequel is at 15.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we will proceed with this agenda item. It's Mr. Representative Boris Shmrem's turn. He's gone. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go. She's gone. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49079	Thank you very much. Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The question arises why in this very form do we propose an amendment to the Penal Code. A man would say it's an emergency. Our Constitution says that everyone has the right to work and that every employee has the right to earn money that can provide their own and their families with a free and decent life. So we, as a legislative body, would have to ensure not only through laws, not only of this right but also of its realisation. And when I say that it might seem like this kind of change means "excess," the question arises so that when someone has a right to do so can't in a normal democratic state realize it. The social state as we declare ourselves and as declared by our Constitution in fact in this segment, the economic segment should mean the coordination or creation of coherent relations between labour and capital and, in that sense, regulate these fair relations between labour and capital. Unfortunately, this is not the situation in Croatia. And when I say that such a situation is not in Croatia, then I will try it with several examples and specify it. The average salary of Croatian workers does not meet the minimum cost of living, but the legendary union basket is more expensive than the income, i.e. the amount of the average salary for the minimum life of the four-member family. In that sense, nothing is done or the government tolerates such a situation and the fact that we introduced the so-called last year. a crisis tax that taxes even the amount below the minimum cost of living, more than 3,000 kuna already pays the crisis tax. And when the government and Parliament act this way, why should employers behave differently. The great competition and demand for a job actually derails wages. On the other hand, economic conditions for business in Croatia are not good. We do not have a real economic policy for a long time, we have not set goals in which we want to develop the Croatian economy. As a result, relationships have been disrupted. And when we talk about non-payment of salaries, we are actually talking about violating the constitutional, economic and human rights of employees in Croatia. It is said that we have defined by the Penal Code that whoever is denying the right to pay is actually a criminal offence. However, in our judicial system, it is very difficult for you to come to terms with your constitution and the law of guaranteed rights. This is also the reason why we have proposed that, with the already existing criminal act, the rights to work, freedom of work, etc. be denied, it is also a criminal offence if, without justifiable reason, no pay is paid to the worker in the prescribed period. It is indeed an extreme situation in normal democratic states that someone with opportunities, an employer who has opportunities, is denying payouts to a worker. We have a situation that the employer will settle everything else, settle his personal needs, but won't pay the worker, treat the salary as a cost, and since he has the choice and the ability to hire workers, hire them for a certain time, pay them badly, and at the end of the season sometimes he doesn't even pay them a salary. And in the end, I would refer not only to this opinion of the government, but also to the explanation given by the secretary of state, but also to the representative of the HDZ Club. It is not moral if workers are not paid, so there is a need to introduce this in a certain way in criminal law, but it takes time for this to be written here by a professional, highly professional approach, it needs a strong scientific theoretical basis. I really don't see any reason why this should be scientific and professional and theoretically questioned so that the worker who did his time would honestly do his job for the job and get paid. And if it takes time, then it takes a little too long. We gave these amendments to the law in the March 13th procedure. With such a reason to reject the law, the government gave its opinion on 2 April 2009, and so far we have no indication of what it is and at what time and when it will happen with the amendments to criminal law. All this reminds me of that story about the man who taught the cargo not to eat, and when he taught it, he died. So does it really take so long for one such small change in the Penal Code to be carried out, and that it is a great protection for those who work to have the right to pay when they have done their part of the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49080	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49081	Thank you very much. My colleague Zgrebec, I came forward for the reason that you have repeated several times that Croatia is neither democratic nor social state in this respect. I fully agree with you that it is certainly not normal in a social democratic state for someone to work without getting paid. But I wanted to show you that it is not a problem when you have so much apostrophe for Croatia. You have neighbouring Slovenia, for example. where especially our people who work there have now had terrible problems, which, let's say, in the EU state that we can say is democratic and that it's social, that it hasn't been paying, that I mean this glass Rogaška Slatina that went into bankruptcy, has not been paying contributions to workers who have worked there for two years. Our people have the most problems here because they just can't achieve their social rights because the fact that they're immigrants, they live here, they work there, and so on, that I'm not getting into the dubious of that problem. I just want to point out that there are certain problems elsewhere, not to mention one Romanian. It's not good, now I don't want them to understand that I want to compare or compare Croatia with these countries, but there are these phenomena. Surely, I agree with you that these phenomena should be eradicated, those who take advantage of workers and abuse them should be severely punished, and they are able to pay their wages, and they are not paid, and they should be punished drastically. And in that part, I will support them in my debate. But I say it is not Croatia, unfortunately, the only one in which there is work, does not pay the wages, and does not pay the contributions as it has been seen in Slovenia now from a recent example.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49082	Miss Zgrebec's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49083	I would like to, I believe, that you too, colleague Kunst, and all of us who sit here and all of Croatia's citizens that Croatia is both social and prosperous and in every sense the state in which everyone would like to live, not just us its inhabitants. And in this case, I don't care about Slovenia or Romania at all. I would like our citizens to be able to exercise their rights, and when someone violates their rights that these rights can be exercised very quickly in court. It's the fluids of civilization and democracy, and if there are such phenomena somewhere, we must not be calm about it, but we must always compare ourselves with those who are better than us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49084	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Boris Kunst's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49085	Honorable President, State Secretary, fellow MPs. It is certain that these proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code are in the position of introducing more order on the labour market and are in the function of protecting workers. And no one can argue with that. Especially the protection of workers from those employers who support work without pay, means that they would simply like workers to work for them without being paid for it. The proposal is that in cases where the employer does not pay the salary and does not report workers to pension and health insurance, it is considered to be a criminal offence for which he could even be held in prison from 6 months to 3 years. Normally, it would precede an investigation. Although even now applicable provisions of the Penal Code in Article. The 114s that have been spoken of here today provide for jail time or fine for those employers who violate the number of workers' rights under the law, but this proposal certainly wants to be extended in the event of non-payment of salaries. It is certain that this proposal would force many employers to decide whether their businesses, their businesses, will go bankrupt or find a way to pay workers their salaries. And it's, in any case, positive for me. Unfortunately, there was a different number here today. So let's say somewhere around 70,000 workers who work today who don't get paid. Which in any case is a large number and it is defeated for Croatia, especially for this small Croatia, but let's remember the time that the figure today is significantly lower than those times when there were 150 thousand. When we talked about the number of 150,000 workers who worked and didn't get paid for it. Respecting the fact presented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that this bill does not support, as far as I could understand, only because the Penal Code has already been amended several times or many times, so that a new Penal Code should be drawn up. And that no word is opposed to this proposal that I personally hold to be good, and if I am ever going to be able to support it, and here I am also asking that the Government's representative takes care that this proposal is taken seriously and accepted, because he certainly cannot harm this category, and especially that category that you were saying today is the most unprotected in the labour market, and these are workers. And that this should be taken into account as far as the new Penal Code is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49086	Thank you. We have a replica. First Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49087	Well, here's Mr. Kunst. You supported practically this bill. It's still just a questionable vote. Now's the chance, and I believe you'll do it. And why the doubt after this debate? I can only add once you've mentioned that situation that it's true it's from our proposal, you see from the explanation that it shows that 170 thousand people were working, and it wasn't getting paid. You will see here under the chronological order itself the announcement that this law will be passed, because it has not entered into force, although it has been published in "The People's Newspaper", has drastically reduced the number of such persons. So they worked with employers who could pay their wages, and they didn't. So people got scared. And the preventive role of the Penal Code has the best role to play. That something in the law was marked as a criminal offence, that a prison sentence was prevented, that the state really meant seriously, and then they really felt this one will that they might happen to go to jail. Because the political climate in which laws are being prepared is also very important, they also bring to the very times in which they apply. This explanation, you do not need to have understanding to explain the government that will bring about those comprehensive changes. These are the comprehensive changes that were made to you in this novel in 2003. The government does, what does the government do? For seven years now, he has been pulling someone out of the supermarket for a particular crime, although he strongly opposed the law in 2003, and after seven years we will come to the same for many incriminations, and this is the most important one, this one is the most urgent one. We can't look at the same incriminations right now, and we can wait and figure out this imbalance that we all agree here that this is the way the law has changed. But in this crime where we have to react urgently, how the government reacts urgently when it comes to taking away the people's money. He's going through an emergency procedure. He's leaving overnight. Well, we can't say that the law, we heard today from the secretary of state, that the law will suffer, so I don't care what the package suffers. But you don't care, they're people who have their families, so tomorrow they work, they don't have any money tomorrow. Children need to be sent to school, they need to be fed, they'll be able to manage, adults can not eat for two or three days, but children need to eat every day. Don't let that help come late, they're not looking for anything but their own. The government does not, there is no difficulty or cost to ensure the application of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49088	Thank you. Mr. Kunst's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49089	You see, colleagues Marinović, you've taken me very well in any case. You understand well where I said that I support this initiative and this proposal which I think is good, but I also said that I respect what the government said that, in principle, a new criminal law should be drawn up, where in no word has it disputed that this proposal is not good or that this initiative is not good or that it should not be respected. I have personal confidence in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I believe that if they feel that they need a new Penal Code after so many changes that have been made to this present, there is no reason not to believe them, I believe that this Penal Code could be here by the end of the year somewhere on our benches where we could talk. So in any case, this initiative of yours will certainly come to full sense. But you were the Minister of Justice, too, at that time, there was a lot, a lot, not to say even more than today people who worked and didn't get paid. It took them, I agree, and then there was room for certain regulations to be passed that such employers were sanctioned in various ways. But here I believe this government will do so on this Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49090	Replica Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49091	You respect what the government has said, you are asking the government to take this proposal seriously. When she's doing new amendments to the law, and until then, these people need money tomorrow, not when the government has mercy on them. They're looking for a reaction today, now in this debate, tomorrow in the vote. These same people today, now, look at this debate and report to portals and comment. I'll read it to you. Answer it to them in your replica. 40 minutes ago. Now I'm looking at the television debate is that the employer doesn't pay the salary, he doesn't want to give out work books and HDZ deputies collectively leave the Parliament. I have one question. Are you insane? That's what the citizens are asking you. 15 minutes ago. Today in the Assembly, what HDZ did equally to that as if they spit in my face and said shut up there, you piece of shit. That's what the citizens tell you. 14 minutes ago. This HDZ is indeed a party to the Croatian destructive community because so far they have only successfully legalised and legalized crime and theft and criminalised the fair and painful work of this people. That's what the citizens tell you, and they're telling you today, and they're asking you today, now, tomorrow at the vote to protect them, not to ask the government, so you're a representative of what you have to ask the government. You ask the government to take this into consideration eventually so that when she eventually decides that comprehensive changes should then maybe even include this in the amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49092	Answer Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49093	A fellow member of the Stazic application is a civilized level used by people in civilised society. And as for your heartwarming statements that you're going here because logically it's not for us here, it's for citizens who are watching, but now they're not watching because television isn't transmitting, we can talk more freely. I would ask you where you were from 2000 to 2003 because right then Croatian workers lacked such a profile of representatives as yourself. If they had a profile like this back then, I think it would be easier for them. Because I'm going to remind you that the wages have just been cut to the workers, that's when the severances to the workers were cut, right then the cancellations to the workers were cut, right then they were thrown out of the first bankruptcy order by the workers. It's all social anomalies that were happening right then, and it wasn't from you at the time. It's strange how suddenly you've become so socially sensitive that here's the heart of many people who look at you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49094	It's Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49095	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code shall be treated as a criminal offence and shall be proposed to incriminate in a clearer way the enforcement of a valid judicial decision to return to work and not to return the work book to the worker's request after the termination of the working relationship. Given that the Ministry of Justice established a working group in the last year to draft a proposal for a Penal Code and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted guidelines, given the considerable number of proposals adopted to amend certain provisions of the Penal Code, and the fact that the existing Law of 1997 has changed 10 times by now, there is certainly a need and necessity to approach the full, professional and extensive amendment of criminal law in order to ensure the creation of a quality legislative proposal, which is foreseen during 2010. Which is why I believe there is no need for partial resolution of certain provisions of the Penal Code in a shorter period of time. For this reason, I do not support the draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49096	Thank you. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49097	Thank you, Mr. President. It is strange today that this debate we have in the House on the left and on the right of this assembly, because it is obvious that we agree on the motions of this law by emergency procedure. So if, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, Mrs Lovrin made it very clear that this situation that we have is an immoral and criminal act, but she added the word but. If a representative of the government says that failure to pay pays is something that both in the government thinks that not by an emergency procedure, unfortunately, but somehow differently in the law is criminalised so that those who dare not pay their wages should be held accountable for it. Now, you said well you don't listen to us anymore and don't watch, but how does an average citizen or not an average citizen who hasn't received or won't get paid today, what can he understand if he listens to us today? We're right when we say that we should sort of sanction that someone because they didn't pay off something that they're obliged to do that and answer harder than they are now. The other side says that it's not okay, but at this point we're not ready to make such changes to the law. Is it because he proposes SDP? Is this some sort of timeline that prevents the government from paying for something that I stress comes down to one single sentence, without justifiable reason. So it all worked out like Mrs. Lovrin said before in that article, and here we only potential one who doesn't pay his salary. Not the right to pay, not the right to pay. If this is a problem to change, then we justify that it violates legal certainty or that it therefore requires a major theoretical debate to bring about this one change or change, then I think that, in any case, it should be recommended today from this speaker or from this Assembly to all workers on 3 May. There's about 2,000 of them who didn't get paid not to be on the strike they're already in, they're not in Rijeka. Let them come here to Mark's square, let me see and all those who did not receive the salary not only of the workers on May 3rd, let them come to Mark's square, to see which of the Croatian police will prevent them from then asking the representative of the Croatian Democratic Community club that he or she explains to them why this law cannot today or tomorrow cannot be passed and changed. The basic task I realized when I saw what the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be. Well, somehow, it seems to me that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should first of all afford or provide security to its citizens in general or any other security. Safety to work, security to get paid, security not to beat them in the street. So the government should ensure that we have some kind of protection or security. Is not accepting this law a small amendment or correction in the text of this law a contribution to that security of citizens? Well, I don't think so. But here's a few hours before the debate on this agenda point, we had a debate about how much we are and how much time we still have to adapt the laws to some European standards, so let's see if we can get there by the end of this year. I agree we've done a lot of things, and we need a lot more to do. Have we in any way adapted this law to this or to the rights that are rights in some countries or in almost all European Union countries? It's obvious we didn't. Now the question is why have we somehow not arranged for the worker in Croatia to feel as safe, as safe as it feels in Germany? Because in the legislation, I suppose, there are no such legal solutions in these European countries. There isn't. For they have no idea that by law they will settle it, for God forbid they pay the laborer that he has earned there. So it doesn't come to mind. But I believe when we enter the Union, then we'll have a lot of problems, so we'll have to sort it out somehow. What while we wait for us to enter the Union, which while we wait for the government to be satisfied and with a great theoretical debate and safeguarding legal certainty to come to the same conclusions or as it has already realized that this is a problem and that it should be sanctioned by law, what by then? Then what do you tell workers who work and don't get paid? To wait, to keep quiet, not to come to Mark's square. Then tell me what? So when you come to the bank, then you have to borrow a flat or I don't know what, then the bank asks you to tell me what you guarantee you'll pay it back. Well, of course, then you take the guarantee that guarantees you or pawn the property if you have to get some money. What's a worker doing here, what's he doing with the employer? How did the employer commit to pay that salary when he worked with that employer? Not at all. And even this attempt to legally protect them and that if nothing else goes to 3, 5 or I don't know how many months or years in prison, it won't make it easier for the worker, so the worker may not have a paid salary immediately for the work he's done. But believe me, this is how it works. It's certainly not going to come to anyone's mind that they don't pay their workers for their work. But this is the small act that it is necessary in some way that, after Mrs Lovrin's confession so far, she spoke on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, at the recognition of Mrs Lovrin, is immoral, criminal. Now, it's a chance that it's immoral and criminal to take one small hand-lifting move when it comes to voting on this law, to show that we are not only in words against immoral and criminal but that one such gesture can take a step towards a better understanding of all those people who work today and not get paid. Neither shall they receive it tomorrow, nor shall any man in this land fall down, nor shall a hair fall from his head. I'm surprised of course here today we've mentioned a lot about a man who unfortunately in the only really difficult circumstances he's done, what? He broke in and stole it so the kid or the kids could either eat or have it. I'm surprised that the rule of law didn't react properly so that the burglar and the thief didn't close because it was a crime. I'm surprised. But look, for that man I say hello and I understand we have compassion, but for so many people who don't get paid today, we don't care. And now we're trying to speak on one side and on the other, which number is exactly 70, 30, 20 grand. That one deserves to be legally decided that he has the right to get paid for the work he's done in the month behind him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49098	Thank you. We have replicas. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49099	You're saying a colleague that HDZ claims because he can't get away from not paying off a deserved salary to a worker is neither moral or legal. But you see, they say there's time. You'd suffer the law. They need studio discussions with a rich lunch and a potion to make arrangements there whether a worker should receive a salary or not. You say these people will come to Mark's square and nothing will stop them and that's true. Because if this can't be, if the payoff pays the worker, if such protection a worker can't have everything falling into the water. You're breaking up with this whole legal system. How do you expect such a worker to respect other rights? The state serves to protect, above all, the weakest, and that is your duty. You're tearing down the entire legal order here. Everything's falling into the water. And these men shall come, and shall rightly come to Mark's Square, and shall not prevent them; neither shall that law of yours concerning the prohibition of assembly in Mark's Square, which is among the first laws when ye came to power, ye have passed this law. I guess you knew what to do with the workers. John Paul II. he said, "A man has the right to rebel against a government that violates his fundamental rights." Didn't you hear that? Have you forgotten that?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49100	Mr. Luke Denon's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49101	Coming to Mark’s square seems to me that this Act of Gathering cannot prevent citizens or workers from coming to ask, I asked them to come and ask us MPs why such a law cannot be passed. It's not a reunion, it's a question. So if one or two thousand comes to a dear God anyway, that's how we can guess about numbers. I think it would be nice if people came here to ask us, or you or us why this law can't be passed. And in any case, a colleague is not the problem with passing that law. Try to do something, I believe that the vast majority tried to make it a private home to give some master something in order to make you black, on white, on any one, so don't pay him one month, so don't pay him another month. Then somebody else will come knocking on your door and you'll, you know what? You'll pay for it sometime. So I think that we should also be guided by that logic that we don't get to have someone knock on your door that you have to pay for it at some time rather than have it regulated and this kind of legal solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49102	Mr. Boris Kunst is also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49103	Well, you see, colleague Denon, you've asked here a few times what workers should do to those who work and don't get paid. I'll answer you what you normally know. Sue. But now there's a problem. The problem is that the judiciary hasn't dealt with work dispute for years while we're at it, there's the whole problem. If the judiciary had settled within six months of a year of such a work dispute, then you wouldn't even need this proposal, you wouldn't have any purpose. Then the worker would sue, he knows that at some point soon he'd solve his problem. Well, here's the problem. We have disputes, labour disputes that have been dragging for ten years, and more. And that's normally one big problem, and normally you have to sue. But you have a case, I can now speak out of my experience where your employee comes in, says he doesn't take the salary. When you tell him and you want to represent him and you give him legal aid in that section, he won't accept it. Why won't he accept it? Because he's aware that if the prosecution opens up the bankruptcy proceedings. If he's suing, he loses his job. And he's just living in some hope that the situation in the company will settle for a while, a month, two, three, five, six, and that's how it goes until I don't know how long. And in principle, there are problems that some people aren't themselves inclined to do exactly this, solving means suing. I would advocate it, and I am in favour as long as I was in the union and I was in a position to define and define the deadlines in which work disputes have to end, that special resolutions for resolving labour disputes in courts should be established and that these social issues should then be resolved much faster. But it was all possible from 2000 to 2003 to say the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49104	Thank you. Mr. Luke Denon's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49105	In 2003, I was the deputy mayor of the Primorje-Gorski County, and then I couldn't really influence things. But here, and this replica of yours somehow seems to me to agree in both. So we agree that it's unnatural, it's unnatural to work without anyone responsible for paying someone for this work, it's not normal. This attempt you said well, I just have a feeling that we both feel the same way, but this by SDP a year ago, not yesterday, this proposal stands a year ago. So for a year someone has had time to see if it takes a big theoretical debate or if there's something to be done, that's the problem. So maybe there were fewer of those people who were damaged at the time. And I agree with you. Yes, working courts, but how long will it take us to set up working courts if for one change, a little change in the law that might currently solve this problem of pay default or at least scare people who dare steal someone else's work and not pay for it, at least scare them when it takes so much time. So, we agree, but right now all we need to do is raise our hands on Friday, and then that's how it goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49106	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić's turn. ... And it was a replica? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't record it. ... Mrs. Anna Lovrin's replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me, then wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49107	Thank you very much. Now, here we go. We proved that it really was a replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since I've been quoted several times, I have to say something. I mean, exactly that I said it was immoral and criminal, if you want unnatural, to someone who does not pay their salary. And I wouldn't say it again, but I have to because it repeats itself on the road so I can explain it again. If I said it was criminal, then that means it's against criminal law. What I repeat is that in the existing Penal Code, this incrimination exists. She explains herself with this proposal. In a situation where the proposer says that the state's attorney's office says that someone who hasn't been paid that he hasn't been disputed the right to pay, because he's entitled to pay because he's got a solution or a pay contract, but he hasn't been paid for it so he hasn't committed a crime. I'd like to see if we have any of the lawyers, if anyone filed a criminal report and that a criminal application has been dropped in that sense. That's the first one. So we don't have the data. Secondly, I don't know if there's a general session of the Supreme Court in which a legal position would be taken that such behaviour in the current KZ is not a criminal offence, so we don't know yet. And then I read the proposal's argument, so I see, the fact that the worker is denied the right to pay the salary, whether after these changes the attorney's office will say that he is not denied the right to pay the salary but is not paid. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, I believe that the worker would also have the right to protection under Article 114, which states other labour rights, and the right to pay is certainly a right to work relations. And there's one more thing I wanted to say about the story you mentioned about someone stealing something to feed the baby, so that's where we worry...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49108	Thank you. It's been a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49109	There was a legal term for such a thing, and that is the purpose of persecution and exaggeration and it is reported in this case. So it's all legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49110	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Denona. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49111	Of course, I did not take the example to condemn it, but to see strictly how at this point you are treating the Croatian Democratic Community, I am not going to say how many people, who have been disproved. You say wait, so the government, you admit it's a problem, you admit it's criminal, you admit it's amoral, and you admit that the government is going to solve it eventually. That's all I'm talking about. I respect your legal knowledge which, as former ministers, when you tell me it exists, they have a right. We have a lot of rights, but we don't realize them. You know, having the right to something, and that doesn't get it, is at this point the meaning of this amendment to this article that it's the right that I have and I get it in a way that scares the one who's right to deny my money that it's going to have to pay me because if it doesn't pay, it's going to end up somewhere else. That's what we're looking for, nothing else, but nothing else. And you're saying that, here's colleague Kunst just said why you're the most reprehensible part of the Croatian people, and these are the workers, he dares not at all when he has the right to find a lawyer and pay with money, sue someone. He's gonna get fired, he's gonna be pissed. That's what Mr. Kunst said. That's what you know. That's what I know. So let's not leave me here in the House of Commons the possibility or so easy to say you have the right, sue me, and you'll get it for people who can't do it that way. And we know I can't do that. Problem... help in this little way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's vote to amend that law so that whoever hasn't paid that salary in the future is treated like a criminal and ended up in some kind of prison somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49112	Thank you. Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. So here's from these discussions today I think we all agree with the fact that denying the right to pay pays is a feeling of the greatest injustice, any business morality, any civil morality, and that's what 70,000 of our citizens feel. However, these same citizens also expect help, expect security from the government, or expect to manage this country. Let us remember who brought the workers into such an unembarkable situation, remember the illusion that total privatisation of social property will automatically turn into a market economy and achieve the maximum well-being of the population. It was a hoax for the people, expensive paid. The result is an increase in unemployment, corruption, uncertainty of borrowing, not prosperity as HDZ announced. That model of privatisation was released from the chain of moral limitations by one of the greatest evils, which is greed, the second of seven deadly sins. Greed gave birth to corruption, corruption of robbery of state property, robbery of state property gave birth to the failure of businesses. Social enterprises were bought by individuals who could not manage. And what our value system is telling us is actually the feeling of workers who remain the bitter taste of injustice in their mouth and remain the feeling of impotence. There's a system in which profit and money dominates. The workers remain a vicious circle. Dear colleagues, consider that we are one of these workers, any one of whom, in Dubrovnik, where the management of unpaid wages companies owes almost 5 million kunas or workers to the "Pucic Palace" or any part of our country. Consider whether you will support the provisions that anyone who takes the wages should be conscious, who takes, who doesn't pay the salary should be aware that it's a robbery and that it's responsible, that it's a crime. Dear colleagues and colleagues, then the citizens would have hope. From those appeals that were mentioned, there's nothing. Let's also remember those messages, they need to be identified by results, not by promises. And one more thing, today it is mentioned that workers in structured countries are safe. However, we are also witnessing that employers who come from such countries to behave anarchically with us because the system allows it. Well, let's compromise that with education, and we'll see that the kids are creating all kinds of scissors until they get their boundaries and fences on. Therefore, we employers work for ourselves as long as they can, and it is up to the Government to put those limits on us, or to protect the workers, which we are with this proposal and we demand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49114	Thank you. We have one replica of Mrs. Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49115	Thank you. My colleagues Tatjana, you put it nicely, and listening to your proposal, you gave me an interesting idea to think, you said to try to put ourselves in that situation, these workers, and I put myself in that situation, and can you put yourself in that situation and imagine that for a month we've been working, we come here to Mark's square, we're staying at sessions, and then the end of the month comes and the beginning of the next month and Hops has no pay. So one month, then another month. I can't imagine that horror, that terror, that sense of hopelessness and helplessness, and I think that if all of us together 150 advocates survived that experience for just two months it doesn't need anything more, I think the armpits would all raise their hands for this bill and support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49116	That's exactly what we're talking to our colleagues about trying to feel what it feels like to then know if they're going to vote for this law or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49117	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Slavko Linic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49118	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The responsibility for fiscal policy and for the situation in the economy lies also with the Government of the Croatian Parliament, and what it turns out to me from today's debate is that simply we in the Croatian Parliament do not want to take responsibility for solving part of the problem. We don't want to. The answer of the majority in the Parliament is what the government said and we are essentially reducing the role of the Croatian Parliament. Let me get this straight. It's an unequivocal fact that if we only take union statistics from over 70,000 people who work and don't get paid. The data that we as responsible for fiscal policy must be concerned, whether it is bigger or smaller but must seek our reaction. At the same time, we have the opinion of the Government which does not dispute the need to act on employers who are not responsible for workers, which is what the Government also believes, we have a one-year-old draft law of opposition MPs. So there was plenty of time to try and figure it out. Last year there weren't 70,000 people who worked and didn't get paid, it was far less, so we see that the trend is negative, it doesn't stop. It's simply going to continue to be bigger, indifference is getting bigger, economics are in trouble. So we, as part of this authority to be responsible for economic policy for fiscal policy, should do something about it. At this point, the basic debate is in the House that one of us does not accept that the government is still waiting because the situation is such that we cannot delay our problem. The parliamentary majority in the Croatian Parliament thinks it should continue to wait, and essentially believes that the move must be withdrawn only by the Croatian government. Do we in the Croatian Parliament realize that we simply destroy any role in Croatian society. WE don't want to change, we're not going to wait for the government for how long I don't know. And that's a fundamental problem. With solutions like this that simply show that we have feelings for the crisis, that we have feelings about how the crisis situations are solved, we do not want to take on that role of parliament. And then we don't have to be surprised when many people think that parliament doesn't have enough power, that parliament doesn't have enough determination, that there's not enough independence. Therefore, there is a difference when we observe office states and parliamentary democracy, parliament must have that power. Do we have enough power to realize that in a crisis we have to do something? That if the government missed it wasn't a tragedy, let's show that we as parliament have that will, we have that power. Non-payment of salaries is not just about jeopardising workers, wage default means not paying contributions to health care, meaning not paying contributions to pensions, meaning a thousand problems in the state budget, that same government and again we owe ourselves again is the question of whether it is domestic or foreign debt and again we simply pile up enormous problems. But be aware that it is the responsibility of all of us to these same debtors. Because simply debtors get into debt problems, interest increases, interest rates on debts to the state aren't simple, they're very high and they're less likely to experience any recovery tomorrow. And that's what essentially with this behavior many entrepreneurs forget that they are in crisis, many entrepreneurs don't realize that they have to take a series of crisis measures to solve their situation. So let us try for once as a Croatian Parliament to understand that we can do something because we estimate that we should do, regardless of what the government is thinking, because the government has nothing against the proposal, it believes that we should. It's the same situation with many companies that can't collect their claims. The payment process lasts from 4 to 5 years. In a crisis situation it's a system breakdown, so something's wrong, something should change. If the government hasn't offered proposals here, let's try to influence us. The figures of 22, 27 billion unpaid bills warn us that there are huge problems with the businessmen and that we have to do something, so we should do something. I would say the ugliest reminder this Parliament has received was Mr Mladen Bajic, who Mladen Bajic said in his report in the last year I began to prosecute organised crime because you in the Parliament finally changed the law. Tomorrow, this same Mladen Bajić will tell us again, I began to process irresponsible directors only when you changed the law because you did not want to change the law. These are messages from institutions dealing with persecution for crimes. It turns out that we are the ones who cause and organised crime and the problems of entrepreneurs because they can't collect their claim, but also the problems of workers because they can't charge or can't secure the payments of their salaries. And we at least here are aware of the pay, find a solution. And ensuring the payout isn't a solution. It's money on the citizens' current account. Payouts, and we're interested in payouts. We're not interested in the right to pay. The right to pay is defined and the Labour Act in that part has criminal responsibility. But payouts don't work. But at the same time that man who didn't get paid we expect him to pay the utility, we expect him to pay the taxes, pay the loans and everything. Therefore, if we take the crisis seriously and know what is waiting for us here, I think we need to make sure that the Croatian Parliament has a role to play and that, in fact, through the adoption of the law, even though the Government has not proposed it, we try to resolve the existing situation. Of course, I can't and can't mention May 3rd. Why? Well, this particular Croatian government has also appointed a president of the administration who has not secured the salary. And it's not the first time, it's not the first time. And when the head of the board spends money on some kind of team, then we take it off. But if he doesn't pay his salary, then there's no solution. People on the street, people unhappy, stop working, calmly first, and then probably on the streets. We can't accept that kind of behavior. So also where we own, where we represent the owner or as the state as the owner, we have the same behavior. Why? Because it's a crisis moment, something needs to be done. Of course, it's always a question of what the shipbuilding policy is, what we're going to do. It's only six months until privatisation. First, the competition, and then, until it's chosen, then the contracts. How do you survive those six months? The board of directors must know, the boards must know, the government must know. But it's unacceptable not to pay the salary. Do we have the right, we, at this point I am talking about the Croatian government to seek the behaviour of private entrepreneurs differently than the directors we have appointed do? Of course it's impossible, immoral. I guess by example, we have to show how we behave. And that's why I think it may be hard for the government to accept it, but it shouldn't be difficult for us in Parliament to accept it. We, too, would have to insist in Parliament on passing such laws, because by doing so, we will also have to force government representatives in a commercial society to solve problems where the worker is working. But then we can ask a private entrepreneur for the same responsibility. I hope that there will be a little different thinking by tomorrow and that we will finally take that responsibility on ourselves in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49119	Thank you. We have two replicas first. That's Mr. Luke Dannon first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49120	Comrade Linic, you have touched in your presentation and something else in this bill, amendments and additions to the law we have not mentioned or spoken of. So, if it doesn't pay off, we've asked whoever doesn't pay their wages to be held accountable or punished. But the salary is not, the salary is paid and the contribution is paid, and the tax paid from the salary is paid to the state. It is according to current laws and by Bajic's thoughts a criminal offence. One who does not pay the state's contributions out of salary, one who does not pay taxes to the state commits a criminal offence and should go to prison under that article of the law that does not have any other interpretations. Yeah, tell me now who went to jail because he didn't pay when, for example, the employee who retired or lost his job or lost his company, so he came to the office or somewhere, so they told him hear about you no one paid anything and you have no right to social services, you have no right to retire because no one paid for it. So, the government that's now trying to say that we understand and we know that's the problem. Yeah, we'll figure it out, but not when you say it, but we'll figure it out when I don't know what to do with any other conditions, and he knows about the problem of not paying for the contribution. But we have seen that anyone who has broken that law has been processed has been closed, but at least he has come to the cover of some newspapers so that we know that the Government cares about those money that needs to come to the budget of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49121	Answer Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49122	I have to say, it's a slightly different legal solution. Non-payment of VAT and excise duties is a criminal offence and the IRS processes, while contributions are slightly different and there are no sanctions. But what we need to say is 11 billion unpaid contributions, taxes, fees to the Croatian state, I do not believe that everything will be processed, although a good part of it will be processed. And that's what's worrying. Of those 11 billion, the good part is what is officially being persecuted by the State's Attorney's Office or the IRS. Therefore, there will be a lot of crimes and that is where I say the Croatian Parliament would have to consider what to do to allow at least those who have the ability to act to pay their dues. Because unfortunately in the part where we're talking about, I'm sorry, about VAT and excise fees, those who aren't responsible for what I think when it comes to pay even if they couldn't pay the pay. There shouldn't be forgiveness because it's their responsibility to the worker. And there's a payout priority from anyone else, even when it can't be charged.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49123	Replica Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49124	Comrade Linić, you have said well before in your debate on the responsibility and role of Parliament and I must say that it is frustrating by little, frustrating the bars of me personally this impotence, that is, the place and role where Parliament is reduced at this age in such a way that even today in this situation where we are all aware we see from both the left and right that just when we propose something and we should propose together and that we have been in many things, and we have seen in recent times and agreed that exactly many things continue from the classical division depending on where the proposal comes from, we do not pass. Yesterday we had one attempt to solve that one chain. Today, we are talking about the settlement of salaries, i.e. the default of salaries. However, yesterday, we had a proposal to address the problem of indivisibility, as a help to the Government to address this problem in this time, particularly generated by public enterprises, i.e. companies or legal persons in the bulk of the state. Today, we have companies that owe huge claims and also have those who would say Farabuts in this situation that use the situation to get rich, or have no sense of the situation. But you also have companies that companies owe and tell me they owe me a public firm this, they owe me a public firm that or a state-owned company. In any case, the worker and everything will revolve around the workers, because getting out of the crisis without the workers won't be. And today, I've just got to protect the category of workers, precisely the attempts of those who are in one rude way used in this situation with irresponsible behaviour in the economy. Therefore, such an attempt is very welcome and I, at least I hope, and I think we should respect it, not that we are waiting for the government to propose it, but Parliament should begin to dictate a little pace in this situation, because we are people chosen by the people and representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49125	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49126	In stable times, in times of quality economic policy, the stronger the role of the Government and the more peaceful work of Parliament may be something and common, and simply then it may be working to improve the quality of the Government's proposals. But at a time of crisis, at a time when we are aware that economic policy is one that neither the government nor we in Parliament nor the businessmen are employed is something that requires both activities and initiatives from all sides. And apparently, the government can't be the only one trying to take action to solve certain crises. We are all in this Croatian Assembly aware of how severe the crisis is, how severe... leaves with employers, but especially with employees or those who have lost their jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course, then initiatives in Parliament and decision-making do not interfere with Parliament's government, but rather try to have an impact on the settlement or reduction of the consequences of the severe crisis. Unfortunately, because of the will of the majority, we do not want to give this role to the Croatian Parliament, which is unfortunately not good and it is the wrong policy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49127	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mrs. Representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I would correct the assumption that the parliamentary majority believes it should wait to incriminate the non-payment of salaries. That's not true. So as it is incorrect that we are afraid to take responsibility precisely because, Parliament is precisely because we are responsible for trying to point out what has already been shown here all day. The parliamentary majority also considers that there is an incrimination if someone deprives or restricts a citizen's right to work in that right to go and pay, so there is no pay, and we have not seen that criminal charges have been dismissed, that a worker has filed a criminal application and that he has been rejected because he has not been injured by that right. And it leads to absurdity that the right to pay out of working relationships is a right to paper, and that because it doesn't say in the law that he needs to pay and give in money, that his right isn't even hurt, I think it's really too much. It would be almost like your right to an annual vacation making a solution to your annual vacation, so you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49129	Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49130	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49131	Let Mr. Representative speak, ladies and gentlemen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49132	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I've been listening very carefully to you for several hours and I'm going to try to recapitulate my understanding and my conclusions from that debate. My colleagues and colleagues, in Croatia at this time we all know we have 310 thousand unemployed. My colleagues and colleagues, in the Republic of Croatia we have 74 thousand citizens working in insolvency companies, see INA data. My colleagues and colleagues, tens of thousands of employees work in companies where owners pay them minimum wage, and then according to the owner's criteria, there's something else in cash. My colleagues and colleagues, tens of thousands of workers work in companies that produce quality goods, place them on the market, and takers of goods, I would call them that, don't pay for it. My colleagues and colleagues, tens of thousands of people in Croatia are working on black. My colleagues and colleagues, thousands of young people at this time are educated for profiles that are not needed by the Croatian economy and will end up at the work desk or in the non-refundable west. My colleagues and colleagues, thousands of jobs in the Republic of Croatia are filled by workers from neighbouring countries because these profiles simply do not exist in the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, hundreds of unemployed people can't get to their workbooks. My colleagues and colleagues, hundreds of workers can therefore not exercise their minimum social rights, and we have heard arguments or clarifications. It has been said that at this point, given the fact that at the stage of making the new Penal Code, this is not the time to go with another ad hoc amendment to that law. The second sentence said by the government did not say that the change would not be made. The third sentence, therefore, is that the government does not want to recognize the social moment we live in, it simply does not correspond to the truth. To this adds colleague Kunst, this bill is headed towards introducing order on the labour market. So colleagues and colleagues, we all agree this is a critical social moment. My colleagues and colleagues, we all agree that there is a need to introduce order on the labour market, but it seems to me that the parliamentary majority is going in the direction that this bill should not be adopted, simply because it is in the process of passing a new criminal law. A rush and a strong argument. My colleagues and colleagues, I would finally say, I hope the vice president won't warn me that for the thousandth time today, I've heard one crazy argument why you didn't do it in 2002, 2003. My colleagues and colleagues, those who were hungry in 2003, do not have to be hungry again in 2010. Or maybe they have to? My colleagues and colleagues, believe me, are hungry for those whom you represent and those whom I represent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49133	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49134	Well, colleague Doric, you've quoted very well both the opinion and the work of the government and some of the debates, I'd just add to Croatia's banks the sale of houses to workers who can't repay loans because they don't get paid. It was not enough to give a positive opinion but to, say, not even put the law on the agenda by an emergency procedure. It's a well-guilty proposal, I expect the government's proposal on an urgent procedure to at least stop the sale of the workers' houses. $11 billion in unpaid taxes and contributions, of which 4.8 billion in pension and health. counterpart Maric said 50 billion unpaid in the last 15 years. And I end up next, if someone doesn't understand the State's Attorney's Office is rejecting any criminal charges for non-payment of salaries because of an existing article. 114 interprets it in a way that it is not denied the right to pay off but only not given money to the worker. Check your reports six years back to the state's attorney's office. Keep an eye on and ask if you don't trust me through the government's representation issue, you'll get that information. Someone asked if anyone was convicted? One sole employer, sentence of prison per article. 114. for a criminal offence in Art. 114. And yet, what else must happen to the lady to intervene in legislative solutions when the employer refuses to give the worker a book, a decision to fire? When you let him get out of the country, he locks down the factory and you pretend that the workers don't exist without rights. You're waiting for them to solve the problem on their own. According to the media, you can watch it on TV if you trust us. For God's sake, do something! You offer better solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49135	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49136	Comrade Lesar, I thank you for your replica. You're just essentially confirming what most of us probably understand, and some will, some won't admit it for these or those reasons. This is a critical moment. This is an extremely difficult moment. And we would have to put all the heads together, every good proposal, no matter who it comes from, immediately implement into practice. And then I'm not even sure how fast and effective it would get out of this difficult situation. If we're still gonna split up, then I don't see a way out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49137	And Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49138	You speak well, my colleague. The Prime Minister keeps saying, "Well, come on, suggest. Don't criticize." And now that we propose and this is something that cries out and everything that needs to be left behind and signed and overnight published, let the printer do that in the morning the workers have this bill. What kind of protection, it's not a magic wand, but a lot of things would get better. And these objections, you see well a colleague, who comes from this side, that we didn't suggest it. So where do you people sit? So, this objection is not only how stupid it is but it's also untrue. Here you are, published in the People's Newspaper, but you didn't vote for it. But why did you vote when you came to power? 7 or 9 times, I don't know exactly that number, the Penal Code was changed in 2004 until today. The first thing that occurred to you was to forbid cloning. Something that can't happen in Croatia because no one can clone a man here, but they can't pay their wages. That's what you're still thinking, but cloning you better in the Penal Code incriminate you as a serious crime. A ban on human cloning, something that can't happen, and what's wrong with the streets doesn't matter to you. There's still time. And you responded well to Mrs. Lovrin who seemed to be falling off Mars. She's trying
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49139	Hey, buddy, pick your words a little bit! You can't replicate your colleague Antičević this way. You can't replicate this way. It's an offensive way,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49140	Don't steal my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49141	I'm not gonna steal your time, I'm warning you to stick to your order and stick to your proper dictionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49142	I'm sticking to the line. ... Therefore, you warn that criminal trial, that the bodies of repression, that the courts do not provide adequate, do not provide protection at all. [[Speech is not enabled.]] Because out of the 180 grand there were, and it didn't, and they're not protected, so I guess someone would be held accountable. Our judiciary isn't that incompetent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49143	It's a replica, a little more than a replica, and stay away from insulting words and tones. And not having someone sit on their ears, that someone's stupid, corrupt and all expensive. That's what it was, you didn't do either, you don't even register how in one enthusiasm and awe you say anything. And a reply to the replica Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49144	My colleague Antičević, whether you've replicated me or not, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49145	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please. He's gone, okay. Who is it now? Or a proposer or a SDP club? Okay, five minutes of debate. How do you know it's you?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49146	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the SDP club, you called the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49147	I did, but I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49148	You're not me?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49150	Well, you don't call me, I was named SDP Club to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49151	I'm not calling you, I'm just calling you, and I'm not calling.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49152	It's good, it's good. Thank you for that, and I would like to thank you all, especially Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, for your discussion. Of course, that most of the debates went after the team, and even from the HDZ club that we saw, we're not going to vote, but he thinks this is just an act of doing so, not paying the worker something that is truly immoral, criminal, illegal. We're looking for a very simple thing. So, that this non-payment of wages is a criminal offence, that we already have sanctioned all rights, disrespecting the rights of employment. Unfortunately, they do not experience adequate criminal sanctions. It would be for the Penal Code a small change, but indeed a major change in such an impertinent and rude behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49153	Again?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49154	That's what I call this employer behavior. It's not an attack on you, don't concentrate a little. I know you all have a little bit this uncomfortable when you won't support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49155	But don't call my employers rude, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49156	I like those who won't pay for the worker who worked. Not that they're rude, but that's the corruption this government needs to sanction, but they refuse. So, you're a dangerous cloning behavior, not a payoff, which is what we're different about. I thought I'd never beg you as a HDZ club. But I'm really asking you on behalf of these 70,000 people who are going to have to go back to work tomorrow who have to get dressed, dress, kids, themselves, who have earned it. Well, it's not from the state budget to go. You people will have to pay more instead of being paid by an employer, because they'll come to you tomorrow as a social case. And the truth is, I'll do it again. Well, this is where my colleague said well when she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, it's not a magic wand to avoid being fooled. Well, no law is a magic wand. But it is certain that it will drastically reduce these alarming problems. It's not some controversial phenomenon that someone doesn't pay for it, it's become a monster. So why would someone please pay you when you don't have to pay. And those who are honest, so they compete unfairly with those who pay, for he has no expense. So when something's wrong, we have to, it's cancer metastasizing further, healthy tissue eating. You have to stop this for various reasons. It's elemental for a man to get what he's earned. And other employers who are legally acting who simply in Croatia can no longer act legally and do business without falling apart because it is tolerated. Well, that doesn't cost you anything. Even some vanity, vanity, what's that for? I think we should talk to the government too, see if he can change his mind. It is also true that the Penal Code does not often need to be changed that a imbalance occurred, because often from 2003 to 2003, the famous novels from time to time realize that you need to amend the Penal Code, so you are pulling out of it as from that bag and now something has changed and something has not happened and there has been a imbalance between certain chapters of criminal offences between certain crimes inside your head. And there's really a general mess. And now it's come to this and it should certainly be commended to the government. But for seven years, we've been waiting for it. But this is something that can't wait. This is something that will not cause any imbalances in the Penal Code, but we will achieve much. It's a small thing, it doesn't cost anything, it brings a lot. One message is law and justice. And that Croatia is not in such a difficult situation, let alone when in this crisis right now the mutators want to get as much as possible to prevent them. And not yet giving them salvus conductus, that's something good, because we're still gonna think about it. That I tell you how effective this bill is, the fact itself speaks. Yes, before we came to that work, there were 182,000 and 300 workers who worked and didn't get paid, not unemployed, but who worked and didn't get paid. The very announcement that the law would be passed has reduced the number to 32,000. So let's do something. These people will come. Don't be responsible if we start happening to Greece. Think about it one more time, I'm asking you on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49157	You see this when Mrs. Anticveić prays so beautifully, the HDZ Club is indeed a historical fact. Although this right and that interest may also be achieved through other instruments, perhaps not just the Penal Code, perhaps some other instrumentaries. How many processes should then be against employers, criminal proceedings. Now you can continue, final review on behalf of the promoter. That was it. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49158	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 303, Proposer: SDP representative's club The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the conclusion that "The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Penal Code is not accepted.". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill, i.e. the proposal to conclude parliamentary working bodies and the Government, was adopted by a majority vote with 76 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 34 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49159	We are going to the next item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, first reading, P.Z. Number 304. The bill promoter is the IDS Representatives Club. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Health and Social Care, Work and Social Partnership. Proposer representative Mr Marin Brkarić will further explain the proposal. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49160	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The IDS Club referred the proposal of this law to the parliamentary procedure on 18 March 2009. It means the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. He's at the hearing today. I will say very briefly, given that the amendments to the law itself are set out in two articles, that it is an amendment to Article 56 of the Law itself, the Law on Social Welfare. It's a short explanation with a collection. The Social Care Act as one of the rights defines a personal disability. The right to a personal disability is for persons whose physical impairment or changes in health status are determined 18 years ago and the right to personal disability is 250% of the basic. I think it's worth saying here that this base is 500 kuna, so the personal disability is about a thousand and 250 kuna a month. What is not realised by persons or persons who are entitled to the disability is determined as the difference between the average income achieved over the previous three months prior to the application. So if a person with disabilities is in a working relationship, she does not exercise that right, or if she makes smaller incomes, then she makes a difference. I will just point out that the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities which ratified this Croatian Assembly on 1 June 2007, where it is defined that persons with disabilities are recognised the right to work on a working legal basis with others, which includes the right to earn a living from their work, freely selected or accepted on the labour market and in a working environment that is open to persons with disabilities. What I would particularly like to emphasise is that the provisions of the Social Care Act which regulate a personal disability are contrary to the provisions of the United Nations Convention mean the rights of persons with disabilities, because the Convention recognises the right to work under the provisions of the Social Care Act, our normal, is lost from the right to a personal disability and personal disability is nevertheless an additional need or means to be achieved by a person with disabilities are the means needed for additional costs that they have in relation to persons without disabilities. The proposed amendments and additions to the Social Care Act suggest that people with disabilities without fear of losing their right to a personal disability when they establish a working relationship or make a personal or disability pension or pension of any other kind, premature, age and do not lose the right to a personal disability. This is defined in Article 1, normal and Article 2. The Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a negative opinion expected on the proposal itself to amend and supplement the Social Care Act, which stresses that a working group was established in January 2009 which is tasked with creating a new Social Care Act. So, the flow is higher, which is why I mentioned that in March 2009, we gave this bill in the procedure of amending and supplementing the Social Care Act, for more than a year, we do not yet have a proposal for a new Social Welfare Act, which is in line with how the proposing also stressed on the Committee on Health and Social Welfare to experience certain reforms that are in the social care system in agreement and with representatives of the associations. I propose that this bill, which is defined here, is an amendment to the Social Care Act for one basic reason, i.e. to be accepted in the first reading for one basic reason, which I think is Article 56. The social care law discriminates against people with disabilities because they lose the right to a disability if they are employed or if they exercise any right to early retirement or other pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49161	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Dorica Nikolic will explain the government's opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49162	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys and MPs, Your Honor, the Proposer. So I won't repeat what it says in the government's opinion. The government does not accept this proposal, we said for what reasons but I would just like to explain what has been going on or since this proposal came to the committees of the assembly or when it entered the procedure. It is true that a working group working on the new Social Care Act has been established. It is also true that we are indeed on 20 January 2009 knowing that social care reform will end the final part of the second component will be, the first component was 30.9.2009 and the other components will be 1.6.2010. So we've been thinking a lot about timing, we've had enough time and we've got enough time not to do anything in vain. So we can't make a law while the social care reform approved by this House, or by the World Bank loan along with the Croatian component, lasted three and a half years and when it is, and the whole welfare system is done in three county pilots. Therefore, it is clear that the results must be the results of this reform and the results of all the analyses that follow from the first and second components. I don't mention the third on purpose because it's an increase in standards in social institutions. So, in the meantime, the working group that was founded precisely for people with disabilities or if you remember the supplement that people with disabilities should get is also I think the working group is still working, it includes all the associations of persons with disabilities that exist in the Republic of Croatia academic community and two ministries, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, too, because we need to establish a unique list of skills and a single body of art if we want to do what Mr. Proposer from the IDS has previously said. We are aware that special personal disability must be changed because today we should not at all mention disability or disability as a concept since the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the UN, whose signature and ratification we must change not only the structure but also the names, since disability as you know it in English does not mean disability or anything that will mention the validity or disability anymore, so assessing whether something is right or not is right, or whether it is valuable or unworthy can be in connection with it. So, we would not only change the way but we would change and actually how people with disabilities will get a possible fee that we have not yet established a decoded name, but you know that in the meantime we didn't only think about what the working group is doing, but we've been thinking because we candidates for the European Union are doing it right before us, or they're going to do it together with us so that we, together with the Austrian Ministry, had two seminars that we've decidedly explained and we've seen how this is done and practically translated and Austrian law, and we're thinking about doing the same thing as the Austrians do, and then there's going to be similar situations that you're actually looking for this proposal, which is that people with disabilities have a certain supplement whether they work or not. However, we also have the same experience and now we have two seminars and there are thirds with Italians who also have the problem, so we are doing it in step with the European Union countries because you have to admit it's one big addition to the budget of any country and each country is seriously approaching it so as not to damage any group of its citizens and in order to achieve what it says in the law. I hope that in a few months before you there will be a new Social Care Act that we will be working with a broad base, so already everyone who has something to say is involved, and two colleges and persons with disabilities, civil society, their associations, civil society and all experts. Therefore, you will have the opportunity then to propose your proposals and work when it is on the parliamentary committees we will accept every suggestion you make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49163	Thank you. The committees? Legislative? Health care and welfare? Work and social partnership? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Right away, the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support this draft law amending and supplementing the law for all of these reasons, as stated by the State Secretary. However, here I feel the need, and as a representative, who may be thinking in a special way about the problem of people with disabilities, I say a few words, and it seems to me that the promoter did not take care when he wrote this proposal to amend and supplement the law. In fact, at this point, the personal disability cannot actually be changed for ethnic reasons. Namely, on behalf of the promoter, the colleague said what a personal disability is, who is exercising the right to a personal disability, and I will only briefly mention that a person who can exercise the right to a personal disability must have serious physical or mental impairment and this damage must occur before 18 years of life. So that's what the Social Care Act said. What exactly does a personal disability determine? It shall be determined as well as a number of other rights under the social care system in accordance with the Regulation on the composition and manner of work of the body of art, which is also referred to by the Social Care Act in its Article 38, and in its Article 38, it has precisely taxed what is necessary, which is the severity of the damage required in order to be entitled to a personal disability. So it says that in order to determine physical or mental damage, it is necessary to meet the criteria to determine the severity of that damage. These criteria are as follows: inability to move independently with orthopaedic aids, so one of the criteria, feeding through the probe, inability to maintain personal hygiene, inability to receive and remember various information, etc. Therefore, according to these criteria, a person who meets these criteria will exercise the right to a personal disability, but also by colleagues and colleagues themselves, you can conclude that such persons who fulfil the right to a personal disability are in no way able to work. When the personal disability was introduced, so when the Social Care Act began to regulate this right, it was then thought of a series of people with disabilities who at that time were left without any income, so without any means to meet the basic needs of life. People who exercise the right to a personal disability, therefore, as I have already said, are not able to simply work, so there is no reason for such persons to exercise the right to a disability or some other kind of pension, except for the right to a family pension. And there it is, on this occasion I must say that both the Resoring Ministry and the Government then, with great support of then Deputy Prime Minister, today Prime Minister Mrs Kosor, there has been a change in the Social Care Act because it has been seen that those persons who exercise the right to a personal disability are indeed in a difficult material situation and that it would be necessary to allow them to inherit a family pension. This has been done, but since these people will certainly never be in a working relationship, there is no simple logic that they can exercise the right to an age or other kind of retirement. If this happens in a case like this, we have in practice and such examples, then the right is lost, so if a person gets a job, then the right to a personal disability is lost. And of course, there are current regulations of logic, given that the solutions that people with disabilities who exercise the right to a personal disability they receive, in their solutions, say they are not capable of working and attracting. Therefore, in order for such persons to simply exercise the right to retire or be able to obtain income from a working relationship while at the same time using the right to a personal disability. I, even let's say, can finally agree with the proposer that it would be good for people with disabilities to have the right to pay, pension and the right to a personal disability. But as the secretary of state has said, the Social Care Act is in preparation, so such a regulation that is very extensive, I don't think it's right to change these small changes for such important and important rights for people with disabilities. Therefore, it is not only the Social Care Act that needs to be changed, but also a series of regulations that regulate this issue. And I have one thing to tell you, that people with disabilities who are employed, most people with disabilities, of course, tend to work and work, and when they get hired, they don't have any more right to a personal disability or any other social welfare rights because they're just happy to be equal with all the other members of society. And it is not true what the colleague said on behalf of the applicant that the provisions of the Social Care Act would be at the moment of discrimination, namely the conventions, as the colleague mentioned, had regulated the right to work and employment, but it had absolutely nothing to do with the exercise of social welfare rights. Work and employment. Work and employment, personal disability is the right of the welfare system and the convention does not interfere with these two systems. The Convention regulates work and employment as a colleague mentioned, and we need to stick to this and strive to enable all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia to work as much as possible and to work harder, and that social care rights are indeed available to those who are not able to work and we already know in advance that they will never be able to work. As I read at the outset these standards that exercise the right to a personal disability really determine what kind of serious disability it must be for a person to exercise his right to a personal disability. At this point I believe that it is already near the end of the formation of a unique body of art. Much has been invested in such a body by the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Now the final part of the job is being done by the Ministry of Labour, Economy and Entrepreneurship. But I have to tell you that this is exactly what disabled associations have insisted on forming a single body of art that will determine what disability is. Today in the Republic of Croatia, we don't really know who the person with the disability is and what it is, except when someone retires because of their professional inability to work, so we can say for these people that their ability, their ability to work is reduced by 50% and that they have such a percentage of their disability. For all other people with disabilities, we have data on how much physical damage they have. And here I am now to show you my solution, you would also see how much I have physical damage, not disability. That's why I'm saying at this point we're very looking forward to people with disabilities and I'm here as a representative and we at the club of the Croatian Democratic Community are finally getting a single body of art. Because when we have it, then it will be far simpler for us to pass the Social Care Act, because then we will no longer have concepts from different systems. The welfare system today speaks of serious physical or mental damage, the pension insurance system speaks of disability or physical damage. So today, we don't know where to put people with disabilities. That's why we're starting some sort of order, that we know ourselves what system we belong to, that this country isn't going to finance the same maybe even thing from several systems, and today we have such cases, that we simply know what order it is and in the welfare system, that people with disabilities know where and in which system they can exercise their rights. So, the Croatian Democratic Community club thinks it would not be good at this point to change the Social Care Act, and as for the exercise of the right to a personal disability. Because we're holding that in the legislative proposal that we're going to be here hopefully we'll almost get here on the table in the most qualitative way possible to solve this, therefore, personal, personal disability institute. And to say that as many people with disabilities as possible can achieve a personal disability and that there is no chasing. So, today you have yet to say here, today you have in some way chasing personal disability, other people's care and helping and all other rights from the welfare system. Once we've arranged these institutes in a better way than it is today, I agree that there's a far, certainly a lot of work and can't be done overnight, then I believe that there won't be any more dissatisfaction, I'll dare say here a person with disabilities because I'm sure that the legislator put this bill on the initiative of some people with disabilities from Istria. However, I believe that they will be satisfied with the final, so the solution in the new Social Care Act will certainly make everyone happier and more satisfied if they work and if they resolve their rights from, earn their income from work, not from benefits, support and various accessories from various systems because it is not a way for people with disabilities to live and exercise their rights. The work is the right of every man, each of us is happy when he works, and so is most people with disabilities, and so let us release the personal disability to those who need to exercise their right. Because I'm sure that's when we'll be able to secure a greater amount of that personal disability. Today, it is €1250 and certainly is not enough to meet the basic needs of life. But one day, when order is introduced into the Institute of Personal Disabilities, and it is in the system of rights and social care at all, I believe that we will be able to secure even greater amounts. And here I am finally going to repeat again from all this that Madam Secretary of State said, and from everything I have said here, the Croatian Democratic Community club simply cannot support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49165	Thank you. HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49166	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike the Club of Representatives and representatives of the HDZ, the HNS Club will support this proposal. If you'd like to do it with a sign of protest. It is clear, however, that unless the HDZ Representatives' Club accepts this initiative, it will not pass. But we don't support in protest that you don't support, but in protest that people with disabilities from this House have been dragging their noses for three years. For three years now, we have been promised the Law on Social Welfare, for three years now it has been announced to us that a roof law will finally be passed that will be regulated on the issue of personal disability benefits, in a fairer way, where existing differences that are insane, unfair, inhumane will be overcome. I spoke of them in this House, mentioning the different ways of gaining disability and the huge differences that arise. Let's remember the blinding allowance debate that was in this House. What were they telling us then from the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare? It's almost there. So in 2007, we were told that in early 2008 a new law would come before the Parliament, 2008 we were told that this would be almost at the latest in early 2009, it was said that by the end of the year the law would be proposed. Today is February 2010 and it is announced that it will be in some future. And then we're surprised when the organisations that gather people with disabilities are openly insolent and when they say it's finally time for some particular interests to be placed on paper and brought before this Assembly, and so is the proposal for an extra for blindness, and so is this proposal that clearly distinguishes two rights that have nothing to do with each other. I can't and I won't accept that the person with the disability that started working has to be happy what he's doing and what he's making any income and that he's automatically giving up his right to a personal disability. That's not correct. The pay is a fee for the work done. Personal disability is the compensation of a completely different type, which recognises additional costs for disabled people, which the rest of us do not have. And not to be fooled, people with disabilities usually have lower wages on average and when they work, but people who aren't. And it is much harder for them to do jobs in many cases, which would be said to have to put forth a lot more effort to achieve perhaps the same results as others. And then to say that those who work are happy and won't even remember to ask a personal disability, that's not correct. We asked for the last guarantee from the Ministry of Health and Social Care to be made clear and loud about when the new disability assessment system will begin, when a new Social Care Act will be proposed and we did not get it. We didn't even get it today. There's always a lot of working groups, a lot of experts, a lot of work to be done. And so for three years. Well, of course, it's not a simple job, when you have an abandoned system that you would dare say lasts for decades, which has been particularly disrupted in the home of the Homeland War by increasing the number of people with disabilities acquired during the Homeland War, and whose social peace has been bought by more disabled people than those with disabilities with the same degree of disability, with the same kind of disability, but who have acquired their disability by birth or in some other circumstances, then of course it's not easy to do that job. But that's why we have the state and we pay. That's why there's the Ministry of Health and Social Care to do the job. And that's why I'm surprised at this sadomasochism of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare that dares to come four times in a row to this House of the High with the same story will be. To the holy nowhere? When? So if we were able to do such huge tasks in front of the state and before this Croatian Assembly in the adaptation of Croatian legislation, that is, adapt to the European acquis, precisely measure, define deadlines, holders, tasks and do a huge part of this lion's work, how is it possible that we are so weighty that we are not able to face this task and do it for three years? Tell me what the problem is. What's the problem, Madam Secretary of State? What are those limits? Are those resources, personnel, knowledge, research? If you're already shouting, or you're throwing out of the bench, then I'm asking you how ashamed you are to receive your salary and come here to the Parliament to say that you have no limits without fulfilling your obligation for three years? Under these circumstances, of course, we support the IDS proposal, and we express to you and your proposal and to this world of niggers the highest degree of protest. On behalf of all persons with disabilities, no matter which party they vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49167	We have a correction, Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a series of incorrect allegations that my colleague made, and I'm going to try to make one right. It is not true that we have been promised for three years that a new law will be passed. It's been said to be a new law, not three years ago. However, if you wanted to help pass a new law, you should have wondered why it had not already been made. And I'll just tell you what the reason is. When it comes to people with disabilities, do you know that the very people with disabilities alone, I have to say here, have failed to agree on the system, or the evaluation, about the score, so I say the percentage of disability and all other ways of terminology, and further to get it into the law. So that's one reason, and it's not true that it's been promising for three years. It was due by the end of 2009, but it was said to last a little longer. So don't say it's three years, when it's really not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49169	Thank you. We have a correction, Mrs. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49170	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's what I'm going to do to correct Mr. Richembergh's incorrect quote that says, "People with disabilities have been dragging their noses for three years now." That's incorrect, Mr. Representative. This is not precisely why the new Social Care Act wants to achieve a clearer and more specific definition, but all the rights of the Social Care Act with special sensitivity to people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49171	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49172	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. The right to a personal disability has a severe physical or mental impairment of a person with severe permanent health changes if such damage or illness occurred 18 years ago. Given the severity of the damage to the health of persons who exercise the right to a personal disability, the assumption is that very few such persons are capable of working at all. In this sense, we believe that the proposed amendments to the law should be supported because this would stimulate people with disabilities who could work and who are capable of working. In fact, physical or mental damage requires increased efforts in everyday life, which certainly includes additional material costs, and personal disability is one of the social rights that contributes to the economic and social security of disabled people. Because of such access to persons with disabilities, the right to a personal disability should not be tied to a property censorship. We from the SDP club welcome these amendments and additions to the law. This is one illogical thing that finally corrects itself. The right to a personal disability is a matter of persons based on the Commission's skills at the Centre for Social Care where the degree of their damage is determined and whether the damage occurred 18 years ago. So far, the legislator has also imposed material censorship in this form, i.e. when a person with disabilities is employed, he would lose his right, contrary to the Convention and European legislation. Looking at the side of the profession, the goal of working with people with disabilities is to train them to live and work on their own. Under the current law, people with disabilities would not be worth a job because they would thus lose their right to a personal disability, which they received on the basis of their disability. It's completely illogical. So this change, I repeat again, we welcome and finally a step forward has been moved. As far as personal disability is concerned, it can also be said that it is wrong to limit itself to those who were disabled 18 years ago. In addition, there is a rule of skill that has been made in such a way that the right to personal disability is very difficult to obtain. It would be nice to have the criteria for getting a personal disability change so that most people with disabilities get this right. We will now have a situation where the law will approve a personal disability with employment, but persons who can achieve a personal disability under the current rule must be in extremely poor condition. Incontinent, practically immobilized. So I wonder how these people will be employed? I repeat, physical and mental damage requires increased efforts in everyday life and expects additional material costs, hence these small changes, someone today called them why we would make small changes to the Social Care Act, and we are waiting for the Social Care Act. We've seen how long we've been waiting for me not to do it again from my colleague Beuss's exposure. So I think that for such individuals and small changes, they mean a lot in their lives. Therefore, the SDP club supports these amendments and additions to the Social Care Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49173	Thank you. Mr. Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49174	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I don't really doubt the good intentions of the promoter, even though there are no claims that he has defined in his reasoning of this proposal. Firstly, there is no claim by the promoter that the amendments to this law will not require the provision of additional financial resources. The bill abolishes the limits so far in achieving the level of personal disability, so it is logical and normal and objective to assume that the amount of funds needed will increase. So that's the first claim that doesn't stand. As for calling on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities since 2006 is tending. This Convention lays down that persons with disabilities are granted the right to work, but does not oblige the States to determine in a system of social support to persons making monetary amounts in such a way that the support does not depend on the level of earnings. Croatia encourages the employment of people with disabilities in such a way that the Special Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has prescribed an obligation for employers from the state and public sector to employ one person per 49 workers, and by 2017, every 20 workers per person with disabilities. Under the law, a special fund has been established to provide employers with a refund on the salary of people with disabilities. It also enables the use of these funds to train disabled people, to adapt equipment and labour resources, to adapt their jobs, even to adapt their access to jobs. Therefore, the commitment is to encourage the state to hire disabled people, not to encourage disabled people to retain social assistance despite salary or pensions. It should not be forgotten that the personal disability is a social right, so leaving the link between the level of that right and other receipts would question the principle of justice in the exercise of social rights on that basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49175	Thank you. Mr. Miranda Mrsic, he's gone. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, she's gone. Mr. Nenad Stazic, he's gone. Mrs. Vesna Škulić, she's gone. And Mrs. Neda Klaric, there she is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49176	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we've already heard that in fact, the Law on Social Care provides the right to a personal disability with the weight of physically and mentally damaged persons or persons with severe permanent changes in their health condition, but on the condition that such damage occurred 18 years ago. If a personal disability doesn't come true on some other basis. We also heard that the fee is 250% base, i.e. a thousand and 250 kuna per month. The rules on the composition and manner of the body of skill in the process of exercise of rights and social care determine that serious health damage are considered physical or mental impairment or mental illness for which a person cannot carry out the activities of an appropriate age on his own. The criteria are applied, such as the inability to move independently or with orthopaedic aids such as crutches, walkers, wheelchairs and others, feeding through probe or gastroston, the inability to maintain personal hygiene and to perform physiological needs, and to dress and undress, the inability to receive and remember different information and the inability to establish social relations with other persons which makes it completely dependent on the speed of another person, and changes in personality in behaviour and in reactions with progressive damage in intellectual, emotional and social functioning, with complete dependence on the care of another person. But with all this, it is undeniable that persons with disabilities are entitled to work on an equal footing with others, which includes the right to earn a living from work. It should be noted that when they establish a working relationship they do not lose the right to a personal disability, it is reduced by the receipts and incomes of a person. In practice, this means that if receiving less than the amount of personal disability receives a difference, and if receiving more is not receiving a personal disability. If and when the work relationship stops, continue to receive a personal disability in full. The fact that income is exempt from permanent assistance as well as the amount that a person receives from a legally binding maintenance and family pension points to the social sensitivity of the positive regulation, as it has been taken into account the protection of users who are either single or as family members in unfavourable socio-economic conditions and the preservation of the quality of life through alimony and family pension. Furthermore, whilst working relationship is under way and with age and early retirement it is possible, independently of the amount of income and income, to obtain an allowance for assistance and care of 100% of the basics, noting that these two rights are mutually excluded. Respecting that people with disabilities have additional needs and that is undeniable. In practice, the approval and other forms of assistance, of course guaranteed through the Social Care Act, have been frequented, such as one-time cash assistance and counselling in overcoming and helping overcome specific difficulties. It has also been assessed by the promoters that there is no need to provide additional funding, which is not true. For it is evident that the number of persons with the right to pay or who have made one of these types of pensions should be determined. I believe that it is more meaningful and I share that opinion with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it is more meaningful, more efficient and rational to draw up a draft Social Care Act, which is in charge of a working group with which it works and a subset we also heard from representatives of not only competent bodies, but also representatives of persons with disabilities, which are members of the Association of Persons with Disabilities such as members of the Croatian Association of Physical Disabilities, Deaf, Deaf and Blind, Persons with Mental Retardation, Association of Distrophysants, or members of the Association of Distrophys, Mulitiplesclerosis, etc. Therefore, it is not intended and purposeful to intervene in the law, but rather expected that the new Social Care Act in the most optimal form solves all issues of the organisation. Here's the secretary of state said it in her speech. The establishment of social care is a more specific and clear definition of all rights under the social care law with special sensitivity to persons with disabilities. This results in a wider intervention of the state in the demographic sphere of education and education, labour market policy, social inclusion and strengthening of the basic dimensions of social cohesion. So the new law wants to fully define everything forward, and these are reasons why I will not support the amendment and addition of the existing law, but to support the adoption of a new whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49177	Thank you very much. And finally on behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I think it's still necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49179	Excuse me, there was a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49180	Thank you very much. I think there is still a need to say that in Croatia, slightly less than 20,000 people with disabilities are receiving a personal disability. And there are 515 thousand people with disabilities in Croatia. The proposal therefore does not show which are only for slightly less than 20,000 people with disabilities and suggests that they can exercise the right to an age pension or disability or of any kind. Is that, I'm asking now, is that also discriminatory against other people with a disability of 515 grand? And that can be said to say that the non-acceptance by the HDZ Club of this law goes to all persons with disabilities because when the personal disability is settled in a better way I dare say the new Social Care Act then we will finally have the most adequate and best solution. So at this point, we would only solve those people who are still exercising their rights to a personal disability and we have heard from colleagues here today who have exhibited that it is given for additional costs. Well, here's another mention here and some particular needs I've read in my proposal. There's no special need for a colleague and a colleague. To go to school, to do basic life needs, these are my normal needs as well as yours and all other people with disabilities as well as any other person with disabilities only because people with disabilities meet them in a different way. So, and the personal disability in this situation today is no compensation for that, for those needs. It was a fee remember you who were more mature and older than me, you'll remember that maybe even better than me and you were active and then in politics that exactly the intensity was to get those people with disabilities who didn't work anywhere and never to be able to win because from the former system of colleagues and colleagues were left without any compensation and to allow them to have any compensation for life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49181	Thank you. Mrs. Neda Klaric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, colleague, I'll give you one sentence to answer your observations. I am personally pleased that the full legislative framework and full legislation in the Republic of Croatia will, on equal standards, define all persons with any kind of damage and that it will be a model that will definitely solve all problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49183	Thank you. Mr. Brkaric on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49184	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. I'd like to thank everyone for the debate. I would certainly like to thank the HNS and SDP Club for supporting this proposal to amend and supplement the Social Care Act. I'm a little surprised that the HDZ club didn't support it because this change, although the short one goes right in favour of people with disabilities, is exactly what we all said together, that if it's not a large number, if a person is not losing his right to a disability, a personal disability that amounts to a thousand and 250 thousand kunas, which is not the category of what's said, that de facto a person can live on, but it's precisely those thousand 250 persons with disabilities who have additional needs, it's the person with disabilities who tries to say these additional costs and cover them so that I don't see any reason to lose that right if a person with disabilities has a job relationship or acquires the right to retire except for a family pension. So I'd say it's surprising, and I absolutely agree that it's worth thinking about the Law on Social Welfare but the fact is that we don't have this law, what Mr. Beus said earlier, and we've discussed a blinding allowance a year ago or a little more than a year ago that he proposed to this House of Human Rights Committee, and it's said that we'll deal with it under the new law. That law is gone and absolutely I would say as a proposer I suggest that this bill be accepted in the first reading, that all the useful suggestions that have been given certainly we will install them even though the basic suggestion was that on the side of the HDZ Club not to accept this bill, to wait for a new draft of the law. I don't think people with disabilities who get a personal disability can accept it and won't accept it. That's the club's attitude I can't accept either, but normally we'll vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49185	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 304, Proposer: The debate is closed by the IDS representative's club. In line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the conclusion that "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act is not accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The proposal's conclusion was accepted by most votes, 77 votes in favour, nothing abstentions and 30 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49188	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On such a proposal for a law on special interest tax, we were offered a situation that was in the banking system in early 2009. In fact, this law has been waiting to be debated for 11 months. At the end of 2008, banks in Croatia asked companies of about 103 billion kuna, of the population of 127 billion kuna. At the time, however, the financial and economic crisis that affected the growth of interest rates began, while in Croatia, these interest rates were already paid up to 50% more than those in the euro zone. Interest growth was also recorded by loans with a currency clause, old loans agreed with a variable interest rate. By then, at the beginning of last year, analysts warned that all of this was happening beyond any economic and market legality, or in conditions where there is no great demand for housing loans, for example. Almost all euro area countries, or members of the European Monetary Union, began to take care of the repayments of special housing loans, tied the interest to a reference interest rate of 2.5% at the time, and the interest on housing loans could not exceed 5%. For example, the Italian government has proposed to its parliament that housing loans with an interest rate of less than 4% be kept at that level and in 2009. In Croatia, there were no moves in this way, so in early 2009 interest rates on housing loans were 7%. And what is the situation in Croatian banks? In 2008, 33 banks in Croatia made gross profits of 5 billion and 810 million kuna. The loss was made by only one savings bank. The net profit of domestic banks in 2008 increased by 17.4%. It was achieved at a record amount of 4.78 billion kuna, while also recording an increase in activity of 7.5%. The net income, therefore, was the difference between active and passive interest rates of nearly 10 billion kuna, and from commissions and fees of nearly 3 billion kuna. The trend in interest growth that began in 2008 continued in 2009. Banks were successful in 2009 as opposed to the real sector. So, for example. According to the Croatian Banks' Association, for the first six months, our bank made a profit of 2 billion and 357 million kuna. True, that's something less than it was in the same period last year for about 13%. At the same time, other economic operators in Croatia recorded a decrease in gross profits of as much as 30%. According to available data, credit costs for euro cash loans are moving around, an average rate of around 11.84%, and actually between 11 and 15%, depending on banks. On housing loans from 6.78 to 7.88%. That such a situation has a devastating effect on an economy that does not actually have its own craftsmanship, especially the funds that would go into investment, all macroeconomic indicators and indicators of the standard of living of citizens who are in decline throughout 2009, but also the beginning of this year. The published statistics for the first nine months of last year say that industrial production fell about 10%, that there was still an increase in imports, and that amounting to 11.4 billion euros, exports of only 5.6 billion euros or almost 6 billion euros, we have deficits in that period. In this year, the latest data on the unemployed suggests that we have 309,000 people looking for a job and finding it hard, that the unemployment rate is over 18%. The retail trade continues to record a decline in traffic, 88% of employees receive a salary of less than 6 000, while the minimum cost of a four-member family exceeds 6 thousand kuna. Since there are no indications that banks would respect the real financial and economic situation in Croatia, it is in fact necessary for the government, government or Parliament to react to such a situation. We held a debate yesterday about the Croatian National Bank report and part of the debate was very critical of the business policy of Croatian business banks. And part of the bankers themselves talk about one unfair competition when it comes to how to raise funds, or the amount of interest on deposits that cross or reach a percentage of 7%. Of course, if such a high capital price is collected in banks then the active interest or interest on loans must be high. Why is it so in Croatia, there is actually no economic logic. Croatia has no reason to stimulate savings because it does not save a large number of citizens. The largest number of citizens does not have such income as to save, and those who have the funds on savings there is no reason or any state interest that they receive up to 7% of the interest on one safe investment, so on saving their cash, when such a contribution cannot be obtained in almost any of the activities in which they would invest this money. So, when the government is not already deciding that tax policy responds to such incomes, then it is possible to react with a special interest tax approved by the banks. And what do we suggest? We propose that credit institutions and other legal entities pay a special rate of interest, fees and fees and other costs charged when granting credit if that total rate is more than 9% per year. We estimate that the price of capital above 9% can actually enter neither investment nor any other consumption. Then we suggest that the tax on this particular tax is actually used in progressive rates, in a way that up to 9% is not paid on interest taxes that are greater than 9% and 11% that pay the tax rate at 20%, on interest rates higher than 11% to 13% compared to the first rate of 40% and if they are greater than 13% that, on such a difference, pay a special tax of 80%. We think that in this way we would actually detimise banks to increase interest rates. In particular, we would introduce a payment of a special tax on housing loans that account for an interest rate higher than 7%. The taxpayers, therefore, should not increase the specific fees or make such a tax over to their committees. We also talk about this in Article 5 so that the interest should be charged within five days of the payment of the interest, and within 30 days of issuing the invoice, taxpayers would pay taxes, special interest taxes after 30 days. We have defined criminal provisions here in Article 7 in such a way that a fine of 100000 to a million kuna would be fined by a taxpayer if he did not account or wrongly account for a special interest tax, or if he did not pay a special interest tax within the prescribed period. A person responsible would also be punished for such an offence. Since we gave the bill as early as Thursday, of course it could not have been applied since 1 May 2009, but if the proposal had passed on the day when the law would have entered into force. The government says in its opinion that such a proposal should not be accepted, gives certain reasons why it could not be accepted, that it would be an exception to pay the tax twice, that is, because they pay the tax on profits. However, one is a tax on profit, and the other is a special tax that counts as a sales tax. It should be said that this would not be a precedent in Croatian legislation. In 1994, the government proposed, and Parliament passed a similar law when interest rates on loans were really high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49189	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club is Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49190	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Let's go back to April last year. We became aware that there was a crisis in Croatia and that the crisis was not only caused by external factors but many of our problems and doubts were what to do, what measures to take at the beginning of last year or in the first quarter of last year to deal with the crisis moments in the Republic of Croatia. Our dissatisfaction with the bank went counter to the direction of solving the crisis. They began to take great care of the risks, to reduce the placements, and on the other hand to raise interest on loans and on the citizens and the economy. Therefore, they were the ones who even used it I would say variable interest rates, so the contracts from earlier went simply to change and adapt to themselves. Therefore, at the beginning of last year, we have banking that does not want to participate and participate in the problems of Croatian society, regardless of whether they are businessmen or citizens, but rather looks at their business conditions. Of course, then the basic question is what to do by the authorities and less yesterday by discussing the National Bank Report we concluded that the monetary authority estimated that it had to do something, that it tried everything to release a part of the funds and push those funds towards the commercial banks, that it would in some way make them a cheaper business because simply placed funds outside the National Bank carried something more, on the other hand, to give as much as I would say financial resources needed businesses if nothing else for crafts. And it's likely that an increased surplus of funds would also affect the drop in interest. In short, yesterday in this House it was clearly said that the National Bank had adapted its part of monetary policy to crisis times, though. But other than monetary there is fiscal power, and fiscal power is both government and this Parliament. What we have done in the past year to stop the banking system from limiting funds towards the economy and at the same time to affect the level of interest rates both towards citizens and businesses. If we're just discussing today the law proposed by the SDP club, then the conclusion in that section is done nothing, it's not done. So the question arises whether the fiscal authority really has the potential to affect the business of banks. And don't waste any time discussing the best two arguments. The Croatian Government showed us, the Italian Government showed us, and will soon show us the Austrian Government. The Croatian government introduced a crisis tax in the seventh month. That's double taxation for citizens. First, they pay a regular tax, but then they pay a crisis tax. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, double taxation is not possible. It's obviously not possible when it comes to the banking system. So, the Croatian government's introduction of a crisis tax showed that we could take the tax to the banking system. Why? The highest profits were made in the last year, they abnormally raised interest and threatened both citizens and businessmen. So we could have taxed them because we taxed the citizens, too. It's possible to double-tax. On the other hand, the Italian government is worried about saving, and especially about housing loans currently reacted and halted interest withdrawal. And now the Austrian government is showing us. ... It's a prosaic reason. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We helped you when there was a crisis, we're introducing extra taxes and we'll bring you extra taxes. These are the messages of the Austrian government. And imagine, the Croatian government is aware that these are abnormal interest rates that started moving between 7% and 12% no response, no fiscal policy in that part, no. Positive, pleas, anger. Well, that doesn't help. This is not an integral part of fiscal policy. Measures, laws, these are fiscal policy activities. So we had to last year's banking system make it no interest greater than 5% on housing loans and do something more. And that was our job. It's our task as... whether Croatian governments or if the Croatian government does not see this Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We didn't do it. What is the result of our not launching this activity last year? When I look towards the economy, there are no serious investments in 2009, investments have been stopped. Of course, no investment followed by 9 to 10%, and even 12% can find excuses, can find excuses. On the other hand, an ongoing operation has been compromised, the liquidity of economic operators has been compromised. There are not enough funds, em risks, high interest rates that make them not able to fulfil obligations either according to the banking system, but also according to the state budget. We have debts to the state budget close to 11 billion. And what's very dangerous, we've just developed a financial, capital market. We also had citizens with this activity. And what's happening to us? The bankers are starting to raise passive interest. And, of course, passive interest of 7% reroutes all savings from the capital market towards savings in banks. Sleep tight, you've got 7% on your hands. Unacceptable, this is the collapse of the entire financial market system. It all happened to us last year. We've had small traffic on stock exchanges, very small, limited, symbolic quantities. Because who's going to invest in the risk-market business in securities when we have high interest on the money in the banks. It's a mistake in the fiscal policy we had. And at the same time, of course, when we look at citizens who change interest or the interest-change clause simply happened that they had to pay bigger commitments, they became a problem, limited wages, a reduction in wages in the real sector because they were cutting wages, how to fulfil obligations. And there's more and more of those who couldn't carry out their duties. Therefore, everything that happened from April to the end of last year shows the total lack of fiscal policy in part of the protection of Croatia's interest, the interest of the economy, the interest of citizens, since our interest was too high. And then normally we ask ourselves what about exports, why we have too much imports. But we are not aware that our Croatian economy is uncompetitive. It is uncompetitive mostly because of the excessive costs this country carries on them, too much I would say parafiscal burdens, a large number of large percentages, contributions to health care that we have not regulated as Europe has, but at the same time we burden them with interest. Interest in Europe between 0.5% and 1%, especially if projects are going, and we offer 9% to 12% here. So where can such a project, such a product, such a service be competitive to Europe tomorrow? It can't be completely unequal conditions. And it is again a policy that can have a strong impact on quality measures, affecting the balance of earnings in the Republic of Croatia. Why that didn't happen, we don't know how to explain it, but in this example, it's hard to explain the government. The government's explanation is imagine it's an extra cost to the banks. Well, of course it's an extra cost. They had extra profits, they made sure they didn't fall in the crisis. Now, we're burdening ourselves with those who made the most money last year and who we're yelling at and pointing our fingers at taking their money away. The government says in its explanation that we do not accept any additional burden of business. On the other hand, I have already explained to the government the reasons for the unacceptable double taxation. I'm just warning the government has brought a crisis tax, I'm sorry it's a double taxation of citizens. The bank can't do that. We have to explain that, we can't understand that argument. And, of course, the fear that banks will put this tax into extra interest. Well it's incorporated into the law, our proposal has made it clear that it can't be, that it's punishable if it's being built into an increase in interest. So with me, I'd say progressive tax growth just doesn't have the interest of banks to upgrade interest, because then everything goes into tax. These were simple suggestions that we thought we could talk about, that we wanted to talk, that we wanted to help in how banks teach order, when they won't themselves, then the fiscal government must. He just has to. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to do anything about it. The question remains whether today has any purpose to discuss this proposal, as it is evident that banks will have more and more funds for the next two, three months due to monetary policy and will lower interest. Passive and active. So do we in the Parliament have to be ashamed? Yeah. The monetary government knew how to affect the increase in monetary mass to make them shrink. It remains fundamental, it is commendable, and we can commend the Government for these last measures affecting the banking risk in view of the difficult liquidity situation taking over partly of itself, so it is trying to help banks take over the share of the risk in financing liquid assets in the economy. That's one commendable measure, but can we still be satisfied with how interest falls? No, I don't. Well, we have a different proposal when we talk about this bill. Let the school be our Austrian government. Let us determine the interest that is unacceptable for Croatia, and all income above that interest we hit the crisis tax. We need it. We need money in the budget. We need it. There are high and extra profits for the crisis period in the banking system. And especially if it's housing loans, if it's business loans, let's set up some and hit their taxes, extra income tax. We have the right to do that. We do, because that's what other European countries do. We estimate who can pay for it, not a citizen who can't live on three thousand kunas, but we hit him with a tax. This is the possibility of fiscal policy. Therefore, if this law is now as I would say a little unrealistic, because it is finally beginning to fall, but you will allow a year of crisis, we have allowed the banking system without burden to take all the profits in Croatia. And now, with a big reverse, we change this law, we supplement it, we suggest it, we conclude it, we recommend it to the government. Last year's earnings simply through a special tax given the high interest rate, and as long as the interest is above some limits let's take over and put into the state budget, reduce the citizens' crisis tax, reduce it. We shall take those who earn them. Thus, thousands of variants, but also the rights of fiscal power. And I say again, if the government is prone to the banking system, then I guess we in the Parliament also showed yesterday that we want reality in burdening those who earn money in the Republic of Croatia. Reality, if the reality is that something more for the crisis has to be given to the banking system, let's make a decision on special taxes. Let's make decisions. No calls, no requests, no requests. Why pray and pray when we have power? The fiscal power that laws can regulate that. And that's the SDP proposal. If you're assessing that this is... The proposal can be modified. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Together in Parliament if not the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49191	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49192	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, I said that economic literature says in every textbook that interest rates fall under the conditions of recession, and in inflation conditions they grow. It also says in all textbooks, economics, where banks belong in the total economy. It's clear that they don't create a new value. They are an intermediate in total production, in the overall economy. They serve as one intermediate factor that those who create a new value and through the newly created value have extra money to give, deposit it with the banks so that they, by doing this job, place them to those who also create excess values, but also have a need for money. It is their role, it is their place and it should be made clear what their role is in the overall economic life, both the whole world and Croatia. It should also be stressed that it is not the same position as business banks in Croatia, it is not the same role, and banks in the rest of the world, especially in EU member states. Under conditions where all economic operators are over-indebted, under conditions where the unemployment rate is increasing, under conditions where the degree of self-financing is at a very low level of all economic operators the interest rate is of national strategic interest. Unfortunately, we have a reverse process. I heard a colleague named Linic saying that the measures had led to a reduction in interest rates. I don't think so. There's been a slowdown in interest rates, they're no longer growing. For it has its limits. Well, there's no longer a dead man's way of going around, so I can literally show how banks treat their clients. On the other hand, the bank cannot unilaterally change the clauses of the contract to the detriment of the client, i.e. the credit user. And no bank in Europe has ever done that. In our case, it's almost 100%-tan. In all cases, that's the way it is. Business banks in Europe care for their clients in a way that survives, recovers and can live on them in the future because they live on these clients. The banks are looking at us in the short term, taking what life gives them. The price of money, and interest is the exact term for the price of money, affects a lot of factors, but one is the most important. It's a source of funds for credit ratings. That's exactly what these deposits you, colleague Linic, were talking about, which banks themselves are pushing, under quotes, to pay interest even above 7%. It's a unique case in the world. I guess it should become a protected patent. And why do they do that? Only because I can make up for it, but there's a limit. These deposits are also unsustainable when the tax reserve rate has been reduced to increase the supply of money affecting the reduction in interest rate is not good that it has been reduced universally to all discounts equally. Some must not be reduced if we want a good Croatian economy. So there must not be a reduction in the rate of mandatory reserves on consumption, on trade, on the purchase of shares, on lending, but must be maximised for housing credits if the housing is the driver of the Croatian economy. The fact is, the interest rate has to be less than the profit rate. That's economic legality. If the interest rate is higher than the profit rate, then the credit user makes the client lose its own substance which eventually ends either in bankruptcy or in liquidation. Unfortunately, we've experienced thousands of such cases. If the interest rate is on the entry category, on the deposits, 7% then it is necessary to be 9.10.12 or 13% at the placement. And I wonder what this Croatian economy can do to make the profit rate higher than those levels of interest rates? There's no activity like that. A profit rate calculates and covers interest rates, fees, commissions and all other fees and only then, business costs, and some profitability of the business activity itself remains. Praise is worth every effort to try to influence the reduction of interest rates by any move. And this social component in this proposal that I recognise, which wants to enter into market relations in its proposal itself, is an acceptable measure to affect the reduction of interest rates. But I do know for sure, and I'm sure there are no conditions for that measure to be effective. And why is that? It's very simple. There are still options in the Croatian banking system for reacting in an unexpected way. This tax, i.e. the interest tax proposal above a certain amount, I am convinced will serve only as an alibi for business banks to increase interest rates. As long as there's such a possibility, it's very dangerous, and I expect it to act as stimulating to reduce interest rates, but I'm afraid of even worse variations. Not only raise interest rates on the amount of that tax, but using this opportunity to increase even more than the tax itself is. Let's just remember the excise tax on phone impulses. They didn't collect the same night just for so much, but twice as much, they abused the position. We have to do everything in our power to create conditions so that business banks can't behave. I publicly ask, there is no institution, there is no part of society that has not responded to the conditions of the economic crisis and recession. It is rare that the sector that has not hit the pay cut has not paid its salaries, the reduction in income by various grounds, the only banking system has not brought any measure to its savings. Which saves only one bank for members of its bank's management to pay 20 million kuna a year under recession conditions. They haven't given up anything they've enjoyed in years. They didn't cut any wages, they didn't cut any costs that were extras that weren't directly linked to the current business. While it's so just gonna use these situations to further improve your situation. I told my clients in Spain yesterday, although they don't pay six months, they give the government a period without a decision without intervention, out of business interest give grace for two years, they self-initiately reduce interest and wait for 6 months to pay off the first war. But they know they'll live on it in the future. One of my good acquaintances in Sweden says he has a residential loan, received a letter at home, was surprised by his bank and was tied to Croatia, as he heard that every day reports are coming to raise the interest rate, he received a notice on housing credit, given the conditions in which everyone and the entire economy are located, reducing his interest rate by 0.75%. I know it sounds idyllic, but it's true. But we're lucky if the banks don't surprise us at least one day. But I also think that many need to change their behavior towards banks. I haven't seen a single case yet that the unions of a particular company have said we're moving from this bank and we're going to another bank. But the calls are coming. And imagine me arriving yesterday when I came home last night, a bank announcement, that if I transferred my account to them, they wouldn't be counting on an account opening fee. They're competing on how to get a client and then on fraud later for processing for reporting, for sending out copies, they're counting on fees. Gentlemen, we are in such a situation, dear friends, colleagues and colleagues, that a pensioner who decides to separate his 500 kuna into a black day account and doesn't want to touch them at all because he may need it, will cut his electricity if he doesn't pay the bill. After a while, he'll come to the bank, the money's gone, and he didn't spend it. Why? They charged him with management fees, every month for reporting, sending out copies and eating his substance without using it, because interest on sight cannot cover even part of the cost of commissions and fees. No transactions whatsoever. This is a picturesquely said Croatian reality in the banking system. The HDZ Club cannot accept this proposal, primarily because it is afraid of abuse and the increase that this will act in a stimulating way on an increase in interest rates rather than what was realistically expected to reduce interest rates. Therefore, by offering money to monetary policy instruments with a selective approach, I said yesterday, a selective approach should urgently respond to the introduction of a minimum reserve rate on deposits. If a minimum reserve rate is imposed on deposits above 3.5%, no bank will give an interest rate above 3.5% and thus create itself a prerequisite for the highest interest rates for credit ratings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49193	We only have one correction on behalf of the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49194	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of a esteemed colleague who said the telecoms picked up double impulses. As a matter of fact, they collected or redefine the accounting period rather than accumulated impulses, but this is already a problem for the non-functional Consumer Protection Act. Therefore, this argument is that because of the fear that such a thing might happen, this law does not stand in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49195	Thank you. But until my colleague gets here, let me have a brief comment. By listening to these discussions, we conclude that actually the doctors agreed to the diagnosis, they just didn't agree on how to cure this further. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49196	Thank you, Mr. President. I personally and on behalf of our club thank my colleague, Maric, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club because he really described the situation in Croatian banking in a very picturesque way. Accepting such an initiative that something needs to be done about the rate of interest rates that banks in Croatia are counting on different types of loans, so from those residential to those cash non-intentional but I say you can't accept because you're afraid of abuse. Well, we're the most responsible here to keep such abuses from being sanctioned or sanctioned. You're saying if it were to happen that banks had to bill and pay a special interest tax above a certain interest rate, they'd probably turn it over to their own committees or credit users. We have foreseen this situation and in Article 6 of the proposal we say that taxpayers, therefore banks and other financial institutions cannot charge a special interest tax to legal and natural persons, of whom they charge interest. Since we're not just talking about interest here, we're talking about the amount of the total cost of the loan, so we should add up interest, compensation, commission and other costs that the creditor charges when granting the loan. So it couldn't have happened that he transferred that tax in some other kind to the committee itself. You've said here extraordinary examples of Spanish banks that self-initiatively invest, reducing interest, allowing the prolonging of credit payments actually invest in their future. If the Croatian banks do not do so, then the government and parliament obligation, so those responsible for the country's financial and economic policies are responding. I was already here in the first place when I said that in Croatia banks make more profits than their parent banks, which are co-owners or owners of all banks operating in Croatia, so I'll tell you, for example, that banks that make such high profits, we said over 5 billion in last year, in 2008, they also pay dividends. In Croatia, we have such a tax policy that we do not tax dividends, they so without any contribution to the Croatian budget so paid dividend or part of the profits are transferred to their countries of origin. They probably have to pay there because in most European countries, the dividend tax is paid. They have to pay taxes and so what our citizens here contribute to their business is part of these funds ending up in other countries' budgets. And in the end, you said it would be good for the monetary government, or the Croatian National Bank, to react with the reserve policy, which would be different from certain types of placements. I don't think that's good. If you are afraid of abuse that would happen by adopting such a bill, then you should be afraid of abuse in this way because by increasing the reserve for certain purposes, deposits or something else or other, such as placements, cash loans, etc. There is also greater immobilisation of funds, less liquidity in that bank, and it will react again if it wants to gain more, higher income will again react with higher interest. So let's not be afraid of abuse, be brave and intervene while that's still possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49197	Thank you. Correction Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49198	Thank you very much. Comrade Zgrebec, you said it would not be a good idea to selectively act on monetary policy measures because you are also afraid of abuse. It's impossible to control here because there's no responsibility. The Bank may freely raise interest on market circumstances as much as it wishes and, if the National Bank prescribes a regulation that mandatory reserves must be allocated to deposits with interest above 3.5% it and monitors this and has sanctions and has regulations under which it may misdemeanourly comply and penalties shall be paid by the person who violates that regulation. And the bank that raises the interest rate isn't in violation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49199	Let's move on with this interesting debate. Mr. Zlatko Koračević on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, we at the Croatian People's Party club support the SDP Law Club proposal submitted by the SDP club in the parliamentary procedure 18 months ago, more than a year ago. The reasons why and why I think that the opening arguments are very clear and core and I must personally stress that I enjoyed the very inspired, core and analytical debate of my colleague Marić on behalf of the HDZ club. I think that this debate has sublimated all of those negativity, I can freely say and that word to use, insolence and arrogance of the banking sector towards the citizens of this country, I will not say to the state but to the citizens and almost certainly in this subject all of which is rare, it is only a question of how much more keenly anyone has to express their support for the finding of something or less but since the President of the Croatian Parliament has made very clear in his remarks about his impression, and that is that we are all in agreement with the diagnosis. So it's all clear and there's really no need in particular to specify the examples that each of us has from any segment, a segment that is influenced by the banking sector and, in any case, it's almost impossible to find a positive example. We're talking business banks. The only bright point when we talk about banking sectors is to make it very clear and loud, it is the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. There are still light points, when I talk about banks, but these are banks with their participation in the banking market of negligible small ones, because the fact is that around 80, 75, there are different estimates, but in over 2/3 of the banking market controls six, seven people who pay off, here we heard from fellow Maric, for one premium over 20 billion. Therefore, the matter is very clear. We agree on the diagnosis, we disagree on therapy, but we want to accept this bill as part of the treatment because we agree on the diagnosis of the disease. Therefore, if something is sick, it should be treated. Let's go now. Maybe it's not good, but let's go. And I don't think I see any reason, since we agree on a diagnosis I don't see any reason not to accept this. Who can handle it? An expert team anyway. And who's the expert team in our case? Government of the Republic of Croatia. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia have any communication with business banks? There is. Is that why there's no courage to get into solving this problem, this disease, that's the question. That someone has some special benefits it's hard to say, but the fact is there's no willingness to enter into solving something that's sick, which is definitely from day to day increasingly impoverishing both our country and our citizens. We are here in the Croatian Parliament at one point when it was necessary, accepted the Government's proposal to raise the level of guaranteed savings roles. We've all accepted that. I think it was a unanimous decision by all MPs in the Croatian Parliament on the government's proposal. Who did we guarantee these savings roles to? To the banking sector, the owners of the banking sector, we guaranteed them these savings roles. What did the owners of the banking sector bring back to us? Just one measure, we've raised the level of savings guaranteed by the state. What did they bring back? Nothing. Would it be logical and normal to tell those same owners, gentlemen dear country has in the deposit so much and so much money, your deposit. The state did it, the state is ready and done it. The monetary authority has become involved, I have a special opinion on the monetary authority and a special position that was expressed yesterday when we discussed the report of the Croatian National Bank, so there is no need to speak in particular now, but certainly part of this story in the creation of the entire infrastructure used by the banking sector is misused. In fact, there's one harder word we've learned in stories and the beginning of primary school. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia definitely has instruments to prevent and in what way to prevent the abuse of monopoly, abuse of extremely difficult situations, for which reasons, which are the causes of the overall economic crisis, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia has instruments of various, formal and informal. And why don't you say it loud and clear. Whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia has the support of us in the Croatian Parliament in terms of formalising through legal provisions, through legislative proposals, through amendments to laws, instruments called, folk, whip. We give the carrot, but we're not ready for the whip. And by not accepting this bill, the SDP club colleagues' proposal seems unprepared. I don't think that's good, and I think that part of the responsibility that lies on each of us's names, MPs in the Croatian Parliament, on this bill of law, I think it shows parts and its duality, and that's not good, it's not useful. And I think at least on this example we should show our responsibility, the responsibility of accepting therapy, regardless of whether it's less effective in treating or more successful, but the fact is that at least it's moving from somewhere because we haven't had anything to do with it so far, because if we had, this situation that happened in creating an extra profit in the banking market. And also yesterday, counterpart Maric asked a great question, which is how speculative the future gains will be shown in bank balance sheets are hidden in reserved placements. That'll show us the time. Therefore, I am not at all afraid that the banking sector, by adopting this law, will create an additional cost for them, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia means, and we are certainly going to be tested all together as a society if we are not able to come up with instruments, if we are not able to come up with mechanisms that, after adopting this bill, will prevent any possibility from the banking sector, because this is certainly not enough, we are all in agreement, but at least something, at least the beginning of something, that will prevent any possibility or any reason that banks in any other way raise their interest. And I'm quite certain that we have ways of creating a system that will allow banks to have this law as an alibi for raising and charging their costs, and interest as well. The Croatian People's Party club supports this SDP bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49201	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49202	Well, dear colleague, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption where you said we were all in agreement with the diagnosis. I would disagree because I lack one important link in these diagnosiss, which is to demystify the role of the state in this whole situation. I'd like to know if certain banks have installed their own people by individual ministries. I'd like to know how many states with their borrowing are also generated by high interest rates and I miss this fact very much in the overall diagnosis of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49203	Thank you. As the government called for co-operation on important issues, this may be the area where some work proposals would be the easiest to come about. We're moving on to an individual debate and Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49204	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I have to admit, I feel a little weird today at the assembly when we're discussing this issue. We all agree on nothing but what we do not do. And I just can't accept a model like that. Maybe this law isn't ideal, maybe it can be better. But it is clearly said in front of the SDP, a SDP representative club that is the legislator of this law that we are ready to do, make it better and more feasible. I can't believe there's not a single mathematical model that would detimise through the bank's taxes to raise interest to make them even bigger if, as the HDZ Representatives' Club said, they didn't fit in, that tax not to be added to extra interest. It is simply not possible and, of course, it must be possible to prepare such a law. We've been listening to two days of discussion. Yesterday in the media was the news, she marked it. All the banks agree too much in the crisis, left-handed, right-handed together about banks. Well, the banks won't react. The public will hear that. Nothing's gonna happen. They'll keep making money. Well, that's what I'm doing as an agent, and I believe my club can't accept. If you were in a position like that, you'd change that for sure. What else should be noted, yesterday we had a lot of criticism sent to the CNB that here's the CNB that can correct the interest rate height. Sometimes it seems to me like a debate where you can do it on every market. Then why don't we get the Telecommunications Agency, why don't we call the Telecommunications Agency and say lower the price of the phone pulse. Or to protect the competition to go shopping and ask merchants to cut the price of groceries. It can't be an excuse and the CNB isn't here to order someone on the market how and how to act. Of course, Croatia's banks, unfortunately, are most of the largest in foreign ownership, so do not behave on their markets because they protect their banks in their markets and their market for their citizens and their companies. In small markets where they have branches because they are all multinationals such as Croatia can afford what they are doing. And I can only afford it because we allow it. In this case, I don't mean from the SDP, but from a government that won't sit with banks, which won't offer any solutions to lower their incomes from interest and in some way do what's true. Indeed, interest never grows in recession and it does not happen anywhere in the world except in Croatia. So the move is on who has the responsibility of managing Croatia and not at any institution that regulates that market in Croatia. What we should say when we talk about this law that banks in the last year really made a huge income from the interest of 22, nearly 23 billion kuna. In doing so, they gained a profit of $3.4 billion that was slightly lower than a year earlier. But since they made large reserves for the losses accumulated in the banks, that's how nearly 7.7 billion kuna came together. So 3.4 billion through profit almost or more through the reservation of potential risk loans. They did business in my opinion even better than a year ago. What should also be said in Croatia was the average interest rate last year was 9%, and we did not put 9% in the club of representatives without meaning as the first interest rate to be taxed between 9 and 11 and 20% interest, because the average interest rate in Croatia was 9%. In the European Union, the average interest rate was around 3% at that time. So three times less than it is in Croatia. This says absolutely in this direction that there is room to reduce the interest rate and on the other hand that banks use a position on the market and in some ways even have a mutual and agreement to regulate that market and have a common good profit. What is still to be said by the plasma, or loans that were made last year, are absolutely covered in the deposits of Croatian citizens and these profits, means what is the paradox throughout the system of foreign banks on our domestic market covers all their placements through deposits, and earning from these placements draws out and that money measured in billions of kunas have for themselves. So on our money, our companies, our market, our citizens didn't even bring money from the outside to earn it. What is absolutely always compatible when we talk about how the market is done and whether it is really unfair and unfair what in Croatia is made of such high interest and profits from the business of banks. Just look, make one benchmark and see how much these banks make on their markets. How common is it to gain income. And then when you take the information from Croatia and read the biggest Croatian banks, let's say I take an example of ZABA, you see that ZABA makes about 25% of the profits in income. At the same time, since ZABA is part of the Unicredit Group, look at little how its banks did business in the markets of Austria, Germany, Italy, and you get the data that in the last quarter they have on the websites, the third quarter of 2009 in Austria was 7%, in Germany 8%, in Italy 7%. Now either in Croatia are really more capable managers in the same multinational than they are in Austria, Italy and Germany, or they make a lot more money here because they are allowed to do so. I think they earn a lot more in Croatia because of what they are allowed and the regulations that we have in Croatia. I'm going to look at another piece of information about how banks in the world are considering whether it's a crisis or not. Let's say Deutsche Bank, the largest German bank also had about 25% of income profits in 2007, it earned a revenue of 9 billion euros and, as such, made a profit before taxing around 2 billion and 300 million euros. But in 2008 she lost, in 2009, the profit was minimal, below 10%. So when the recession in Germany was the most pronounced, the bank’s profits did not exist, i.e. it knowingly went into loss to protect its market, citizens and companies that operate there. So absolutely in Croatia, banks are not acting as usual in the world, I say the most because foreign and second because of what Croatia allows them to be deficient and such regulations as we have proposed in the club of representatives. In the end, I absolutely believe it is necessary to pass such a law in order to definitely allow for the drop of interest rates in Croatia. If there is a better proposal on how to regulate these relations between interest rates and taxes, it is absolutely necessary to see, sit, agree and propose, but the urgency of the law must be this one, which is that the legislator dims high interest rates, that there are no interest rates in Croatia three times what it is in the European Union, because, apart from good, there is a slightly greater risk of investment, but there is no going to be a three-time higher interest rate than it is in the European Union. After all, all of these pay at the end of Croatia's citizens, Croatian businesses, and should in some way take more care of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49205	Thank you. We have a replica. First Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49206	Dear colleague Maras, somewhere in the beginning of your debate, you spoke about how impossible it is for the government or some government agency to directly limit or determine the prices of certain specific products. I think you mentioned the Telecommunications Agency, or the cost of telephony and so on, because it's contrary to the free market, or free market game. I couldn't agree more with you. But I really want to introduce you to the fact that tomorrow will be possible, and only for one product. In fact, tomorrow we will discuss the Law on textbooks and we will adopt this law, and most will adopt it, and the Law on textbooks provides for the highest price of textbooks to be prescribed by the minister. And despite its market game, despite all the principles of the European Union prices will have to be in that highest... as prescribed by the Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if it's possible to do that in that area, then obviously it's possible in another. To be clear, I don't think it's possible in any way, but it will be possible from tomorrow in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49207	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49208	So I would say to my colleague Lugaric that you have just pointed out one problem that we are defending today that this law cannot be passed because it would not, that would be the burden of the end consumer, that is, if it were not possible to define it within one law. And we see that tomorrow, however, the Government allows itself to set certain prices and define what prices are on the market. I would now not speculate on what is more important, whether to protect the price from being too high a book, or to reduce interest because in Croatia, however, Croatian citizens have around 118 billion kuna duties. Now in Croatian banks, share the number of citizens and you will reach an impressive figure. Which would mean that the interest rates on average decrease by 2%, we don't have to talk much. So in Croatia few people have no credit, and we do nothing to say foreign banks with our money to Croatian citizens take too many banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49209	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49210	Mr. Maras, you spoke primarily of interest in your presentation, but I'd like to share with you an experience if it weren't just interest problems in banking business. Namely, I was approached this weekend by two of our citizens with their business difficulties. I'm not talking about a bank that I don't do commercials, but it's about a bank with a branch in Croatia, a foreign branch bank in Croatia that's stronger than a headquarters abroad. It's about that bank. Not that they've changed interest rates, but they're changing the terms of the revolving loan that's under way. They're going to push the mortgage to 85,000 euros to a craftsman for 50,000 kuna, because it's in business difficulties, because there's a collapse on the market. These are living examples. When I asked my friends who deal with finance what's going on in that bank, they tell me openly, says there's a new leadership out there that's afraid and your own shadows. Wait, gentlemen, what's wrong with us? Whether it's interest or we need a strong Croatian business bank that we don't have, I'm afraid that the process that's in the work of the mathematical dictionary can be expressed like this, the work of being depreciated, fragmented and destitute, and the capital is systematically multiplied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49211	Thank you. Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49212	Thank you very much. I couldn't agree more with you, but someone in the debate has already mentioned it. The problem in Croatia is not only interest income but also non-performing revenues. And nowhere in the world are they so pronounced. According to the National Bank, revenues are approximately a fifth or a quarter of the total income of banks. So, banks have, let's say, for the first six months here is the data of 11 billion kunas of interest income, and from commissions and fees of 2 billion kunas. And other unaccounted for billions and 800. So, as much as 4 billion kunas, I've even said too little, a third of the income is unaccountable, and only 2 thirds are interest incomes. There is no such ratio anywhere in the world, and absolutely Croatian banks waved at the costs charged by Croatian citizens. Quite often, I would also call on the Consumer Protection Act, if people were not even aware of what it costs, how much it will pay, etc. Especially because prices change every little bit and then from 100 fees very difficult any consumer in Croatia can follow that story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49213	Thank you. And a replica, Mr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49214	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras said you had no mathematical model to lower interest rates. Well, those who deal with intense economic science, and John Maynard Keynes is the biggest economist of all time, says only by offering money more money can bring down interest rates. And it's an indisputable claim, but in terms of elastic demand for money. Under the conditions of the insatiable demand for money as it is in Croatia, this model will not succeed in itself. It is therefore a model to reduce the entry costs because only by reducing the entry costs can there be reduced interest rates. And by reducing the entry costs can come by introducing regulatory measures, mandatory reserve rates on deposits, to interest rates on deposits above 3.5%. The import cost will be halved, the assumption of reducing and halveing the exit interest rates, or active interest rates. Without additional costs, it's only creating even the security of the banking system because the reserves are eventually set aside, and if the banks are not singled out, then the interest rates will be passive up to 3.5%. I teach political economy in college. I found no scientific and professional literature as a tax model additional to something that would lower something. There's no extra tax on interest to lower interest rates. It doesn't exist. And otherwise, we're all fighting to unburden the economy, not to burden the economy, and this is exactly the new burden of that economy that's just about to roll over, as you like to say, against the citizens again. And I agree, he'll go after the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49215	Replication response, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maric, you didn't hear well I said there was a mathematical model, and surely Keynes wasn't involved in the way and taxation. It also deals with the market and how the market affects certain demand and consumption. So, on the other hand, if he had a specific problem with Croatia, he might have reacted in this way. He didn't have any, but he generally set things up. What I would tell you is not the question that citizens will pay and that interest rates will increase. There's a model, and I'm sure this is a good model that's definitely going to de-simulate banks to raise their prices, or interest rates, of the CNB maybe and set the upper limit of interest as far as I know. There can't be any interest for citizens. Consumer credits are the ones most burdened and there is an upper limit to which it can be taxed. Since we in the proposal went after the detimisation of interest rates above 9%, it is very likely that banks would make their logic about reducing interest rates. Of course they could try to pass the cost of citizens through other fees, etc., but in that case they would have to react with the education of citizens not to use certain things they do not have to and in some way to try to contain what is happening in Croatia today, which is that banks take too much money for Croatian citizens. I'm sure there's a model, this one might be better, but there's a model where we can detimize banks to raise interest rates. And certainly not the only one in the world to apply. I believe, so we have in Croatia and additional markets, additional services that we additionally tax so these companies do business with profits. Here's your tobacco industry. They have the same large excise duties, etc., business with profits... Well, yeah, but they're doing business. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it can function and can in some ways affect itself at a lower price.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49217	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49218	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. What does this proposal for a Law on Special Interest Tax and a Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code that we have discussed online? It is the group of proposals and a whole set of laws that the SDP club has almost sent to the Croatian Parliament for a year now. And Madam Prime Minister, when she comes to the current morning, she's giving us lessons, that's her answers, not pleasant questions, so don't just criticise something and suggest. And that's exactly what this is. That's a lot, and that's a lot. But she's not here. There's no secretary of state, no secretary of state, no secretary of state. There's no secretary from the secretary or doorman to come by, talk to you. It's just a show for the people. But these 2 of our proposals, and so are the others, who want to help the citizens in these difficult times, they also show nature, in fact, to respond to these legal proposals by the government, also to the very nature of this government. They talk about how strong she is always when it comes to the weak, when it comes to falling down on the weak, and how weak she is to the strong. They can't do anything and they don't want anything. It's also a story about who this government pours a glass to, and who drinks the last drop out of a glass. Banks are otherwise, and such a position in Croatia has become essentially a state in the country. We too marvel at the people of the old world in Bible times when people worshiped a golden calf. And now this government worships bankers and banks, doesn't touch them. Yes, and in these times of crisis, that ball of capital continues to fertilize and continue to increase in whose account. It's something that's permissible, it's something that such banks don't do in parent homes, because there's still the government in one way or another trying to have a shred of sensitivity, especially in difficult times. But we don't. The banks dictate to us what the laws will look like. For example, and executive law that has direct ties to this where one loan is charged, these are the most common housing loans with our citizens left without an apartment without any court. Well, the banks don't have to go to court. That's what gave them this power. We were right to put an end to that injustice and abolished the fiduciary insurance. We abolished the fiduciary by treating it as unfair, unfair. There's enough mortgage insurance, but that wasn't enough. What would banks do with a court of law with some kind of long-term executive procedure? It is for ordinary citizens when they demand some debt from the state or themselves in relations with each other in pure civil legal relations. For them, the execution remains a pain in the ass, but not for the banks. They have a completely different position. So much for how the government has as much social sensitivity and shows once again that it is power and that they are ruling nothing but protectors of large capital. Citizens vote. A good part of the citizens who are in this trouble voted for also the ruling. Is it really their destiny to fall in love with authority? That's funny to you. We tricked them again. But it's really serious. Families often experience real drama. How much since they have already gained power and some calculations and calculations to raise credit not only to remain jobless, but also in these conditions even though they work even though they get paid simply given the rise in interest, as well as to experts who predict that this growth in interest on housing loans will continue to wilden. And now this proposal of ours to jump into it, he ignores it, he justifies that it's not possible, there are different excuses, instead of realizing that you're the authority that you're responsible and that you're offering final solutions. It can't be because it is. It's socialist manners, administrator, come tomorrow and he's been looking every time to escort you without solving your case. And when he's been spending months and months looking in laws how he can't do something, he can't. So how do you spend so much energy on how to explain that something can't? We offer solutions. You're saying this isn't good. You guys have something to offer. You've given up everything. And well said our colleague Jurcic recently was a government with a parachute, now that the parachute is gone, we're just going to go to ruin with a free fall. These kind of amortization measures we're proposing you reject. I think it's a bit of a boast on that trail of escaped Sanader who used to say this when he faced problems like this, so he would tell the bakers, listen don't increase the price of bread, they said don't increase you. And he's been so pretending there's no instrumentation for these things. Apparently, he needed instruments for other things. That's what he said about the beginning of the wild, the announcement of only increasing interest, he said, so wait, he said don't turn to the banks, don't increase interest you made a lot of good money on the citizens. And it's like a preacher who only acts with his own words, and the government doesn't have any instruments. That's not the way it is. The state has all the leverage to do it either in one way or another, so when it sees something unsustainable, it's unfair, it's run by a chain, that those who don't get paid don't get any protection, that those who won't be able to pay off the loans that will have to move out of those apartments no matter how much they've paid off by now. But tomorrow, dear colleagues, we won't get paid either. Greece will happen to us, we won't have anywhere to run. The residence law will also prevent us from taking any other measures that the government has implemented positively. Therefore, the matter is really serious. And there's no excuse why the government doesn't want to object to the banking system of that financial power centre that seems to be no longer managed by any government, but managed by our banks and managed by our bankers. And what kind of business is that, when it's owned by the state, it's unwrapped, it's rolling through our courts, and it looks like it's going to start rolling when Hypo Bank reaches and international courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49219	Thank you. It's just interesting how five times voters fall in love with five choices. And once they fell in love right. What about that old love of oblivion? Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic said that this authority is guilty of executive documents, payments going through banks now. It is simply incorrect but I will remind them that in 2002 they passed the Law on Payments by which the implementation of the executive payments by the transaction accounts of the perpetrators from the then Department of Payments which was the only one who could carry out that payment traffic transferred to the banks. Therefore, you must remember. You've passed those laws. You've introduced legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49221	Replica, Mr. Representative of Luke Denon. Mr. Representative, be careful with my colleague in this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49222	I'm trying to remember how conveniently you said to locate it, so I can't remember. But here's an esteemed colleague, your debate shows and you have shown and you point to something that may have happened in this Croatian Assembly before, but this afternoon it will surely remain remembered that we have about two problems about the laws that we propose agreed to be immoral and that we should do something about it. In the first, the government will do something when the conditions are obtained, and in this second, here is listening to Mr. Marić on behalf of the HDZ Club, I sign everything he said and I expected that the sequence was that even more rigorous legislation or legal provisions would be proposed than we suggested. Obviously, in the end, that's his reluctantly said, but in any case, Mr. Maric, we have four solutions left. A lot but we have four solutions. The first thing is to leave everything the way it is and to keep complaining about how the bank's interest is the way it is. The second thing is to take the risk, we're afraid of that risk. Let's take a chance. Let's try some legal solutions to cancel those high interest rates. Thirdly, you, as a knower or as an expert, propose to this Croatian Parliament the establishment of a commercial Croatian bank with the reputation of Deutsche Bank so that we can all transfer our roles to this new Croatian bank and then someone will still sober up in one way and the interest will begin to fall. And the fourth is to start a band of AIDS and sing together to make the interest fall anyway. I don't know what's best. A band of AIDS I like, we can sing. I also like to accept part of these legal solutions, and I like to accept the risk of showing that we care and that we have solutions and that we know how to handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49223	This was something interesting now. The case of my colleague Ingrid "error in person" has happened because the representative Denon, replicating you, actually made a mistake in the object of replicating and replicating the representative Maric. And you are not a representative of Maric, you are Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49224	Mr. Vice President, no eror in person has happened. Person was just as easy as it might have happened "aberatio icus" but he's a little around, hit the right subject again and the right place. And the truth is that. A good colleague of Luke Denon's replicated and it says that with his knowledge he should really give a lecture to the government and that would be in favor of all of us, and above all the citizens and the government would be very helpful, just as much as the government has learned to listen to smart advice that is now a second and third question, I think basically the last hole in playing when it comes to this government that normally works on this principle, patching up something here and there or making an illusion you know. Well, while something's patching up the holes, the thing is that this fabric has worn out and that it needs to be replaced soon. I'll see you at the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49225	And we're going to do that a little bit, let's hope he doesn't just hurry up with the election. Just to get the parachute up. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49226	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So far, practice not only in our country but also in other countries has shown that all the specific taxes, regardless of the form they appear in, are ultimately converted to the final consumer. For credit institutions, this specific tax is on the other hand an additional cost, and it will be shown accountingly in its business books. This means that they will reduce the base of the profit tax for that amount and thus pay a lower profit tax. In particular, they will pay a lower profit tax but also a special interest tax that has not been paid so that they will remain globally on the same watchful overall tax burden. On the other hand, the implementation of this new tax will also require additional billing and payment costs for both credit institutions and the Ministry of Finance and Tax Administrations, I mean monitoring and control of the collection. In this case, the credit user does not benefit from the introduction of a specific tax because it remains the same interest. If, however, credit institutions increase their interest rates or other forms of compensation or fees charged to the creditor by the creditor, they will simply transfer the specific tax cost to the creditor. In this case, it will pay a higher price or be additionally burdened and I do not think the law will be able to perform the function proposed and this is a reduction of interest rates. In view of the tax aspect, the introduction of every additional tax into the tax system is essentially double taxation contrary to the basic principles of taxation and the general tax law. At the same time, it would complicate the tax system and the method of calculating and controlling the application and it is not clear whose income that tax would be, whether the state budget or the local self-government units. If, by any chance, this bill and I accept it, I must say that it is certainly not fully defined because it is left to the Minister of Finance to redefine the specific method and method of calculating the specific tax. It's like if you built a car without wheels and then told the buyer later that he could fit the wheels. Finally, neither from the draft law nor from the reasons and debates, I see the justification or economic justification of the above mentioned parameters for the proposed taxation other than, of course, the additional costs in application, and I suggest that the law is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49227	Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49228	Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's another one of the series of suggestions we're making and expected, although it's not good, reaction almost the same way. We entered a field that we all agreed on, which draws roots from unfortunate privatisation and in the context of the recovery and privatisation of the banking system. We know that the state, i.e. the taxpayers and the citizens, recovered the banks, and then we sold them beautifully to foreigners, so today almost everything, or almost all the banks owned by foreigners, foreign owners. And these banks as one of the essential mechanisms in the economy, there's no better in the system to say no money management, but we can say money management, banks behave today as they behave. They're acting the way we've heard here tonight that almost maybe in some countries that have already experienced bankruptcy, where the economy has failed, but almost within us, these same banks whose owners in these same countries are Western European democracies that we're looking for, where we're going, don't behave like that. But in this country, in this system of economic, political systems, social systems can behave, they have fertile soil, and that's why they behave. With their logic of thinking, of profit, of making profit, quite understandable that they behave this way, but to us and the economy, our citizens, I would not even say it creates but is causing existential problems both in the economy and in the citizens. It happens to us that the crisis of the economy, the recession, everywhere in the world, the interest fell significantly, the banks adjusted, not just because economic logic made them do it. No, economic logic wanted to make profit and profit and exactly what they were doing in our country, but in other countries they met with state mechanisms with national regulations and with the will of policy that in the economy in protecting citizens, the economy and enabling business conditions, but above all allowing citizens, I would say even one word that may not be directed, survive this situation because it will be even worse, and we all agree on that regardless of what some measures have started for a year and a half to do, or to bring a fat delay, but what we would never say is too late. These measures, which are insufficient in the assessment of economists, we welcome, but we are convinced all together I think in this Parliament that initiatives should arise and that in this crisis situation should have its word and say and obey. We all agree it'll take a lot to do. This law is on track, as is this whole set of laws that we have proposed in that particular section. I agree that one measure that is unpopular in any case, but the measure that the state has called, so the state, the government is invited to bring legislation, so if we want to intervene because America did it because liberal capitalism, in the end no one wants to say it too loudly, has experienced it means that no longer being able to do what they want, that the market can't be liberal, as we're still saying it has to be, that the market will regulate everything, it won't. America has shown every dollar she has invested has nationalized banks. This is one attempt to make that extra profit, extra profit, a growing profit, be careful all the parameters are going down in the economy and in the past and in this year, at least those basic parameters are going down, citizens are living worse, and banks are getting fat, profits are growing, profits are growing, profits are then ending where they end up. We'd be overjoyed to reinvest that profit, but with such interest and interest rates, we certainly can't reinvest, first thing. The second thing, the money-placement thing with such interest rates is causing indifference, causing the inability to survive an economy that can no longer fulfil its obligations, can no longer pay the interest, can no longer pay the principal. Citizens are faced every day, I think people are afraid in the morning to wake up everyone with credit, and the vast majority of Croatian citizens live on credit today, living from salary to salary. Before we talked about wages, and we also saw that we didn't have the will to intervene immediately, and now to allow people to get their salary, no matter what laws were passed, all lies of artis, the man has the right to pay. The pay isn't disputed, but the paper's gone, the paper, this rustic paper called money, without which it can't survive. Therefore, to make it possible for the economy and I agree that taxation interest will not lower interest rates, but it will also allow them not to grow enormously, I would say rudely in this situation the growth of interest. There's nothing anyone can do to the banks. Here we are tonight saying we can't bring it, who's happier than a banker who's still gonna make a profit. Citizens are coming to see what happened in the morning, because only with us are the conditions of the environment changing and not only the interest rates, but the conditions are changing. As we heard before, the revolving loans that people have are also faced with changes and changes. Therefore, it causes insecurity in people, they do not know what will happen tomorrow, in which way they will fulfill their obligations. I repeat, he's living off his debt, so he's living on credit from month to month. One pays when people don't come, we know what's going on. Therefore, one attempt and not to take it as an attack I repeat to banks that are one of the most important, I will not say the most important mechanisms of the economy, no attack on banks, but I guess we all agree that we should limit this situation when in the troubles of society, community, citizens make profits and rich. And I won't be long, I hope we support that bill of ours. If we're not going to support him now, I'm convinced that we'll come before this House very soon with this bill because we saw that the policy of application, appeal, which would say assurances of friendly, collegiate, so don't, so be collegiate, so don't at least a month, two months, neoliberal, neoliberal profit-making and racing-jags for a profit that's legitimate, know nothing but regulation. And that's why the state has been called into this crisis situation, and that's why citizens expect us to bring legislation that will make it possible for them to become increasingly impoverished every day without saying what they're all exposed to, how many houses they go to the drum, how many real estates they're currently going to the drum, cars, etc. where people simply can't pay off their commitments anymore, and the profits to the banks in this situation are growing. And that's where someone said before whether a colleague, Maric, or someone, mentioned that a dead man's feather could no longer be found. Then I remember that good saying when the cargo had just learned that it no longer had to eat, that it could live without food, he was dead, I said. Therefore, this would end with a call to support the proposal for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49229	Thank you. Final review, on behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to thank you for participating in the debate and perhaps try to say what you would do in the second reading if you gave the consent to this bill in the first reading. As for the HDZ Club, the biggest obstacle is essentially fear that an increase in taxes or the introduction of interest taxes will mean that banks will move this to a higher rate of solution is very simple through the addition of this proposal. You'd see that we're not just talking about interest. We're talking about all the costs of dealing with loans and interest. Thus, it is impossible to cut off interest from other forms of compensation. We've already covered that. We were careful, so we suggested the first nine to 11 twenty percent, and then 40%, and 80%. Given your suggestions, we believe that we can write this progress differently. Well, since it's been over a year, I'd have been up to 20%, between 9 and 11, 11 percent, and over 13 percent. Therefore, who has more than 13% of the difference will pay one hundred fifty. So 50% more than you'd pick. Thus, the progressive rate always prevents manipulations and abuses. And, in fact, Mr. Maric's proposal was good enough to tell us that we should do something in the National Bank about the types of credit, so that the release of deposits should be different about the types of loans. Here on behalf of the SDP club, we will install types of credit into our tax rates, and we will tax less on loans on consumption, and far more loans on housing and liquidity loans, or I would say investment operations of interest to the Republic of Croatia. So anything is possible when you have different rates of tax, because you simply adapt your policy to the interests of how the banking system disciplines in part of responsibility to the Croatian economy. And that's why I don't think we need to be burdened. Through the second reading, we will install these suggestions and suggestions and I believe that this fear with such rigorous tax rates has been avoided and there is no doubt that this fear must not then be. I guess it became clear to all of us that more arguments from the government that went on that it couldn't double taxation after the experience with me would say the crisis tax was unquestionable and that the government was wrong, and that it was the cost of increasing the banking system. Is why? Because, through increased interest, they've made increased profits, and on the other hand, it's our fight for the bank to lower passive interest and go back to investment and get some more money going in the financial market, not in savings, because at this point we need it. Therefore, it is possible to eliminate these fears through a second reading, and this will be done by the SDP club with great satisfaction, all in order to show that fiscal responsibility is also needed. A bit of an interesting debate was Mr. Hrelje who said it, but the government is in charge of the banking system, there's a slightly more favourable interest than the economy, so it's hard to suggest it to the government. Okay, but fiscal power isn't just government. The fiscal power is also the Parliament. Therefore, if the government already has some kind of I would say different views on relations with the banking system because of the growing borrowing in this banking system, let us assume the responsibility of this fiscal policy and define in the Assembly this part of the relationship with the banking system. I would say we establish interest control to make business conditions of the economy more high in 2010. And what is important is also possible for citizens to finally feel that fiscal policy can do something for them. Or if all of this is unacceptable through special conclusions if your clubs propose it we can go on very simple taxation of the bank due to huge profits in the past year, now I'm going to show my accounts, so we're using the model of the Austrian government that has made it very clear to the banking system that we're the ones who are going to take away a part of your tax and a part of your contribution. Why? So here in the debate we said this Parliament increased on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I would say guaranteed savings. So, we went to the bank's benefit, so that's the risk we partially solved in that part. The government of the Republic of Croatia has now gone with the first measures in which it takes over some of the liquidity credit risks, and then taxed them with a part of the tax. Therefore, if you estimate that we do not go with the interest rate tax, we can also go with a tax which will be a contribution in view of last year's results but again related to the interest rate and type of deposit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49231	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49232	Proposal for a law on special interest tax, first reading, P.Z. No. 315, Proposer: SDP representative club. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting the conclusion that "The proposal for a law on special interest tax is not accepted." Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Score. This proposal was adopted by a majority of votes, 76 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 33 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49233	We are going to the next point - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, first reading, P.Z. No. 355 Proposer: A SDP representative club, the government, delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Law. You received reports in the session. On behalf of the promoter of the SDP's Club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49234	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. We in the SDP are a little sorry that we are discussing such an important law late in the evening because we hoped that one of the few political consensus that exists in Croatia is the one that refers to society based on knowledge, or science, or society of knowledge. According to what we have been listening to so far, we have gained the impression that all parliamentary parties are convinced that scientific research and the application of its results will allow Croatia a new development cycle, increase its competitiveness, and ensure personal corporate and national profits. All parliamentary parties, at least declaratively, are pushing towards Croatia's knowledge society as fast as possible, and then its seriousness, that is to improve scientific research activities, as well as all its assumptions. One of the main assumptions is the education system that needs to be educated by staff trained for further development of science, as well as the broad application of its results in the production of new products. Therefore, we in the SDP have a special social, political, financial, legislative and any other attention, and we believe that this should apply to all, should be dedicated to that part of the education system which educates high-tech experts, innovation and further development of science, therefore to higher education. In higher education, respected colleagues and colleagues, as well as in other parts of the educational system in Croatia, the situation would be much worse than the one we hear about in the public appearances of members, the current ruling coalition, or written reports by current Croatian officials. First of all, it is necessary to repeat the regrettable fact of the poor education of the Croatian population. According to the 2001 census, almost 15% of the population did not graduate from primary school or even have fewer, and there are around 11.5% of those highly educated and 7.5% of the population. We therefore believe that one of the strategic tasks of our education system is to raise the educational structure of the Croatian population. We were hoping that there was an agreement on this, something was going on with the introduction of compulsory high school. I hope that we will be enough, in fact, of courage, primarily in HDZ to ensure that constitutional changes are extended to compulsory education. This extension or extension of the obligation should be brought closer by increasing the personnel and infrastructure capacity of higher education through the integration processes of the university and the introduction of a new way of financing higher education, etc. ... financing, a constant increase in the education budget, reintegration of part of public institutes into a university from which they were completely unnaturally ripped back in '93. year, and we believe that the Bologna process was just an ideal opportunity for a real state shot, and the start of structural system change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Contrary to frequent thank-yous, this government has slowed down the increase in personnel and infrastructure capacities of earlier beginnings, completely halted the integration processes of the university, both internally functional integration and externally, reintegration of part of public scientific institutes, and completely unlawfully suspended the legal obligation of a new way of financing higher education, thus already mentioned... The increase in the budget for higher education, but also for education in general has grown slower than the increase or growth of the state budget, and real funds for higher education, but also for education in general in state budgets over the last few years has fallen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, not all of them could produce results, I repeat partly because of this reduction in funds, but also because of the irrational spending of money, but also because of the constant change of objectives. We entered the Bologna process very unprepared, and we missed many opportunities for structural change. My colleagues and colleagues, last spring's student rebellion then one of her smaller echoes to say so in the autumn, and a perfectly proper requirement for students for underprivileged free education requires me from all of us in politics, from us here in the legislative authority, but also in the executive power to consistently implement the declared goals of bringing us closer to the knowledge society. Free schooling or in this particular case, schooling deprived of fees is a logical consequence or should be a logical consequence of the Croatian consensus on the strategic meaning of education, as well as the necessity of repairing the qualification structure. In the last five years, the direction of development has just been the opposite. In higher education, more than double the number of students, i.e. their parents, who are forced to pay tuition, and the restoring ministry has completely abandoned the law of regulated supervision over the acquisition and spending of money from public higher schools, as well as the enrolment quotas that have frequently exceeded both human and infrastructure capacities of these same higher schools. That is why we propose this small one, but it seems to us that an important law that provides for regular students, therefore only for regular students the costs of tuition are fully subsidized from the state budget. So far there has been a legal provision that these costs have been subsidized in part or in full, while the state has financed the university enough and high schools for these to say the cold drive was not the need to introduce scholarships, as already mentioned by the reduction of funding funds for higher education simply forced universities to introduce scholarships, and the legal provision in the existing law made it possible for them, and we simply suggest that they return it. Secondly, since scholarships are not only a guarantee, the only important measure, we propose to add a new item that speaks of the need to actually establish new and more comprehensive student support systems from both the state and local self-government. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is almost impossible for me as representatives who are involved in education, that this may actually be the first and only chance that we are actually discussing the subject of equal access to higher education now, since this topic of equal access to higher education is as weak and unquality as it is in the debates, in reforms and in public policies in higher education both in Croatia and in the media, it seems to us that the impulse given by students here almost a year ago is due to their protest actions, in some way, and they may deserve attention, but they may also deserve a commendation because they have managed to ensure that we have started to debate it anyway. A few facts. Many Croatian universities today are heading towards commercialisation through the introduction of scholarships and by increasing the number of students paying these fees. In the period since '91. By 2004, the total number of students who paid, the total number of students increased by 82%, and the number of those who paid for their own study increased by as much as 814%. Today 56.7% of students pay some kind of tuition while it's '91. In the years, as many as 88% of students studied with the support of the ministry, i.e. that tuition paid only 12%. Not only did the number of students paying for the study increase, but the scholarships also increased dramatically. Today, the maximum amount of tuition for pre-graduate studies is moving depending on studies somewhere between 5,500 to 10 000 kuna. School fees for these postgraduate studies, i.e. for doctoral studies, are in tens of thousands of kunas. For those 40% of students who have to pay tuition, it is worrying that the maximum scholarships in Croatia are among the highest in Europe, although our standard is far below. In the EU, for example, higher amounts of tuition are charged in the Netherlands, England and Latvia alone than fees in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, it should be said that despite the global trend that scholarships are introduced, there are numerous examples of countries in Europe that do not yet charge tuition. These are the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Hungary, Norway, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden and Scotland, and among those countries there are even examples of countries that have abolished scholarships after they initially introduced them. And in this respect, the question of the existence of money for free education, the question of the existence of money for tuition, we think that it is not primarily a financial and accounting issue, but rather a political issue. If there is a consensus on the need for a society of knowledge, and I hope that there is and that this debate will not deprive me now, I think it is very clear that then we will choose a public policy that would advocate the abolition of tuition. In the event of the choice of such a public policy, this would be a clear sign that the state recognises the important role of higher education in the creation of a knowledge society through increased investment of public funds in the higher education system and that it intends to systematically address the problem of an insufficient number of highly educated citizens. Not only that, if we accept it, and I hope that all MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament will accept it, and since they are constantly declaring it, this would also show that we, as the Republic of Croatia, accept education primarily as a public good. As highlighted in the Bologna process in the powdered statement, not only as a private good. There are a few more moments when we talk about an easier approach to education that is somewhere a prerequisite to increase the number of highly educated people, to improve the qualification structure. It is necessary here to be honest and to say that this is not enough, so the suspension of tuition is not enough to solve all access to higher education for all, so other than the scholarship system it is necessary to create both quality and comprehensive student support systems because it has been shown by some research and some cases that they play a crucial role in increasing access to higher education. Therefore, our proposal is complemented, or new paragraph 5, in the existing article. Why is this important to colleagues and colleagues? According to available data and research in Croatia, there are clear indications that not everyone in Croatia today has the same access to higher education and that some individuals and individuals have been indirectly discriminated against from the outset because of their life opportunities despite perhaps the same potentials as other students who have successfully enrolled their studies. In fact, a clear correlation has been established between the higher income of the family and the higher chances of participation in higher education and it has also been found that for 18% of households the cost of studying is too high in relation to their income. It is also necessary to be honest and to say that the poor schooling policy that exists today in Croatia is not exclusively and the sole responsibility of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. There's a lot playing a part in the university itself. Namely, the linear system of scholarships introduced by our universities also showed social insensitivity because it directly binds the level of payment with grades. So the lower grades you get, the more you pay, regardless of socio-economic status or any other criteria. The fact is also that only a few colleges introduced the release of tuition payments based on social status and again, of course, related to the criterion of excellence. Excellence of course should be supported but it cannot, however, be the only or almost single or exclusive criterion. Here we reiterate this importance of equal approach, the importance of the higher education system itself, which must guarantee all those who are capable of accessing this system and that they can be educated. However, I would like to stress once again that the scholarship system itself will not solve all the problems unless the student support system is reformed. And we are therefore proposing the inclusion and units of local self-government in that system itself. Something about concrete costs. I am the cost of tuition, because the biggest objection to this bill was that it was very much costing and that there was no money for it. I am the cost of tuition for all high school institutions is calculated by Professor. Filipic of the Faculty of Economics in Split 254 million kuna. We've explained the bill's proposal that it's about 500 million kunas because we've included all these other support, so not just scholarships. It's colleagues and colleagues less than losing one of the big public companies. And maybe to bring this opening statement to an end somewhere, so the experience of countries that have experienced expansion economically and each other has shown that it is impossible without, without introducing special or additional measures to involve those, I say, non-traditional groups. If this happens in society, we have something that we in the SDP think is unacceptable, which is actually an unfavourable social reproduction where you have that children of highly educated urban parents are mostly the ones who go and finish colleges. Children of less educated parents and mostly from rural backgrounds that area of arrival to higher education is significantly narrowed down. Even that is not enough for this unwanted social reproduction to be abolished, but it is significantly reduced by the abolition of the scholarship system. Today, in Croatia we do not care about special measures and incentives for these special groups at all. Since scholarships are charged regardless of social status, we are assessing it with a really aggressive measure. Therefore, we propose to pass a law that would be subsidized by state budget funds for students of regular studies, which would be deprived of paying fees. We have no doubt that this law will be adopted here in the Croatian Parliament, given that the ministry's own officials are also the prime minister of commenting on their request for free education, have promised that such a measure will be adopted. At the very end, we sent this law to the parliamentary procedure at the beginning of June of last year. It's almost the end of February now. Already sometime last year, a task force was formed in the ministry in May to solve these problems. To this day we have no solution, no bill, no nothing. We are told in the government's opinion that our law is not good because it does not solve the old one extensively and that the government will prepare its proposal, which will solve its bill more comprehensively and systematically, if I may say so, somehow the universal refusal of the Government for all SDP proposals. However, practice teaches us and recent history shows that this has never simply happened and we hope that given the level of consensus reached on the importance of knowledge about the need to abolish fees, that this law may be a different example and that it will indeed receive support here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49235	Thank you. Experience teaches us that experience teaches us nothing. Legislative committees, education, science, culture? I'm opening a debate. Club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49236	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the club of the Croatian People's Party, we do not agree fully with your proposal. In fact, we would say that we would strongly support you if the state or government had done their part of the job and prepared the preconditions for one such law or decision. Free study. What studies, what registration quotas? Whether we're going to study the economy so it's going to be a great economy or all of our medicine, so we're going to be a great country with extreme opportunities to provide health services. What is the objective of higher education or education in general? To meet the needs of the Croatian economy and the development of this economy, meet the needs of Croatian health care, Croatian justice, Croatian military, police, education system, Croatian culture. Or our goal is to educate people for the Bureau of Labour, educate people for the German economy, for Austrian health care, to work at Swiss scientific institutes. Is Croatia's colleagues and colleagues rich enough to educate staff for the European labour market? These are the basic questions we should answer tonight. I'm sorry that this debate is being held so late, it turns out that we are running away from young people who need to hear our arguments and counterarguments for certain decisions that we need to make here very seriously. How do you assess the human needs? Well, based on the strategy of economic development. How to assess needs in social activities? I guess based on the strategy for the development of certain social activities. We are never even the framework of this strategy, let alone the content we were able to make as a basis for these decisions that we are talking about tonight. I remember when I was a young doctor in France, then I was surprised by their human health policy. I was particularly shocked by the specials. The state of France, the great state knew exactly how many years a doctor was going to, what specialties in retirement. She knew exactly how long it would take for specialists to produce. This applies to all other activities as well. That state knows exactly what it wants and where it wants to be in 15, 20 years. But unlike us, only qualitative factors decide. The best students choose their first specials when they finish their studies, do them and hire them, and there's a big race for the best. With our connection you get a job at KBC, KAC provides you with specialization no matter what kind of student you were. Good students will run out of specials and go to Germany to work. Which is unfair, incorrect, absolutely. It's just one example in my line of work. Such examples are likely countless. We should not only bring the teaching needs into line with what the Croatian economy requires and expects from these experts that we should produce through a system of secondary and higher education. We even need to rely on scientific projects for these needs. I've spoken more than once, and I'm going to say it again, I don't know which time. In European countries, the minister says in every period of work of a particular government, our priorities in science are you, you and you. Just supporting the development of these scientific disciplines of its economy, its pharmaceutical industry, its electrical engineering industry, etc. I come back when I was a young scientist, I had a little list because I was always interested in it, which were then priorities in the mid-'80s of France. Billoptic fibers, semiconductors, genetic engineering. They knew exactly what their electricity industry needed, their biomedicine, their pharmaceuticals, their most pro-pulsory economic branches. They told us exactly why we have to put billions there because we want to be one step ahead of the others. And that's what they did. We unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues tried the Education Committee and made even one roundtable, a colleague of Lugaric was on it. I'm sorry that the other colleagues who weren't here today were present. We've reached a dozen conclusions, we've been looking for the basis of these conclusions of the minister's reception to help the government together. He never took us in. That's not good. A colleague and colleague who was the purpose of that round table? We wanted to point out the need for the triangle of the economy, politics and education system to be perfectly coordinated. It has to be coordinated. Autonomy in the economy in education policy cannot work. Three autonomys are the same as anarchy. Trust me. We can appeal to university autonomy, but the state has to have a strategy so that we at the university know what framework to move in. That's what's happened to us so far. It hasn't even tried. We're not even against the possibility of breaking certain boundaries. If the state needs 120 doctors this year. Okay. We go beyond that with another 10, 15%, but then the state finances these 120, and those 10, 15% should really study for their own needs but let's get them scholarships because their parents' financial status can't be a limiting factor for these young people, it can't be. It can't be. A country that doesn't understand that is a poor country. Every young man who is able to study must be allowed, not but allowed, and helped to do so. I wouldn't debate much, but look at colleagues and colleagues reacting quickly to the country's uncertainty about the development strategy. We, who are from Rijeka, know well what happened because of the uncertainty of shipbuilding, are the best experts in the world, from South Korea to Rotterdam, you will find our engineers, our technicians, experts in this area because they have responded by believing that the state does not know, does not want and will not support them in their efforts to develop our shipbuilding industry. You'll find them everywhere. I meet them at airports all over Europe, asking where you come from. This one comes from South Korea, this one comes from Rotterdam, this one comes from Canada. They appreciate them, we didn't know how to keep them. That can't happen. If there is no development strategy, the same thing that happened to shipbuilding will immediately happen. My colleagues and colleagues, I do not have to assure you that tens of thousands of young educational people have left Croatia for the past 15 years. With them, billions of people have gone abroad and invested in their education, billions. They've gone west, I call it the non-refundable West. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49237	Thank you. SDP club Mr. Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49238	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is a sad fact that according to the 2001 census, only 7.5% of the population of the Republic of Croatia is highly educated. This is considered to have about 8 thousand doctors of science, of which 8 thousand doctors of science are over 50% over 50 years old so that the relationship between the economy and higher education is very weak or none. According to some statistics in Zagreb, for example in Zagreb and it is above the average of the Republic of Croatia 0.5% of the doctor of science works in some economic branches, of those located in Zagreb. One of the few political consensuss in the Republic of Croatia refers precisely to the achievement of a knowledge-based or science-based society, or how we like to say it is a knowledge society and this is the resulting strategic task of our education system, so the knowledge society cannot be achieved without raising the education structure of the Croatian population. Here, we had a debate this morning about the adoption of the NATO acquis, about the recognition of patents. Everything is wonderful and wonderful just asking who will be the bearer of these activities, especially in a few years. The improvement of the share of the higher education population in the Republic of Croatia should be achieved in a way that increases the staff and infrastructure capacity of higher education, to intensify processes, the integration of universities of Croatian and this should be done by introducing innovative new ways of doing business as well as the resulting new way of funding, in particular by continuing to increase the budget for education and it should also consider reintegration of at least those parts of public institutes into university teaching because these public institutes are in some way unnaturally ripped out of the university system even in 1993, for example by scientists from the Ruđer Bosković Institute or the Institute of Medical Research, the Institute of Physics is essentially left at will in any way engage in educational processes or not. There is therefore a significant human resources reserve that could improve the teaching of Croatian universities and universities and improve teaching to provide more students with the opportunity to study. However, an increased number of students naturally raises a number of other problems, which is a fine regulation of market mechanisms for students to focus on deficits, in the professions that will serve in the future in the Croatian economy. Another problem is the fact that education is not free and free education should be the logical consequence of the general Croatian consensus on the strategic importance of education as well as the necessity of repairing the qualified educational structure of the Croatian population. Unfortunately, over the last five years, the course of development has been exactly the opposite because in higher education and more than twice the number of students or better said their parents who have been forced to pay tuitions and the Resoring Ministry has almost completely given up the law of prescribed supervision of the acquisition and spending of public higher education funds and of registration quotas that often exceeded the staff and infrastructure capacities of the same higher schools and universities. As HINA transferred to the Ministry of Science and Education on 23 November 2009, therefore not so long ago, Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, while visiting the company "Croatia Control", referred to the Ministry of Science and Education and Resoring Minister certain issues related to the then-students' blockage of teaching in colleges, announcing that everything will be done to ensure free education for students who carry out their duties and said, quote: "We will do everything possible to ensure free education for all students who carry out their duties". Additional funds for education in undergraduate and graduate studies could only be found relatively easily if political will existed. Especially when we remember how, in time, millions of kunas have created a budget from the clear sky, unused money whose savings have not caused any more serious earthquakes in the ministries. The resolution ministry recently, the truth about Minister Primorac's mandate, said most of the school's costs are already falling on their backs as part of the cost of study is paid and borne according to the ministry's assessment of only 40% of regular students. And this funding that colleges earn from students was then characterized as a small part of the costs that the university freely has and invests in various things. Obviously, some colleges do not receive additional funding from the ministry and are therefore forced to pay material costs by fees. In other words, if the ministry paid colleges what they needed to pay could also be found for free schooling of Croatian students. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, the number of students is stagnating, and Croatia is dramatically lagging behind the developed world in the share of not only the highly educated population but also the Master and Doctor of Science. Almost nothing was done even in the rapid increase of postgraduate studies. This spring student rebellion, and following the proper request of students for free education, those students who regularly meet their obligations, requires the Croatian authorities, both legislative and executive, to consistently implement the declared goals of approaching the knowledge society. The increase in the higher education budget grew slower than the increase in the state budget, so again it was saving on science and higher education compared to some other ministries so that money often went unproductively to other purposes, rather than to the knowledge society. Therefore, due to the irregular spending of money as well as the constant change of objectives, the increase in the higher education budget did not give its objectives, especially since this increase was insufficient. If we were to compensate for this deficit, and with additional investment in higher education, all Croatian students who fulfil their obligations will have a free study, and the result of improving the education structure of the Croatian population would dramatically reflect with a rapid, positive impact on the knowledge society and on the potential growth of gross social products, but on the most qualitative segment of projects based on the knowledge and skills of Croatian future education generations. At this current pace, we will be even more lagging behind and at the moment we enter the European Union we will be at the very beginning of Europe at education, and we will be threatened with the danger that because of the free collapsing of goods, people, capital and services and what little quality personnel we still have left the Republic of Croatia because already many are not students motivated to study, especially at the more difficult universities of natural science and technical professions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49239	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I believe that the right to education is one of the fundamental human rights and that these rights should not be bid on anyone's behalf and for any reason. This right should not be placed on the mercy of the market, the more the right is governed by numerous both Croatian and international acts. The right to education must not depend on the depth of the pocket, and we should not turn knowledge into a commodity that has its own price and is bought by one who has more. The right to education should be made available to all and therefore we are in the SDP club in favour of free higher education. Just to remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that higher education must be available to all. But whether that is true or not, we are all witnesses and no one here has to convince anyone. In Croatia, therefore, there is an intense process of commercialisation of the education system, which is harmful not only to young people, not only to their families but also to society in the long term. In Croatia, education, higher education was once free. For you, my studies were free. In their protests last year, students sought exactly what we once had – the right to free study. And the trend in funding higher education is more than clear. What's the state's intensity is more than clear. The state has shown a very clear intention to cost public services, but we see that this is not just a matter of higher education. We see this, and for example health care, shifts more and more to the burden of citizens, although these same citizens already pay taxes to cover public service costs. In fact, it is a gradual matter, I would say privatisation and commercialisation of public services, where services are unfortunately converted into goods that are bought and sold like any other goods on the market. For us at the SDP club, it's personally unacceptable to me. We have heard from the presentation on behalf of the promoter, we rarely boast that the number of students has been in the period since '91. It's increased by 82% here. But it's really hard to hear the fact that in the same period, the number of co-financing students, or funding their study, increased by 814%. It's in my opinion a scary number that should be worrying us. Today, therefore, almost 60% of students pay their education, i.e. pay some kind of tuition, although in the meantime, education taxes, which have not been reduced at all for education. So, the parents of those students who enroll in college and pay me actually seem to me like, yes, I don't think so, but they're paying me the same thing twice. On the other hand, we can ask ourselves how much the quality of teaching has grown by changing the higher education system from free to the one paid every year by an increasing number of students. No, it hasn't increased quality. The introduction of scholarships did not go systematically towards improving higher education in Croatia, but rather as I said transferring part of the cost of higher education from country to country. As far as the tuition is concerned, as we have heard, there is an unequivocal trend in increasing their amounts, and they have increased dramatically in recent years. And I believe that there were no yearly and last year's, excuse me if it wasn't for last year's student protests I believe that tuitions would continue to increase. Of course, commercialising higher education is not some Croatian specific instrument, but despite the global trend in the introduction of tuition, there are numerous examples of countries in Europe that still do not charge tuition. And colleague Lugaric said what countries these are, but be careful there are even countries that have introduced scholarships and higher tuitions. However, they were abolished after their time, after certain times such as Scotland, such as Ireland and such as Hungary, when they realized what could actually be their consequences. We have examples of Estonia and Belarus that have also understood the importance of investment in education, and for Estonia we know that today is the country with the fastest growing economy in the world. So, when we discuss free higher education, I don't think we should be distracted from the idea that scholarships are not the only cost standing in front of students or their parents. There are a number of other expenses from books to transportation, housing and nutrition especially if the student goes to study in another city. Even when he stays in his hometown, we must not ignore the fact that the student remains a burden to his parents who must support him until he starts to practice himself. Unfortunately, the trends so far show that the work of tuition will not slow down, so we can ask ourselves where this is taking us all together, where the commercialization of education takes us. So, more and more of those who pay tuition and tuition are getting bigger and bigger. I think it will lead to the ability to study only those who can afford it, so the richer and the ones who want to, and if they can get into any debt slavery at all, raise a loan so that they can study. Of course it can't be in the interest of society. In the interest of the whole society should be to study those who are the most capable, who are the most diligent, and not the richest. Of course, there is a legitimate question as to how we intend to achieve 25% and more and highly educated by commercialising higher education. I'd like someone to give me an example of a country that has managed to achieve a large percentage of highly educated commercialization of education. I'd really like to know who that went after. As far as I know, nobody. Today, the student on average needs about 30,000 kunas a year, and that figure will only grow according to plans and universities and ministries. Well, then, there's really no need to be surprised by some kind of black forecast that we'll meet in the near future with imports of experts coming from countries like India and China. When asked if the state has in the budget money for free education my answer without overthinking is of course to have it. It's a matter of redistributing money. If there's no education, then what's he got money for? Free education would cost the state we heard about 250 to 300 million kuna a year, which is only 0.2% of the state budget. So if we compare the amount that would have to be allocated for free education, I think he's minor. Compares to compare that 250 million, or 300 to some investments that I'm not saying were unnecessary. But only the handball halls in Croatia cost nearly 2 billion kuna for comparisons. More than 400 million kunas are the cost of peacekeeping missions, over 300 million kunas are given to support religious communities. I'm saying it's okay again, but if there's one for it it has to be for higher education. If we opted for a policy for all available higher education, this would mean that the state recognises the important role of higher education in the creation of a knowledge society by investing more in public funds, and intends to systematically address the problem of an insufficient number of highly educated citizens. And I think that would show that the state accepts education primarily as a public good, not as a private good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49241	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Introductoryly, my esteemed colleague, Marija Lugarić, listed several data showing at which point the Republic of Croatia is in terms of highly educated and what else we have, when I say we think of the people of the Republic of Croatia uneducated and... It's only about 11%, or slightly more than 10%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I come from a county where it's almost halved, it's about six and a half percent, about six and a half percent. So I can say that we are even more interested in this story of free higher education, since we are from an area where the economic conditions of life are very difficult. But like most of us here in the Croatian Parliament, I am one of those who has been educated for free. I believe that most colleagues who were lucky and had the opportunity to study at one of the Croatian or Croatian universities in the former state did it for free, so they did not pay tuition, they were paying for the part of their stay, so that part of their life there. What did we have to do? All we had to do was study regularly, take exams, finish year after year, etc. I think even the current generations of our children, some of us and our grandson deserve at least the same right. Of course, at one time high education was free, and today something else is quite different. Now here is the right to higher education, as my predecessors have pointed out on several occasions, is also one of the elements of diversity, the social diversity that should not be, and that is that those who have the financial resources that are so much richer have the opportunity to get high education, those who do not have it will not be able to do so. However, I believe that higher education must not be a privilege, not only because of people, but mainly because highly educated people are the only ones who can, at least in that creative, creative part, encourage the development of the Republic of Croatia and contribute not only to the direction of the European Union to join and be one of those of the European Union, but also to be a full member of the European Union. It is already pointed out that today most students, when I say most of them then think more than 50% in a certain way of paying some form of tuition or all that is related to the area, which can be called tuition. These scholarships range from several thousand kunas to several tens of thousands of kunas. Of course, this is partly the consequence of private entrepreneurship and higher education, but part of it is to say certain examples of inventiveness that we also heard here in the Assembly, certain higher schools in terms of freeing money from those who want to be educated, who want to study. We heard of the example of this international summer school, the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, and how it all went. But we must not look at these negative examples, and then we must justify the interest of higher universities or the interest of the ministry or the interest of the government in charging for higher education. We like to compare very often, here and today there have been several such comparisons with countries in transition, so it is with other European and world countries, and if in some things we want to compare, let us try to compare in terms of investment in higher education precisely with countries in transition, precisely with the mentioned Estonia, precisely with the Czech Republic, exactly with Poland. We've seen and heard more than once that it's a Polish state that at these moments of recession and crisis is quite good about the economy. Among other things, and because they recognized that higher education was one of the most important things in the development of the state, they really invested everything they could in doing and developing Poland. Is that the only one? Of course not, but it's just as important. We often compare ourselves with the ideal in Europe, with the Baltic states, Sweden, Finland, etc., and there is a case that investment in higher education is one of the most important investments. Here on the other hand, we see, that's what my colleagues mentioned earlier, before this we discussed the point of the agenda that concerned interest in banks. The banks also entered the area, student loans. And that's where the interest is going to grow, and that's the area. So in that area, they found their own field where they could make money. And here my predecessor mentions an ugly phenomenon, which is so-called. debt slavery. So that we will have young debtors and young debt slaves who will not be able to repay due to student loans, because unfortunately, too, much of the completed students are unable to get a job. But I ask if we should therefore stop with education, higher education, and should, therefore, say, resolve that doubt between free or paid schooling by reducing the number of students. We're witnessing students' quotas shrinking from year to year. I don't think that's a good way to go, because eventually some money may be saved, but there will certainly be a smaller number of people who, with their knowledge, with their inventiveness, with their ability to engage in those movements that are in the world, can help this country get out of a difficult situation and finally live right. I come from a field of technical science, like medicine, like electrotech, like my colleagues in physics. We understand that America and all the other highly developed countries in that field are going very, very fast. But how will we get involved in what they do? Japan, Korea, etc. How will we get involved in this if we cannot educate people who are capable of language, in terms of information, etc., we get involved and have a fundamental education. I know that our financial ability isn't even close to these countries that we talked about. However, this does not mean that we have to put these criteria down to the maximum in the field of higher education and put everything on the backs of those who study, or better said their parents, and thus endanger the social situation of our population. Those who regularly study, which means they fulfil all the obligations that the university imposes on them, must be rewarded by not having to pay for what they do or what they study. And so I support this law in every way and ultimately comes from my party and I'm glad that there's me as an agent in all of this, and I think this is a moment where we should think about some cold heads. So that the question of young people is easy, and their further development is easy to stop, but it is necessary to make additional efforts and to accept that this is the moment when it is necessary to realize that only in this situation is the economic, social and other situation that only by releasing the payment of any tuition for regular students can we allow higher education in Croatia to be brought to that level to which it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49243	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Sonja Simunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49244	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague, Heffer, with your argument, you've moved me to one replica. I also find the government’s response that there is not enough funding for higher education totally inconceivable, unacceptable, even to me it seems irresponsible, irrational and actually incomprehensible. And now why am I saying that? So today's students and today's youth, today's generations, are actually the foundations of this Croatian state, these are the foundations of our future. These are future prime ministers, ministers and drivers of economic activity. These are future doctors, they are future engineers, builders and politicians who will lead this country. Is it not in our best interests to create the best and the best fit? Is it not our interest to create a very good foundation today so that tomorrow our country and our country will be as beautiful as possible, to live in as much prosperity as possible, to go in one direction and actually get out of this crisis? And this response that there's no money is totally leading us in one wrong direction, leading us to a new crisis, which is moral, which is social, which is economic. Higher education seems to be a priority one for which there must always be money in both war and peace and crisis. I think it's the responsibility of all of us. I think that today very few of us are even aware of this situation and I don't know how much we are aware of how much we really are today, right now we're deciding on the future of our country and all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49245	Answer to the replica Mr. Agent Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49246	The esteemed colleagues have no money, we all know that. The question is where to find them. Money should be sought, we simply saw in the 2010 budget debate that for the regular business of Croatian universities, the amounts that are at the level of 2009, slightly above 1%, 2%, except for the University of Osijek, I discussed that and then. But also money needs to be sought where there are, whether it's public enterprises, whether it's something else, but regardless, it's a matter of priority. It's a matter of priority. Priority must be young educated people and the creation of a high education base for the development of the state. So, I agree with a colleague who said it was a matter of redistributing financial resources, so we're going back to the budget issue, we're going back to the question of all those budget items, and we're just going back to the beginning of the story at the beginning of the year about the budget. And I advocate, of course, that through redistribution, funds are provided to high schools because it is only possible to ensure free schooling. Because you can't provide free schooling unless high schools have a basis for work, you don't have enough funding. We understand that. But if there is a strategic commitment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the development of higher education, then the money can be found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49247	Thank you. State Secretary Želimir Janjic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49248	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected presidents of the proposings, esteemed MPs and MPs. Allow me to take a brief look at this indication by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal to amend and supplement this law with a final proposal. So, one thing's for sure. We have been telling the public for a long time about how we want to become a society of knowledge and how we have a general consensus on how to do so, but believe in this whole debate, listening to all of you who participated in the debate, I couldn't conclude that from this debate, this really meant that we were talking about some consensus. Because we had the opportunity to hear the mass of data and the claims that I would say are partly incorrect and partly questionable. To go from the very beginning when it comes to the data of the educational structure is not the most accurate data. Of those who have completed primary school, that data is a little bit worse, and when it comes to the highly educated data, it's a little bit better than what we've had a chance to hear here. The same way when you mentioned the data on the committed funds in the state budgets over the last few years, it was not exactly accurate. Furthermore, I expected some information to be mentioned here. So in the last 5, 6 years, a new 3.5 thousand employees have entered the higher education system. So that's what we have in our universities, in our institutes, and that's a fact, and you all really know that it is. Maybe it wouldn't be a waste, say, to mention that fact. Furthermore, it may not have been too bad to mention the fact that there are other things that are important. I'm not going to say how important they are, but they are. So many times we've had a chance to hear that students are sitting on the floor. But don't lose sight of that in the last little over 6 years, I'll remind you that there are no representatives of Doric just when he talks about Rijeka, that 3.5 billion kuna has been invested in building the campus's university capacities. So, Rijeka, if I'm not mistaken for the respected representative Jerkovic about 500 million kuna, we talked about it there at the end of 2003, that's how it started, and then it continued with the others and with Osijek, it continued with Zagreb, it continued with Pula, etc. Furthermore, if you want the last 5, 6 years, a few new universities have been founded ask some of those students who are gravitating these parts, so those around Vukovar, those around Knin, those around Gospić, how much does it mean to them about Požega that I don't talk about who it was before. So we're not talking about these roles that are also evident. Of course you should say, we can accept if there's money for sports halls, if there's money for religious communities that doesn't have it. But if we compare it a little bit and look at how much it's invested here, then maybe that's not exactly how we should be able to figure it out. Not if you want, maybe at least we should mention, if we want a consensus if we want something in good faith, maybe we should talk about one segment. Let's say the positive effects of implementing the Bologna process, perhaps something that is positive for the introduction of external evaluation into the Croatian school system, perhaps something positive about changes in vocational education, so I will now remind you here because it was said here that we never combined that triangle of politics, education, economy. Let's just have one detail, you're witnesses. The passed Law on Professional Education here unanimously in Parliament all were for him. So that's politics. Education has begun to implement this law called for the economy, we have 13 sectoral councils, and now we are in front of 13 professional curriculas. So it's not like it never happened. Or if you want me to mention what we're working on right now. The truth is the commission was formed on 23 May 2009 as Mrs Lugaric said on behalf of the promoter. That commission might not say it could be even wider. But in this commission there are representatives of all Croatian universities, all seven, and I must especially stress the representatives of students and all seven Croatian universities are in this commission. This commission that we have then appointed, we will not talk about that there has been a change at the head of the ministry, that it has been a time that has taken place and summer when the Parliament has no longer met, so there has been a summer break, etc. It doesn't have to be any excuse. But this office is respected representatives of the proposer at the very end. And I'm going to announce now. So on 8 and 9 March in Bego Razloj, all seven rectors of all Croatian universities will meet who will pass the draft once more, and immediately afterwards, this legislative regulation for which they are in charge will only be a broader procedure than it is here in this proposal, will be given for public debate. And expect in the Croatian Parliament a debate on these important solutions, and we will certainly consider what you have written and explained in this proposal changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49249	Thank you. And final review on behalf of the motionary, Ms. Zastava Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49250	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The last six months seem almost every week to me to be one of us SDPs when we discuss and talk about education, then strongly advocates discontinuity in education policy. We've assessed what former Minister Primorac did to the poor. I'm glad to hear from the HDZ ranks at least informally that same grade. However, we hoped that there would be no discontinuity in one thing, which is the agreement that education must be made available to all, that education should not damage those who have less money or whose parents are less educated or simply come from socially poor opportunities. And this debate today between a colleague and a colleague I'd say maybe a day of truth, and on the other hand a day of great sadness. No one in HDZ has dared or felt the need to say a single word about this law, no one in HDZ has dared or felt the need to say a single word to those thousands of students who last spring and blocked teaching this fall for months, to the same students that the police were referring to outside the ministry building. I don't know if you're just embarrassed to say that you don't support the SDP proposal, that you don't support the proposal to abolish fees for regular students, or that you simply don't have any attitude or policies. And I'm really sorry that we came into a situation that instead of discontinuity in a poor, unprofessional, under-thinking policy we got actually discontinuity in that attitude we thought maybe a little bit and naively that it was a national consensus. And of course there's all those declarations about the knowledge society, about how it's important to us, that we want to work in the water. And then of course you can't be credible about it. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, the information you spoke in your presentation is correct, but they have nothing to do with our bill. It is true, for example, that a lot has been invested in politic development, that a lot of primary university has been established, but it is also true that this network of higher universities has never been discussed, and it is true that it is simply a humane system, so to speak, which teaches at all high schools is not in correspondence with the number of institutions, that we actually have one weighting that is more of a social category than it is serving some kind of development of science. That's something we're gonna need to discuss. However, it is also true that most of these students are paying their tuition and we are talking about it here today, not that we have institutions, but that they are simply not available to everyone or that they are only available to those who have enough money or who are going to raise loans or something that they could possibly be educated at all. It's about the ministry's commission. An old story is known when there is a problem that then does not want to be solved to form a commission or working group that will surely come through the fastest time with a brilliant solution that will solve all problems. My colleagues and colleagues, some of the other MPs spoke. We are constantly waiting for some better time in education, waiting for someone to do something else, to bring this or that strategy, to bring this or that prerequisite. This situation that we can do things in education when there's only better time falling into the water at the time when we realize better times don't come. And while we wait for others, others are progressing, and that gap between us and developed Europe, which in that zero position was great by our waiting, our inaction, our poor actions are getting bigger and our people are, of course, less educated, less competitive, our economy is less developed. I just want to say a few more sentences here. I don't think we can idealize some things and free study really doesn't exist like there's no free schooling. However, our citizens through taxes finance certain public services, the salaries of teachers are paid, the salaries of teachers are paid, buildings are paid no matter where they come from. And it's totally like a crisis tax, tax tax. It is unfair for those services that citizens already pay to demand another and additional payment in terms of free study, in terms of paying tuition. So what we advocate is that regular students be deprived of paying tuition, so it's free of charge for them. However, this is indeed a huge cost for the state budget I repeat if we want to do so for many other things and more expensive things of money we can find money and even in our recession budgets. We have repeated several times, I feel the need to say it several more times because it is simply unacceptable for us in the SDP to have the social status of parents as a limiting factor for young people who cannot study for it. It's just a fact today. Studies conducted only in Croatia have shown that I repeat children of less educated lower-income parents less often and are less successful in the study. And we literally reproduce the social inequality that already exists. And maybe three final sentences. The right to the education of colleagues and colleagues I think it is a great thing for my colleague, Jerkovic, to say it does not depend on the depth of the pocket. Today, unfortunately, it depends. A real education like that can't be a slave, as much as, after you bought the pot sold. Education is also a way to experience it and finally start talking about it both in the Croatian public and in Croatian politics as a public good, as well as in the benefit of an individual and, consequently, it also benefits society as a whole and economically, socially and in any other way. I hope that given the stated declarations that this bill will be consensually accepted here in the Croatian Parliament, I hope that tomorrow's vote will not deny us and I hope that this may not be a big debate, the disenfranchisement is the consequence that some at 8 p.m. or at 9 p.m. it was more important to have a good time and end the sooner session than to discuss what is really important, and I hope that the law will be adopted. The law is in the first reading, and on behalf of the promoters, I can say that all those remarks that were true now are small but we are open to those between the conversations that you will deliver to us to make a really good law and that indeed one great injustice that was done, which I did not even have, which I was younger or you who were older, who did not pay for the study when we studied and which now pays more than 50% of Croatian students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49251	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49252	Thank you very much. Well, I would like to correct Mrs. Lugaric's incorrect claim that she has made several incorrect allegations, so where she said it is incomprehensible that HDZ did not agree with SDP's views, that we are inconsistencies, that it cannot understand that we do not understand that students today should have free schooling. Mrs. Lugaric, the Croatian Democratic Community absolutely supports the Ministry of Science programme and when conditions are obtained, not only will students have free education but we will again safely introduce free textbooks and transports, but you obviously do not understand in the SDP that this is not the time today and that this time should wait. Please, so don't do politics. We've already several times... accept the right or the situation in which we live today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49253	Thank you. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Lugaric said no one in HDZ supports regular students. It's incorrectly absolute. However, we are very supportive, some should study and be regular, etc. But we don't support endless study, that's absolutely clear right. But one thing is, it's necessary for everyone, so absolutely, it's necessary for all specific simulations. You're getting on, dear fellow, in all areas of education, health care and everything to promise this or that, and that's not credible. It is necessary to simulate very clearly how much it costs and how it continues. It's the easiest thing to promise children so tell kids you have the right to this or that, but to be irresponsible and to study endlessly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49255	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49256	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lugaric, you have said something that is not true. We're not afraid to discuss this, and we can look at you and discuss this, but I want to warn you of just one piece of information. When Minister Flego, our colleague, was Minister of Education, do you know how many students paid their tuition? 60% because 60% of them, Comrade Lugaric, had to study according to personal needs. That tuition is paid. That's one thing. Secondly, have you done an analysis and it is incorrect that the protesters of the students you were talking about are just not supporting them. No, co-workers, have you done an analysis of who the Protestants are? I talked to them, with regular students, good students. It's the ones who don't finish regular colleges.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49257	And Mr. Representative Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49258	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lugarić, you have made education available only to those who have money and children of lower educated people and the weaker property to study. That's just not true. I don't know how much work you have, I don't think you have much. Have you ever lied budget, any municipal, any city, any county? ... Whose research, yours? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, we don't live in socialism, colleague Lugaric. That's what socialism used to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49259	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final proposal of the Law on elementary and secondary textbooks, and then around 12.30 would be a vote on all the points discussed so far on these four working days and the conclusion of this session. The conclusion of this session and then one for three weeks, two and a half would prepare for further work victories.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-25-0.u49260	We move to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, first reading, P.Z. No. 355, Proposer: SDP representative club. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the conclusion that "The Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Work and Higher Education is not accepted." Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Score. This proposal was adopted by a majority of votes, 77 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 33 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the session and with the announced agenda point - Final draft law on textbooks for elementary and high school, second reading, P.Z. No. 474 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This bill will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the National Minority Representatives' Club, the Legislative Committee, the Education, Science and Culture Committee and by Zdenka Cuhnil. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Minister of Science, Education and Sports Mr Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
