ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President Vladimir Seks, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Based on a statement by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on joint action in the EU membership negotiations process, I would like to review on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia the progress made in the negotiating process reached in the period from 1 January to 30 June 2010 during the chairmanship of the Kingdom of Spain to the EU Council. As we know, the foreign minister of the then Kingdom of Spain visited Zagreb on 2 June of this year on his return from the meeting, an important meeting held in Sarajevo between the EU member states and the Southeast European countries that marked the 10th anniversary of the Zagreb summit, which we know was held on 24 November 2000, which really set the European perspective of all the countries in the region. His visit to Zagreb enabled the Spanish presidency to open its last intergovernmental conference on 30 June this year and the last 3 remaining open chapters in the negotiation process. Chapter 8 relating to the Competition, Chapter 23. – Justice and fundamental rights and Chapter 31 relating to foreign security and defence policy. The conference was indeed a decisive milestone in the 5-year negotiation process, which brought the Republic of Croatia closer to achieving its goal, which is the end of the negotiation process and of EU membership itself. During this reporting period, three meetings of the Intergovernmental Conference opened on 5 chapters, Chapter on Fisheries No. 13, Chapter 27, and this 3 I mentioned earlier. Also, negotiations in 3 negotiating chapters, the Chapter on the free movement of goods, public procurement and Chapter 16 on taxes have been provisionally closed. Thus, the Republic of Slovenia welcomed the end of the Spanish Presidency with all the open chapters, those that were negotiated at that time, so 33 that had passed the so-called procedure. Analytical examination of legislation and with 20 provisionally closed chapters. In parallel, intensive work has been continued in this reporting period to meet all the criteria and obligations arising from the accession negotiations and the Republic of Croatia has fully met the preconditions for the closure of the additional 3 chapters. At that point, it was about Chapter 4. – Free movement of capital, Chapter 14. – Transport policy and Chapter 12. – Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policy. As we know, Chapter 12 has been provisionally closed at the very beginning of the current Belgian EU presidency, which was July 27th this year, and Chapter 4, so the free movement of capital and 14. – Traffic policy closed at the last meeting of the Intergovernmental Conference on 5 November at the level of deputies. I would also say that at that meeting, the Intergovernmental Conference also closed Chapter 34 concerning institutions, which has been particularly welcomed since it regulates all the institutional aspects of Croatia's accession to the EU, and in particular Croatia's representation in all Union institutions. Therefore, the number of votes in the Council and the membership of representatives in the European Parliament and, of course, representatives of Croatia in the commission and the court. During this reporting period, the Republic of Croatia has met 88 criteria per chapter, representing a total of two-thirds of the 127 criteria set for opening and closing negotiating chapters. As a responsible future member of the Union, Croatia also has an obligation to implement continuously all obligations arising from the common position of the Union and the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia after the provisional closure of the chapter. Therefore, during this reporting period, the European Commission has started to monitor the progress of the Republic of Croatia and in the provisionally closed chapters of the negotiations, assessing that Croatia has in principle fulfilled its obligations in all chapters and following their closure. The reporting period also marked the adoption of amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in June of this year, which specify the constitutional and legal basis for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and create assumptions for the effective functioning of Croatia's future in the Union. Just thanks to the amendments to the Constitution, a premise was created for the closure of Chapter 32 relating to financial supervision and was closed at the beginning of the Belgian presidency on 27 July at the then intergovernmental conference. I would also like to mention that, during this reporting period, a group of Croatian experts who have started working on the draft Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, also exists on the part of the Member States of the European Union, which is a clear indicator of the high stage of negotiations, or before the very completion of the negotiation process. The relations between Croatia and the Union have developed at several more complementary levels during this period. In doing so, I would like to mention the continuation of the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement which we have signed since 2001, the continuation of the political dialogue within the Stabilisation and Association Council and the implementation of the priorities and recommendations from last year at that time of the European Commission's progress report, and of course the accession partnership and the application of the pre-accession assistance programme. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to use this opportunity to thank you for the support you have continuously provided to the Government and the negotiating team in the process of joining the Republic of Croatia in the membership of the European Union. A large part of the obligations arising from the negotiations relate to the area of harmonisation of legislation. The Croatian Parliament also has a really key role to play in the accession process. I am pleased to point out that the Republic of Croatia has fulfilled its main obligations in harmonising legislation with the acquis of the European Union. This year, the Croatian Parliament adopted 12 laws that are a prerequisite for closing the negotiating chapters, a legislative plan for EU entry negotiations currently envisions the adoption of all five more laws, of which 2 needs to be adopted by a series of amendments to the Constitution, and all with the aim of successful completion of the negotiations process. I point out that most of these laws refer to the successful reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption, as conditions for closing Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is fully aware of the scope and complexity of the work ahead of us but is also ready to make every effort to complete this historic process for Croatia in the most part by the end of this, and in those most demanding areas in the first half of next year during the Hungarian Presidency of the European Union. Of course, the most demanding tasks ahead of us are precisely in two key chapters, which are chapter relating to competition and chapter relating to the judiciary and fundamental rights. We believe that by successfully implementing reforms, we will meet the challenges of signing the accession treaty in a timely manner during the following year, so 2011. After several years of intensive negotiations, as we draw closer to the target line of our preparations for membership in the European Union, during a period ahead of us will pay particular attention to the implementation of the communication strategy that the Government has since 2006 and all other forms of information to citizens about today's European Union, the results of the negotiations and the concrete benefits of membership for Croatian citizens. In this process we appreciate the important role of the Croatian Parliament and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I believe that further implementation of the reforms will successfully end the negotiations and become the 28th member of the European Union, following ratification in the national parliaments of the Member States. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63710	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration? The Development and Reconstruction Committee? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative's club, Mrs. Tanja VRbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63711	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Secretary of State. Today we are considering after 5 months of the end of that period, the course of the negotiating process of the Republic of Croatia towards the European Union during the period of the Presidency of the Kingdom of Spain to the European Union and this was the period from 1 January to 30 June of this year. In those six months of the Spanish Presidency, they were crucial to many crucial but crucial months for our negotiations. During this period, the greatest progress has been made in the key political chapters and the most complex and worst knots of our negotiating path have begun to be involved. We have been aware from the very beginning of the negotiations that the worst job will be at the very end of our negotiation process, but I believe that no one thought that there would be certain uncertainty as happened during this very period that we are talking about today. The key day in this semester order that we are considering today was precisely the last day of that period on June 30th when all the remaining negotiating chapters, which carry key issues behind them, were opened at an intergovernmental conference, to a successful conclusion of the whole negotiation process. During the reporting period, the negotiations were opened in 5th and temporarily closed in 3 negotiating chapters, whereby the Republic of Croatia welcomed the end of the Spanish Presidency with all the open chapters 33, which passed the screening process, and with 20 provisionally closed chapters, and three other negotiating chapters were prepared for temporary closure on our part. During this reporting period, three meetings of the intergovernmental conference on Croatia's accession to the European Union, one at the ministerial level and two at the replacement level, at which Croatia opened negotiations in the fisheries, the environment, and chapters of competition, and the judiciary and fundamental rights and foreign defence policy, on 30 June, and provisionally closed negotiations in the chapters of freedom of movement of goods, and in the chapters of public procurement and taxes. The reporting period has continued to meet the closing criteria, and relevant documents have been submitted in the European Union to comply with the closing criteria for 6 more chapters in all other chapters establishing the closure criteria have been made to make progress in meeting them in order to close them as soon as possible. Among those chapters were those previously covered by a certain blockade, which one member state blocked with its veto, but there were also those chapters that were previously underworked and still needed to be successfully temporarily and shut down a lot more, much work. Here at the SDP Club, first of all, we mean the chapter of the competition where we need to finish the hard work of restructuring our shipbuilding. We have made some mistakes here because in negotiations we have misnegotiated certain terms of adjustment and left too little time for this huge structural work. But you should be aware that the government has the responsibility to leave behind the topic of shipbuilding, knowing that in a few months it will be necessary to end the job of adapting with European practice and European regulations. This huge problem has been hidden under the carpet for years, leaving for the end, an end which unfortunately coincided with a severe economic crisis in the world shipbuilding sector where it is almost impossible to find serious investors in the sector, and we fear that the shipyards will be torn apart and sold in parts. We don't think that would be good. With regard to this chapter, we still have to strengthen the Competition Agency, we know that on our agenda and this Assembly of the current agenda we have yet to discuss, amend and adopt the statutes of that agency in order to ensure its full independence, and we need to seriously implement a plan to reduce state aid in the shipbuilding sector by taking care of its survival. Negotiations with the EU must not be a front for sloppyness and verse in this important sector of our economy, whose resolution will significantly determine the Croatian economy in the future. But in the SDP club, we mean in particular chapter 23 – the judiciary and fundamental rights. Finally, the opening of this chapter was in itself a very positive fact. But we must not get carried away with the very opening of the chapter because we are expected concrete results as confirmed by the European Commission's representative in the Republic of Croatia, Mr Vandoren himself, when presenting the progress report a few days ago here in the Parliament. The constitutional legal framework guaranteeing independence and depolitisation of the judiciary has been amended, a change in the political climate has been made to address the huge problem of corruption, but we at the SDP club believe that this must not be just a passing phase or a change in cosmetic nature. The fight against corruption must become our daily life, it must change the mental set of officials who act as the most state and local responsibilities who need to take their job as extremely responsible and difficult, and not take their job as an opportunity to take care of themselves and their loved ones. These should be permanent changes and not for the sake of the EU but for our own sake, because the citizens of this country deserve responsible officials and representatives at all levels. The weed is corruption at all levels, it needs to be eradicated, and it is a long-term job and a concrete path in which we hope to step in permanently. Every day we can track the extent of corruption and how severe malfeasance and theft are at the expense of the state budget. But not everything should remain just on the headlines of the daily newspaper and early morning arrests. The EU, but also our citizens, are primarily expecting the end of the exposed principled affairs, regardless of their outcome, is expected to end to the powerful verdicts that will bring an independent judiciary without any political and public pressure. We expect and wish for the permanent responsible behavior of all. We also have to welcome the formation of a new State Judicial Council calling, which is also crucial for the depolitisation of the judiciary, and we in the SDP stress that this job should be completed without any political pressure. In the SDP club, we also believe that in addition to this above-mentioned and huge job of informing citizens about what it means to become a full-fledged member of the EU, what this membership means and what it brings, so that citizens and citizens themselves in a referendum can decide on the future of a country where they are supreme sovereign. Europe's communication citizens is a field that is only now more serious to work on. We at the SDP club and this way invite all subjects of political and public life, including the media, to contribute to the correct and concrete informing of the conditions of membership. And let me repeat our firm position and belief that reforms and changes in Croatian society should be done for the sake of ourselves, our citizens and citizens, and not for the EU in itself. It is not only the goal of becoming a full member of the Union, but it is very important what kind of member we will be, what standard our citizens will be, how independent our judiciary will be, our economy will be able to be able, be competitive and productive. It's all important for our own sake, and nobody's gonna help us if we don't help ourselves in the first place. Finally, the SDP club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63712	Thank you. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63713	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS and HSU club will support this report. A report covering the period from January to July 2010, so one time period for which expectations of the negotiation process were very high. The chairmanship of the Kingdom of Spain immediately after the mutual Croatian-Slovenian signing of the arbitration agreement, and a major progress was expected in the negotiation process, which unfortunately did not take place. During the chairmanship of the Kingdom of Spain, even three intergovernmental conferences were held showing the country's readiness to meet Croatia and provide a form for faster and more effective negotiating. But productivity in the number of open and closed chapters does not follow the opportunities given to us. In the government's report, we see that indeed all the remaining negotiating chapters are open, which shows us that Slovenia has really withdrawn its reserves, but few closed negotiating chapters indicate that the process of meeting the criteria in Croatia flows quite slowly and that the three then closed negotiating chapters were freedom of movement of goods, public procurement and taxes. The necessary reforms of the public procurement system and the commitments made to reform the VAT system on the day of entry into the EU were only part of our legal and administrative work. At the time of the Spanish Presidency, we have as much as 15 chapters left to close, which, due to our slowness or ineffectiveness, were not ready to be sent to Brussels. However, strengthened legislative activities at the end of the summer and at the beginning of the fall session of the Assembly resulted in certain shifts visible in the next half-year period of the Kingdom of Belgium's presidency when we were able to close five negotiating chapters at two intergovernmental conferences. We also note that during the Belgian presidency, we will have another intergovernmental conference in mid-December if we could close at least three other negotiating chapters. The importance of the negotiating period submitted in this report should nevertheless be directed by the final opening of all the chapters in the negotiations. In the first six months of this year, we have opened the most difficult chapters, which tells us that we are really entering the finals of the negotiating process, but at the same time it means that the most difficult part of the negotiations is before us right now. We have two major reforms, judicial reform and shipbuilding reforms. We are well aware that the European Union pays particular attention to these particular chapters of the judiciary and fundamental rights and Chapter 8-The competition will require not only the adoption of laws and regulations and decisions on these areas but we are expected to implement, implement the given obligations before these chapters are foreseen for final closure. The reform of the judiciary was initiated at the end of the Spanish Presidency when we passed the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and started with the adoption of the Law on Courts, then the Law on the Judicial Academy, the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the recent Law on the State Judicial Council. Positive progress should continue with the real implementation of these laws and the election of the State Judicial Council under the new rules. If we continue to make further efforts in carrying out the commitments undertaken in Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights, we can expect his closure in the first half of 2011. During the privatisation and Croatian shipbuilding process, only the second round of public tenders received relatively acceptable offers and is currently at the competition protection agency to assess and approve the restructuring plans of individual bidders. The same evaluations determine the pace and progress in chapter 8-market competition. Finally, I would like to look back on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retirement on one of the elements of the negotiating process in which Croatia records backlogs and shows insufficient preparedness, which is the area of European funds. Recently in the debate, we had a report on the use of pre-accession aid instruments and the fact is that according to established criteria only in certain areas, I will mention only some areas of IPA, component 3A Transport. The rest of us, according to the criteria, were to publish public procurement by 30 September 2010 for 80% of the approved funds at 53m euros. We published only 28%. In other words, we missed using or late using 27.8m euros. And if we go according to the criteria of the contracted funds, according to the standard that was set for transport at 30% we missed using 15.5 million euros. In environmental protection, we failed to use 14m euros in published tenders and 26m euros in contracted funds. Or total, component 3a Transport, 3.b Environmental protection, 3.c Regional competitiveness in which we failed to take the chance according to the criteria of agreed amounts,... on 30 September 2010 €11.3 million... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] regional competitiveness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Suma sumarum transport, environmental protection, regional competitiveness and human potential development we failed to use according to the criteria of the announced competitions, because when the competition is announced it means that the preparation process has come to a stage that the project can be launched. Until that moment, the story is for little children. Or a group of some statistics that talk about the success of something, but success must be measured exclusively by the implementation of the project, and the implementation of the project begins with the publication of a public tender. In these four components of the IPA, we did not use the criteria for published tenders of 36m euros, and by the criteria of the agreed works, I repeat, according to the criteria agreed and agreed with the European Commission, we did not use 57m euros. I think this information is enough that we want this debate in the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party, too, to point out the need for a more responsible approach to something that is not related to the negotiation process, our accession, but it is directly related to the creation of conditions in our environment, especially when we talk about the net potential of 16.2 billion in funds when we enter into it for 2012, 2013. If we're in pre-accession projects, in pre-accession use of 2.3%, what we're going to be in a year in something that's 20 times bigger than today. We at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement will accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63714	Thank you. The HDZ representative's club, Mrs. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63715	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would first of all like to point out on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club that, in our opinion, the Spanish presidency has brought the expected good follow-up to the negotiations. Thus, this report noted progress in all areas of the negotiations, which continues to be a good trend from the previous Swedish Presidency. As most important, in a way, the breaking point that took place in the negotiations during the Spanish Presidency would single out an intergovernmental conference at which the Republic of Croatia opened all chapters in which the so-called screening or deep recording of legislation. This is extremely important because it shows in fact that the Republic of Croatia is ready for membership in the European Union. In fact, if there had been an earlier negotiation methodology in place, we would have actually completed negotiations at that point. However, the new way of negotiations introduced by the Institute of Criteria has shifted the conclusion of the negotiations, and we will, according to all things, see the end of the big deal during the next Hungarian presidency. As for the new way of negotiations, it will ultimately give the result of paraphrasing the former Commissioner of the European Commission for Enlargement, Mr Guenter Verheugen, Croatia, as if it can be judged by the latest wave of enlargement, the most prepared new member. In addition to what the Enlargement Strategy published earlier this month said, Croatia will not get a conditional entry in the way Bulgaria and Romania had when they entered the European Union in 2007. Thus, the criteria have significantly extended the duration of the negotiations, but we hope that they will ultimately contribute to their quality. Furthermore, with a big job done in all areas, whether it is a matter of meeting the criteria for opening or closing chapters or a number of other jobs involved in the preparation of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union, I would also make progress in relation to the chapters previously blocked by the Republic of Slovenia. This must have contributed significantly to the ratification of the arbitration agreement between our country and Slovenia in the Slovenian Parliament. In fact, I stand out this fact because the Slovenian blockade we remember last year quickly and artificially solved by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia must have cost us a year of negotiations. Finally, although not less important, during this period the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was also amended and thus it was possible to meet certain criteria for closing chapters. But also to create constitutional and legal assumptions that the Republic of Croatia can function as a future hope for 28 members of the European Union. This, in a legislative sense, as did the secretary of state here, was done most of the work when it comes to negotiations. I would like to stress that this job is largely negotiated, but that this job will remain a regular activity of the Croatian Parliament in the future for everything that is subject to harmonisation in order to introduce a new acquis of the European Union. It's final. During the period of the Spanish Presidency, negotiations and preparations for membership have progressed significantly, and we believe that the date of the conclusion of the negotiations will be known in the next debate. And although we have reason to be satisfied, we need to keep in mind that we still have important jobs to do before the negotiations and entry into the European Union are completed. I believe that this last part of the preparations will also be done well, and I hope that in this business we will continue a good practice of the consensus of parliamentary parties on the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. From the above mentioned club, the Croatian Democratic Community supports the report in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63716	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63717	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia can indeed conclude that progress has been made during the observed period in the accession negotiations that are entering the final phase. The fact from the negotiating balance of 33 open chapters, i.e. all who have passed the screening process and 20 temporary employees, is encouraging and welcome. There is reason for satisfaction, but it cannot be denied and the growing concern of not a small number of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia in connection with many misunderstandings, unknowns, and the problems that the negotiating process hides within itself. Among the problems, I, like my colleagues from the HNS, would like to point out here those relating to the use of pre-accession assistance instruments of the European Union, which Croatia as a candidate country has the opportunity to use. These instruments were replaced by a single instrument in early 2007, so-called The IPA programme aims to assist the Republic of Croatia in its preparations for joining the European Union and to provide additional financial support. In this regard, it is known that for Croatia funds amounting to more than 154m euros. But what is the situation with the use of these but previously available pre-accession aids? Given the fact that the strategic branch of the economy in Slavonia and Baranja agriculture for citizens of Slavonia and Baranja is of particular interest, it is also to analyse the usability of the funds of the SAPARD and IPARD pre-accession funds. The shortest said goal of the SAPARD programme in the Republic of Croatia was to improve the agricultural sector. That's where we met up with our first problems. Untimely training of implementation structures at national level, insufficient information and education of end-users, and extremely rigorous criteria for the development of projects, particularly in the first competitions, have adversely affected the use of this programme, and we also add great mistrust and dissuasion of users to launch adaptation projects to European standards. All in all, when it comes to the SAPARD programme, Croatia has failed to use around 90 million kuna from the European Agricultural Fund. And unfortunately, this money is lost forever. In fact, there were around 25 million euros in this fund, slightly more than 180 million kuna, and a little more than 93 million kuna was used for agricultural projects. The implementation of the SAPARD program is complete and the money is no longer possible to use. And the Ministry of Agriculture confirmed that the use of SAPARD was about 50%. Even the spokesman for the ministry Mr Mladen Pavić once told us little comfort that we are something better than most of the countries that entered the European Union before us. But it's a shame half the money was left untapped. The ministry now hopes that the situation will be better with the SAPARD heir with the IPARD. However, the IPARD programme appears at the time of the transformation or disappearance of the national return programme of capital investments, occurs at the time of the recession of the government budget deficit, failure of incentives, lack of money and support. However, a small response has been recorded at the IPARD's first competition. 37 projects of around 153 million kuna or around 20m euros have been reported, and we have just over 100m euros at our disposal. The total amount of support requested is therefore around 78m kuna or just over 10.5m euros. When it comes to IPARD from the outset, it is thought that it is not really for Croatian peasants because most of our peasants are over-indebted, but for a European peasant who has long paid off his loans and it is considered to be one of the fundamental problems of its poor usability. However, there is another perhaps bigger problem here, and this is although it seems at first sight that Europe through the IPARD programme offers something, unfortunately, it actually does, when it comes to Croatia through this pre-accession fund, defends many things and all that is needed for Croatia in order to develop competitiveness. In other words, all that cannot be achieved through IPARD are actually the most important Croatian needs. It seems that the EU actually sees us as a major competition and has limited our development prospects and competitiveness through various pre-accession funds regulations. The example for this is a lot of which I'm going to say for example one. In measure 101, at the fruit and vegetable sector, the regulation provides that the building must be between 500 and 2000 square meters at the end of the investment, and this is unacceptable for us because most manufacturers already have surface areas under plastics and greenhouses that are much larger than that area. Furthermore, for pre-financing, which is needed for IPARD, our peasants are in a more unfavourable position than farmers in the EU because interest on loans in Croatia is much more than in the EU, and it is also known that our peasants are already over-indebted and can hardly achieve new credit obligations. It should be noted that Croatian agriculture is not ready to join the EU, that our agricultural production is not ready to fight the prices of agricultural products that will be on the stock exchanges in our environment. I will point to another example from the perspective of Slavonia and Baranja. In the area of Osijek-Baranja County, around 230 million kuna have been approved by the European Commission and other international sources. In the last 3 years alone, 43 projects have been approved in the area of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County from these international funds, which will be co-financed with an amount of more than 50 million kuna. That's where we come up with some new problems. At the first IPA competition – Hungary-Croatia's cross-border cooperation, 42 projects have been approved, which will be financed with more than 12m euros. The county will receive an amount of more than 2.6m euros at the address of 25 project partners. This tender is the first one actually implemented in terms of structural and cohesion funds, which means that users are obliged to finance the first year of implementation of the project before they are then refunded, i.e. pre-financing. This condition has prevented many interested people from reporting for this competition because they were unable to satisfy it. In addition, all projects applying to EU funds need to be co-financed at a certain rate of 10 to 50% depending on the competition. Most EU countries address co-financing and pre-financing issues by establishing funds at national level. Croatia's problem is that so far Croatia does not have such a source of co-financing and pre-financing for projects. Furthermore, one of the basic preconditions of the application of infrastructure projects to EU funds is the possession of all the necessary documentation. Most local self-government units in Croatia have no financial capacity to achieve the same outcomes as they are not able to engage extremely expensive consultants who are able to prepare projects according to the EU methodology. Croatia's entry into the EU expects that the annual membership fee Croatia will pay will be around 600m euros. So far experience has shown that there is capacity on the ground for the maximum absorption of half that amount, so somewhere around 300m euros. Which means that the Republic of Croatia and its citizens will be at a loss of nearly 300m euros, although at the same time there will be more than a billion euros at our disposal for which there will be no capacity to withdraw. Finally, considering the situation with the upcoming accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, welcoming what has been done so far, several conclusions are also being imposed. It is unacceptable to keep secret all facts relating to the previously closed chapters of pre-accession negotiations. Secondly, it is obviously insufficient for the Republic of Croatia to be prepared to join the EU both with regard to the use of pre-accession funds and with regard to the use of structural and cohesion funds that will be available to our country by joining the EU. Finally, this unpreparedness and disorganization will result, we fear, in the larger annual membership fee that the Republic of Croatia will have to pay for EU membership from the possibility of using EU funds available. Due to all this, the HDSSB's club is asking the government of the Republic of Croatia to remove the designation of state secret from documents previously negotiated and closed chapters in the negotiating process of our country's EU accession, to meet the entire Croatian public on the content of these documents, as well as on the negotiating positions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for open chapters currently being negotiated and finally required of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and to guarantee that the preparation and negotiation process so far has provided Croatia with all the conditions for the smooth development and protection of all layers of Croatian society, i.e. that the Republic of Croatia is both socially and politically fully ready for full membership in the EU which Croatia must ensure, above all, the development of the economy and agriculture. Finally, we are asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia for full information, as well as an analysis of the progress made in the negotiation process and consequently the appropriate time period for the economic and social preparation of the Republic of Croatia for the obligations and challenges of full membership, and before the entry into the EU itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63718	Thank you. An individual debate. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63719	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I wanted to give the pain to this hearing about the report. It should certainly be pointed out that the Spanish Presidency was successful, we have already heard statistics on the support that good progress was made during the Spanish Presidency, that there were three intergovernmental sessions, that five chapters were open and that three were temporarily closed and that the end of the Spanish Presidency we welcomed with all open and 20 provisionally closed chapters. Just as Mr. Secretary of State has said, 88 criteria have been fulfilled during this reporting period which is a very good data, however, we are now almost at the end of the second six-month presidency and we have the current situation where all 35 chapters have been opened, and that 25 chapters are closed, which is also good information and I believe that we are approaching the goal that we are all seeking. The fact that everything is constantly monitored, that the monitoring of progress is also in temporarily closed chapters. It is also important to mention that during this period there has been a adoption of the Constitution which is a presumption of the effective functioning of Croatia in the European Union. Likewise, a working group working on the draft of the Treaty has been formed and that we are in a very high phase of the negotiations. As for the Parliament and you know for a fact that the Committee on European Integration has passed all the necessary laws so far, we still need to change some of the laws that follow from the amendments to the constitution and I believe that we are all seriously working on it. However, it should be noted that it may have been five years, there is no point not to say it here today, since 4 October 2005 when the negotiations were formally opened. THAT countries like Slovakia, Latvia and Lithuania had only negotiated for two years, that Bulgaria, Romania had only negotiated 3.5 years, and that so far we had a candidate recordr for the longest negotiations, maybe there were a few unfortunate steps but the policy had been so guided that we had to mention that we might have easily and naively thought that without full co-operation with the Hague court, it was perhaps the first step, then we relativated criticisms that applied to corruption in the country, and then the issue of ZERP happened, and then the tightening with Slovenia, and also justification at least in my view, the delay of the shipbuilding process affected this long process. So five of these steps may have affected that the time of five years has happened to Croatia, but it should also be said that the European Union introduced criteria for the opening of chapters, which no country had before, this did not exist and these criteria have significantly extended our negotiations, and we believe that these criteria will also contribute to quality. It is also a fact that the hardest work that we need to do will happen at the very end of the negotiations, which is why we are all complex, but once again I would like to mention that negotiations towards or with the Republic of Croatia have been more stringent than they have been to other countries, it may be said that this is because of the problem of the European Union itself or because of the problems in their backyard. The fact is that the Republic of Croatia should have waited five years to reduce the conditions for the opening of Chapter 23 and, of course, it is now difficult after several months to achieve the conditions for closure. I believe that the European Union is also expecting, due to errors in the case of Bulgaria and Romania, that the Republic of Croatia is giving convincing evidence to fight corruption, as we had the opportunity to hear from the Ambassador of the European Union himself in Croatia the other day. Because because of the already mentioned experience they had with these countries, they obviously won't be satisfied with the ongoing investigations and the charges filed, but are looking for concrete verdicts. The new goal is also ours, I hear that we have a consensus on behalf of all clubs, that the accession agreement should be signed in half of 2011 or at the end of the Hungarian Presidency. Some think this deadline is too optimistic but I personally think it's feasible. It is also necessary to mention the statement by Commissioner, Mr Füle, who said only states that are 100% ready will be admitted, and everyone repeats, and Ambassador Vandoren himself, that everything depends on the Republic of Croatia. It's one hope it's not a vicious circle, it's that we're going to make it through that circle and everything is going to end as planned. What I could conclude is that the European Union insists that the Republic of Croatia sets an example for others and that we and everyone else without tails in the European Union and that we are 100% ready, I believe that this will ultimately benefit the most the Republic of Croatia and the European Union itself. This latest report we got, the topic is the Spanish presidency but we can't mention this report after 5 months that's the most positive and hopefully the last one. There has been a lot of progress in meeting the criteria everywhere but, of course, there is still a need to improve public administration. Also a convincing reform of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and the need to ensure basic human rights. It also mentions the re-judgment and depolitisation of the judiciary as well as the judicial verdicts, which does not mean that they must be condemned, they can be and liberating only expect the end of these processes and I believe that in this sense our judiciary is seriously working. Two chapters of competition should be mentioned, and again this judiciary, which I was talking about, are particularly sensitive, but the latest report clearly recognized that Croatia has done a lot in the fight against corruption and in resolving competition issues, which are shipyards. Finally, I would say that the report on the economic criteria for membership is very important, and we see that this is one of the pillars of the further development of the Republic of Croatia and our government, Croatia is recognised in this report as a country of the functioning market economy, and we believe that it will not be a problem when we become a member of the European Union, so we are working parallelly and on the economic recovery programme to make it a country of economic strength because I think it is the most important thing of all of this, it has become 28 members and in this economic empowerment, economic recovery if the government is consistent with it I think that the key of all our problems is in place and that Croatia as such an economically empowered country will become very soon 28 EU members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63720	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63721	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is a colleague of Shuice you have actually apostrophe of the efforts that Croatia has made during these negotiations, which I have to agree with you have been extremely long not only for us MPs, but also for our citizens who are waiting for Croatia's entry into the EU. And it seems to me that only Turkey has been negotiating longer. So, with all the efforts that Croatia has made during these negotiations, we must nevertheless apostrophe that sometimes politics has interfered with these criteria, that Gotovina has been sought in places where he was not, and Croatia was considered responsible for it, so when Gotovina was arrested it was obvious that Croatia did not hide it. They also looked for Gunnery diaries, and then they didn't look for each other, so now they're looking for each other again. So it seems important to me to say that Croatia has indeed experienced on this journey which was difficult, thorny and I would say sometimes bloody and certain political obstructions perhaps from those parties that are not willing to view Croatia as a European modern state which I claim we are. So, we took the job slowly to the end. I believe that we will also do these last shares properly and that during the first 6 months of the following year we will close negotiations and sign an accession contract, of course during the time of the Hungarian Presidency, because a lot of efforts has been made and Croatia belongs to this European family and Croatia deserves to sit at that table and deserves to make decisions evenly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63722	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63723	Mrs. Petyr, I realize that I may have given you the creamworth of my argument about what you said. I would not engage in these political assessments and evaluations, which is why we were asked to do so from the EU. The fact is that I go back to the part of my debate when I said that maybe we were naive and gullible and we didn't want maybe at the very beginning we could, we knew, wanted to recognize what really needs to be fulfilled, because you must report on the latest statements of all both Mr. Füla and Mr. Vandoren when they say everything depends on Croatia. Now it is up to us to interpret that statement, and I hope that we are correct in interpreting it and that we will meet all the remaining criteria and that we will successfully sign an agreement in 2011 and end all negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63724	Mr. Agent Tonino Picula. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63725	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Indeed, progress in the negotiations and completion of the 2011 technical part of the negotiations should be welcomed. I personally don't think a date really needs to be speculated. It was quite clear that the rhetoric that came from Brussels in the last few weeks where the credibility of the enlargement process was being discussed and that giving dates and adding dates could undermine certain credibility of the enlargement process itself, especially if it was taken as Mr. Füle himself said unfortunately the problems that were with Romania and Bulgaria but also what we had unfortunately when the former prime minister was often hitting on dates like ping-pong balls when it should all be over. And finally, the Commissioner in question said himself that the state must be 100% ready to enter, but then he gave a continuation of the sentence, but the EU must be 100% ready to receive, which is a clear message that behind Croatia that we expect to complete in 2011, the next enlargement process will wait for some time. And personally, as we can see, I think we can do some date in the spring that we'll hear. But you should now say that the conclusion of the technical part of the negotiations is actually the beginning of a very difficult job that unfortunately we should have already started to do. In fact, we can say this vividly that the conclusion of the negotiations is one tip of the ice santa underneath which there are a lot of good things beneath the surface, and there are a lot of potential problems that we should have already faced and started to make certain changes. I primarily think about the real structural reforms in certain segments and our policy of society in order to facilitate Croatia's membership and, better actually, to the benefit of all citizens, to profit in membership itself. I will only give you an example of Chapter 23 on the one hand which is actually a matter of structural reforms but is also a political issue, and on the other hand it is a cohesion policy which, first of all, is a matter of structural reforms where Croatia must prepare much, much better where it should already begin to prepare. And here actually colleagues and colleagues we are late, we should start doing the right agricultural reform, we should start reforming the administration, we should start preparing for cohesion policy, we should be doing local self-government reform by now. Because these reforms are actually the key, they are the basis for success in the use of EU funds, they are the successes for agriculture, they are actually the basis for the success of our people in the single labour market, for example. And that's where we're actually late, where it's least done, and instead we get sometimes demagogy, and unfortunately we get even a dangerous rhetoric. I'm just going to say two things that have been said here in the Assembly from a pay phone that is really on the one hand demagogy, on the other hand dangerous rhetoric. It is dangerous to say that the EU will save us, indeed dangerous. The EU will not save us. We will save ourselves, the EU will help, and we need to know how to do this. And the second, in my opinion, is the personal demagogue rhetoric, membership now brings up 3.5 billion euros. For the 3.5 billion euros that we're talking about, we have to have our own money, we have to have 5 to 10 times as much human resources and capacity as we don't have, and I have to start preparing a huge number of projects, and for these money, the project documentation is really this thick. And that job should have been slow to start and work. And now you see the continuation of this rhetoric in the budget that the parliamentary majority has brought today. So let's say for a budget that has been said to be the key to the conclusion of the negotiations, Malta's already first Croatian European budget, you will indeed find the European Union in the descriptions. The descriptions of the budget everywhere say from the CARDS, the PHARE, the IPA did it, it was done, the goal is this, the goal is this, but actually, when you look at the items you get, we have money for the referendum, we have. Thank God we finally have some serious means of communicating Europe to the citizens. Euroscepticism in Croatia, which is very large, I will repeat again, is the result of ignorance and because there is not enough information, and not really because our citizens know that the European Union is wrong, so they are Eurosceptic. There's just no information. The latest survey presented in the EU information centre that has been doing GONG, which shows the disastrous knowledge of our young people about the European Union, is proof that we urgently need to turn the helm on this issue. Because it is young people who should profit most from the European Union, whether from the single educational space or the single labour market they are going to, and they know very little. And there's a really big need to make changes. Also, the European Union, what is important for communication with citizens, is not only a negotiation nor what the Assembly is doing about coordination or are funds. The European Union's funds ultimately, to say the layman's like that, are financial instruments to achieve the objectives of certain policies. So we use the Lifelong Education Fund to achieve the objectives of IT 2020 policy, means policies for education by 2020. That's why there's those funds. The problem in Croatia is that citizens know almost nothing or very little about politics themselves. If we take the key policy, the strategic policy of the European Union, the EU 2020, and if we just secede and say that when you read it, you will see that there must be some changes in education policy, that there must be change in tax policy, that there must be change and shift in environmental policy, in social policy. The question is then why and when will it start to communicate better with all European Union policies. I'm not talking about this policy here because it's actually recent, but let's just say that's the question. Croatia assumes with membership that certain objectives will also achieve these policies and objectives should be communicated. Then you have another example. Citizens and the European Union. For example, the budget clearly shows that the government has recognised the role of the civil sector in Europe's communication with citizens and in the use of future funds and structural funds, which clearly stands in the budget. And it also clearly states that the number of citizens' associations is expected to increase by 50%, but the financial resources are down 30%. 50% more people, 50% more jobs hopefully, 30% less resources. That's the problem. So I'll tell you, the European Union is not just a question of negotiations and coordination, it's a much bigger, much wider story. And now we're in 2011 which is a really crucial year. I don't think there's a party here, I think we'll all agree, if we don't finish negotiations this year, if we miss 2011, I personally think it's a mini disaster for Croatia. In financial terms immediately, directly, in the fact that we will lose a certain position so that we can participate actively for the next financial period, we must conclude negotiations in this year. But that's why we should go into reform and it should be seen in this budget. We should really start with agricultural reform, for example. Because European agricultural policy and the way the funds go into this policy and our agricultural subsidies are in many ways the opposite. There was supposed to be a change. Go on. If we know that we're getting away with the current capacity with IPA, and we know that there's ten times more money waiting for us, it's clear that we should also start working on the staff issue, and we're not going to be able to use all the resources we have because we lack capacity and we also need to see it in the budget. And what is still to be seen, 3.5 billion euros from the European budget ultimately must be seen in billions of kunas in the Croatian budget. And therefore, what we in the SDP see as a problem with this budget that has been said to be European is very simple. This budget that was adopted today was unfortunately electoral, pre-election, and the fact is that in 2012, then we'll break our teeth and then ad hoc will have to do reforms rapidly, there'll be shooting in the system. We will normally have to improvise in many ways and thus sow seeds of problems for the future. These are the last moments that now in 2011, by the beginning of 2011, we begin to make concrete changes so that Croatian citizens do not have a problem with membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63726	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63727	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. It is indisputable that the European Union has introduced criteria as objective evidence that the Republic of Croatia must fulfil in order to monitor the process of its accession to full membership in the European Union and that individual criteria are met in such a way that certain chapters are provisionally closed. However, we would not be so as not to, and after certain chapters are closed, and after somehow getting the green light from the European Union for a particular chapter, not to intervene in the system and introduce certain amendments, so we are essentially spoiling what has been negotiated and agreed with the European Union. I will give two rather concrete questions, which are highlighted in the latest progress of the 2010 report of the Republic of Croatia, which actually refers to this period of the Presidency of Spain to the European Union. In Chapter 15. Energy has been negotiated a lot of things, including the status of regulatory bodies, or the State Nuclear Security Institute and the State Department for radiation protection. We changed the status of those two institutions this spring by uniting them into one office, the Radiological and Nuclear Security Office. However, the new law did not come into life. However, his employees who have therefore moved from these two institutions to a single institution have not received any work contracts, and are essentially paid out of the state budget and money for salaries and for health and pension insurance, without essentially having a regulated status. But about that, it's not, it's more of a sloppy administration. However, what is the measure is the fact that the inspection supervision of the new institution is designed in a way that is still competent for the Ministry of Health, although I say in negotiations with the European Union, this was negotiated differently in the energy negotiations, so here is the European Union, or the European Commission, in progress report, says: The merger of these two institutions has not yet been operationalised, and further inspection functions are still assigned to the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which puts this regulatory body's independence into question. The Euroatom Directive on public information relating to the transport of radioactive waste and material has not yet been transposed, and there is no national nuclear accident plan. All this therefore stands in this progress report and I remind you that temporarily closed chapters can be reopened unless the Republic of Croatia adheres to what is committed or what is negotiated. The following example is set out in Chapter I. – Free movement of goods closed in April this year, and the fact is that it is chapter I. So Free movement of goods. One of, not one of the basic pillars, but the basic pillar on which the European Union rests, free movement of goods, or free trade. For this chapter, accreditation, normisation, measurement, compliance testing as criteria are exclusive criteria for closing chapters. The fact is that we have great accreditation, we have very good normisation, we have even correct measurement in this legal part. But fundamental or scientific measurement is in critical condition that it has not missed the awake eyes of our colleagues from the European Union, so they say: Harmonisation in meteorology has advanced, cooperation has been established between the National Monitoring Institute and the newly formed National Measurement Institute. However, the transfer of powers for scientific measurement to the National Measurement Institute is another of the most important unfinished, unfinished issues. I remind you that in Article 73. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement states that the National Measurement Institute must be a member of EUROMET, i.e. the European Measurement Institute. And in EUROMET, it cannot be the State Bureau of Measurement because it deals with legal measurement. The Office of State for Measurement shall be a member of the Welmec, as also provided for in Article 73 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. Unfortunately, the National Measurement Institute is not functioning. Moreover, we have lost traceability in two national laboratories that hold ethlons for density and mass, laboratories tested and competent to ensure traceability are subsequently going to a calibration in Austria or elsewhere and instead of 4000 kuna pay 4000 euros, and we have knowledge, skills and two accredited laboratories in Germany at the DKD, which these days will lose accreditation all because the Ministry of Science, Ministry of Economy, and directors of the National Monitoring Institute and the National Monitoring Office cannot agree with each other. There were also crazy ideas to reunite the State Bureau for Measurement, Accreditation and Normalisation in an organization as it was before the start of negotiations with the European Union. But all happiness is prevented. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, do something to make sure that these seemingly irrelevant things to the general public are quite unknown and unattractive because otherwise, we as the Republic of Croatia will be in a position to reopen the negotiated chapters for a trivial reason such as the National Measurement Institute, and that this is a distraction on the otherwise great road to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63728	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63729	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank the support provided by HDZ, SDP, HNS-HSS and HDSB for the adoption of today's Report on Negotiations during the Spanish Presidency of the EU and, if you allow me, I would like to take a brief look at a few of the key issues that today's debates and individual discussions were, as usual, priority topics when it comes to Croatia's EU accession process. First of all, I believe that the EU enlargement policy since 2006, with a new strategy with a renewed consensus on enlargement, has received 3 new elements that Croatia must continuously take into account because of the very three elements that reflect the dynamics of Croatian negotiations. The first and key ones were also visible on the occasion of the publication of the European Commission's latest report on 9 November, which is that no one will be promised any more in advance the dates of the end of the negotiations. I think that element is very important that we keep it in mind continuously after French President Mitterand and German Chancellor Köhl promised 2000 during the 1990s, and it has failed and become in 2004 for its own credibility, EU member states will no longer promise dates. The second element in this strategy refers to the criteria for opening the chapter. Today, the debate repeatedly noted that there was no such aspect of the negotiations in the previous methodologies of the accession process. He caused two things. One, it has made the negotiation process longer and the other, has enabled candidate countries, accession countries to better prepare for future membership by meeting these criteria. So we can look at it from a positive but also from a less positive aspect. And the third element of 2006 which, fortunately, does not apply to Croatia, and perhaps most importantly, is the withdrawal from forgetting the criteria of the absorption capacity of the EU, which primarily refers to the large Member States, and Croatia does not pose any problem for the members of the Union as a whole with regard to its absorption based on all studies on the impact of Croatian membership on the EU. I would also refer to the dynamics of the negotiations during the Belgian presidency. I think that the last government conference where the additional 3 chapters were temporarily closed has created good preconditions that already on 22 December Croatia is trying to temporarily close at least 3 more chapters. Our ambition is very clear, it is about chapters relating to justice, freedom and security – Chapter 24; to environmental protection – Chapter 27 and to foreign, security and defence policy – Chapter 31. Such a scenario will allow Croatia to enter the Hungarian presidency which is truly crucial, we are fortunate to have Hungary taking over the presidency at the moment, which is ready to help and be a skilled President of the Council of the European Union in order to ensure the quality dynamics of the conclusion of the negotiations during the first 6 months of next year and there are two groups of chapters on the agenda. The first, which has financial implications, is the chapters of Agriculture – 11, Chapter Regional Policy – 22 and the Financial and Budgetary Provisions – Chapter 33 and, ultimately, Chapter 2 of the key chapters discussed today – Chapter relating to the Market Competition and the Justice and Fundamental Rights and, of course, to the last Chapter – Other issues. Among them, I believe that we will be able to solve the rest of the last chapter, which is Chapter 13 concerning fisheries. In a series of discussions today, pre-accession funds as well as preparations for structural and cohesion funds are also mentioned. We believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is, in particular, the bodies responsible for coordinating the access programmes, before the All-Central State Office for Fund Coordination and Development Strategy, as well as all the restoring ministries that have been responsible for the implementation of the programme of either the first generation, whether the IPA programme makes and makes maximum efforts to increase the absorption capacity of these funds and prepare quality projects. And on this topic, the Croatian Parliament led a series of discussions, so I think they are a little out of the Spanish presidency. I would also mention what we are doing about Europe's communication to citizens. It was correctly noted that the 2011 budget envisioned significantly higher funds than it was the case of so far. We believe that it will allow for more intensive, quality communication towards Croatian citizens on the advantages of EU membership and on the results of the negotiations. We have been very successful since this year after the European week, and we have continued with our kind of campaign in Croatian counties that every week is a European week because I do not feel that there is a need to getoise the debate on Europe only at a time when we remember the adoption of the Schuman Declaration we have already continued and here I can tell you that I was also personally in 17 counties, the ministry organised events in 19 counties, and by Christmas we will be in the remaining 2 and at these meetings we notice a really important increase in the level of information, involvement and interest of all interested target groups for the European process. Of course, the implementation of the communication strategy adopted by this House in 2006 implies the responsibility of all the actors involved in this process, and not only the Government or the negotiating team or the resolution ministries but also the important contribution is expected from the representatives to take part in their environments of responsibility and to communicate Europe. And the ministry will make every effort for citizens to be fully informed about the consequences of their own decision and their own election when they come to the referendum. As regards the European Commission's report and the specific topics some MPs have evoked here, the government's view is that it was a positive report, that it pointed to certain areas where further progress can be expected and we will also warn those resolutions, especially those dealing with Chapter 15. – Energy, Chapter 1. – Free movement of goods, to keep watch over compliance because the temporary closure of chapters really does mean temporary. All chapters at the end of the negotiations will be reopened so that all the responsible negotiators and resolutions follow the process that... which takes over the remaining liabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the European Commission's report will help us to be more effective in this business. I thank you for supporting the government's report on the Spanish EU presidency and for the progress made during that period of negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63730	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. We are going to vote on the agenda points we discussed. First, the report on the course of the negotiation process of the Republic of Croatia, the European Union, during the Presidency of the Kingdom of Spain to the Council of the European Union, from 1 January to 30 June 2010, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, concluded the debate. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the course of the negotiation process of the Republic of Croatia is adopted during the Presidency of the Kingdom of Spain to the Council of the European Union, from 1 January to 30 June 2010. Let's please get involved and vote on this report. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 96 votes for, one abstention, and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63733	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Croatia has entered the final line of accession to the EU membership negotiations. This has also been confirmed recently by a very positive Commission progress report for 2010 where the European Commission has made it clear that Croatia is making progress in all segments of this demanding process and it is very clear from the report that progress has been made in all the chapters that the Republic of Croatia is negotiating. The report describes the opportunities in real and objective terms in the Republic of Croatia and stresses that we are entering the final phase of the negotiations. This is certainly an additional incentive for us to continue with greater intensity to meet all the remaining membership criteria in order to successfully complete our work and conclude the negotiations and join the signing of the Accession Treaty in the middle of next year. We are confident, given the information we are getting from our partners from the European Union, but given our dynamics and our willingness to achieve this goal. Almost 6 years ago in January 2005 ahead of the expected start of negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union, we adopted on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament then adopted a series of important acts that set out the main provisions for the conduct of negotiations and were the starting point for joint action in this process. One of these documents and a declaration of fundamental principles for the conduct of negotiations, whose amendment we are proposing today. I am convinced that both the government and the negotiating team are in a demanding role of the Croatian Parliament, I am convinced that we have all done a good job on this road together, leading to the specifics and principles in the strategic documents that we have then adopted in order to ensure the most favourable solutions and conditions under which the Republic of Croatia will equally engage in the functioning of the European Union and its institutions. However, the final assessment of the business entrusted to us must and can only be made by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the decision to join the European Union should be a direct expression of the will of citizens, based on timely and credible information, on the importance and challenges of Croatia's membership in the European Union. In point 8 of the Declaration, it is defined that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will decide to join the European Union by means of referendums to be held before the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union or after the conclusion of the negotiations. Today, almost 6 years after the adoption of the relevant Declaration, and taking into account the comprehensiveness and demand of the negotiating process that is in the most part behind us, as well as all the issues and solutions that have arisen from it, we believe that the declaration in question should be changed in the way that it is proposed in the text before you. Therefore, the referendum should be held within 30 days of the date of signing of the accession contract. This is the decision we have made and we propose it to the Croatian Parliament for the reasons why we want citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia at the time of making such an important decision as membership in the European Union to be absolutely sure of what it means and to know the conditions under which it should happen. This is what we are convinced is possible when the conditions of membership are fully clear, legally defined and final, which will happen precisely with the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. By looking at the negotiation process itself, it ends with the signing of the accession treaty, which defines the conditions under which Croatia joins the European Union and following what is agreed in the negotiations. We believe that only when the results of the negotiations are known in all the chapters of the negotiations, and legally transformed into the text of the treaty, as well as confirmed by Croatia's signature on the final text of the contract, because the contract will not be initialled but will be signed directly. Citizens and citizens of Croatia can make an informed decision on whether or not they want to join the European Union under such defined conditions. All communication activities aimed at informing the Croatian public and the European Union and preparations for membership will be further intensified in the upcoming period and the referendum will be preceded by a broad and intensive campaign so that citizens and citizens can express their will in a referendum on the basis of timely and objective information. The campaign has been carried out for years but the final campaign will be prepared in parallel with the closure of the last negotiating chapters and will be conducted as so far in collaboration with the media, local partners, county councils for European integration, civil society organisations and all holders of the accession process. The results of the public change research so far are encouraging and we will continue to try to maintain this support for our citizens to join the EU by strengthening our information and communication activities. Here, I would like to reiterate once again that the latest survey conducted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration shows that a referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union would lead to 70% of respondents, and 62% of them would vote for, 33 would be against, and 5% still have not made their final decision. So, right now, we already have very stable support for Croatia's entry into the European Union, but it is our desire to make this percentage as much as possible, that the more people through real information, through real data on what membership in the European Union means to us to make the right decision, and I believe that by analysing our interests of the state, national, certainly full membership of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. Experiences from the last wave of enlargement show that most of the accession countries, for example, Lithuania, Slovakia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Estonia and Latvia, held referendums after the signing of the Accession Treaty. REFERRED TO IN THIS REASON, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to amend the Declaration on Fundamental Principles for the Making of Negotiations, under which a referendum on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union would be held within 30 days of the date of signing of the Treaty of Accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, and we hope that representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament will support this proposal. I stress that the government remains unquestioned that the final decision must and should be made exclusively by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a referendum which was confirmed by the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as of June this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63734	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63735	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are discussing today another European topic, which is the Proposal for an amendment to the principles of negotiations for full-fledged membership of the Republic of Croatia, which this same Parliament brought to the atmosphere in 2005 by all parliamentary parties on important issues and strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia on the road to the goal of full membership, the atmosphere that has been maintained in one way or another until today, when we monitor after 5 years, we almost see the end of this long negotiation process. Then on 19 January 2005, when this declaration was adopted, we were ahead of the opening of negotiations. We knew that this road would be long, that it would not be easy and we were aware and we were then aware that a number of reforms would be needed to change and bring much of our legislation into line with the EU acquis, but we knew that on this long negotiating path we would stand many times on a number of political and less technical issues. The declaration, which was then adopted in whose amendment on one part we are discussing today, and we are discussing an amendment to point 8 in the original current text, says that the Croatian Parliament, which highlights the importance of the active role of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the EU accession process, will decide on EU accession through referendums that must be held before the signing of the Treaty of Accession to the European Union, or after the conclusion of the negotiations. This amendment proposes the following, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia will decide on EU accession in a referendum to be held within 30 days of the date of signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. After the referendum, depending on its results, the Croatian Parliament will join the ratification of the Treaty of Accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, the proposal says that full information on accession is important and that the Government will sign a treaty with the Union, wait for the outcome of the referendum and, in accordance with its outcome, ratify or not the accession agreement. Here is a proposal to set an exact deadline of 30 days from the signing, which we at the SDP club think should be a little better thought-out and to see what the timing of the conclusion of the negotiations will be so as not to have certain problems over the referendum itself, that the deadline of 30 days may be slightly extended. One more thing, we at the SDP club believe that this proposed amendment should nevertheless leave those few words that highlight the active role of citizens, because it is one of the most important jobs ahead of us, which is informing citizens about the EU. In the history of the EU, I am a referendum as a way of directly deciding citizens and citizens has a very important role throughout its history. On this occasion, I would like to give a brief review of some different membership referendums to highlight the importance of the referendum and to remind us that there have been many different examples, and that our case is by no means an exception. We would like to emphasise the importance of the referendum as a verdict of the Institute for Membership or not membership in any community where only citizens have the right to decide, and citizens can only decide if they have valid, complete and clear membership information. What does a membership carry behind it? What's the classic state's will to give up? What powers and decisions does it leave to the Union? These are the costs of membership, and what are the financial and other benefits of the same? In the SDP club, we believe that the information of citizens has been under-worked and that now is the time for all our forces to focus on this job, starting from ourselves in this House, the Government and all other institutions, associations and media that can help and play a certain role in this business. However, when we talk about the enlargement of the Union by excluding rare countries that have not implemented the referendum on Union accession and excluding the founding countries of the Union, it is interesting to recall a few examples of the referendums held. So France held a referendum in April 1972 on the possibility of further expanding the European communities to new members. The referendum was attended by 60% of French citizens, with 68% of voters voting for further enlargement. Immediately thereafter, the candidates for membership of Ireland, Denmark and Norway hold accession referendums and 83% of voters in Ireland and 63% of voters in Denmark support their countries' entry into the European community. While in Norway 53.5% of voters say no to entering the then European community. In 1974, it was interesting that in the United Kingdom, the laborist government of Harold Wilson had called a referendum asking citizens of the United Kingdom if they wanted to remain a member of European communities. At the referendum, with 64% of voters leaving 67% of the UK's citizens, however, said they would stay in the community. With regard to the enlargements themselves, the referendums were held in 1994 in 4 countries. Three were positive in Austria, Finland and Sweden, while that same year, Norway's citizens again pleaded against joining the Union. In 2004, the enlargement, as we know, took place in 10 countries, and in all of them, a referendum on membership took place in Cyprus except for Cyprus, with positive outcomes. Support there was very different from the astronomical 92.46% support in the Slovak Republic to the lowest but yet sufficient result of a 54% referendum in Malta. The countries later became full members on 1 May 2004. However, various referendums were held on the issue of euro introduction as common currencies, ratification of further agreements that upgraded the EU's contracts gradually, etc. In all this, we see that the referendum as such plays an extremely important, almost crucial role in the life and history of the Union, but we also know that the will of citizens is extremely sensitive to day-to-day political events and we must act responsibly in this sensitive field and not use the topic of our accession to the Union for daily political purposes. We need to raise this topic even more above the agenda policy, act responsibly towards the country and citizens and give full information in membership because citizens have the right to fully inform themselves about what membership is carrying and relations with them. In the SDP club, we would like to stress that certainly this business that is ahead of us does not contribute to government manipulation of the very costs of holding a referendum. This could create a certain aversion of citizens to the institute, because even this summer, representatives of the ruling majority claimed that 170 million kunas were needed to hold a referendum on workers' rights, a referendum that was managed to avoid in writing with the Constitutional Court, while only 50 million kuna are planned for the next year to implement a referendum on Croatia's accession to the European Union. How is it possible that this referendum is planned for three times less funds than that original referendum? Whether there was some seasonal downturn for the referendums or whether the government only invented the figure in its own time and thus intimidated the citizens. On the other hand, however, it should be said that negotiations on the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union have long-term identified the important issues of the social and economic system and the international position of Croatia. But there is still a lot of work ahead of us primarily, I will repeat once again, on informing citizens about the European Union and it is also good to set a deadline that must be relatively short after the negotiations have been completed so that citizens have full insight into the whole process that we will be going through, hopefully as soon as possible, have fresh information and will be able to see the entire way of our country and will therefore be able to give their voice responsibly and consciously in a referendum for or against membership. But I repeat once again, let us consider whether we should put a 30 - day deadline so overly or perhaps even consider a longer time. And finally, once again, I have not yet said, the SDP Club will support the proposal to amend this Declaration on the principles of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63736	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63737	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State and Minister of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, it has been said several times, Croatia has long negotiated, and Croatia formally became a candidate country for membership in the European Union six years ago, and let's remember when the Parliament adopted a declaration that we are changing today in one of its parts. After this important decision was made for Croatia to become a candidate country for membership in the European Union, when the decision was taken by the Council of the European Union in June 2004 and the Croatian Assembly adopted a declaration of the fundamental principles of negotiations for the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union by consensus of all parliamentary parties at the time. The declaration set up a fundamental political framework in which negotiations are held, with the aim of achieving the fundamental national interests of the Republic of Croatia both politically and financially in this big and important business. The declaration also, starting from the fundamental constitutional values, set out the main settings for the achievement of Croatian national interests, but also defined Croatia as a future member of its humanistic, cultural, human, economic and its potential to contribute to the achievement of the common objectives of the European project. Among other things, the declaration provided for the establishment of the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations as an ad hoc working body of the Croatian Parliament whose basic task is to discuss the views of the Croatian party on all the chapters of the legal gain that are being negotiated. Today, when the National Committee has largely completed this task entrusted to him by the Croatian Parliament with the declaration, it can be said that in practice a consensus has been revived through this body on the common goal of Croatia's accession to the European Union and that it fulfils its task in the manner of declaration and order. Furthermore, the declaration also provided for an amendment to the Constitution which was necessary in order for the Republic of Croatia to meet all the preconditions in order to become members of the European Union and act in accordance with the provisions of the European legal order. These changes, reaffirming the consensus of the largest part of the parliamentary parties on Croatia's accession to the European Union, were adopted this year, thus creating all legal assumptions that Croatia could complete the negotiations and become the 28th member of the European Union. Constitutional changes, among other things, have regulated the issue of implementing a binding referendum in which Croatian citizens will decide on Croatia's accession to the European Union. The Declaration on the Fundamental Principles of Full Membership Negotiations was intended to hold a referendum on membership prior to the signing of the Accession Treaty. However, an analysis of the experiences of some countries that had referendums on accession to the European Union, in particular those from the last wave of enlargement, showed that it was more responsible and appropriate to make the referendum more appropriate after the signing of the contract. This allows citizens to vote on the basis of the final text which defines all the conditions of accession and thus enables full insight into the advantages and disadvantages that Croatia would have with its membership of the European Union. In this way, citizens are given the opportunity to vote informedly in a referendum on membership. For this reason, the Government proposed to amend point 8(1) of that declaration in a way that instead of the text setting out that the referendum was to be held before the signing of the accession contract, the new provision prescribed that the referendum would be applied within 30 days of the signing of the accession contract. With the vote informed in a referendum on membership of crucial importance, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the amendment of that declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63738	Thank you. It's next to the HNS-HSU club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63739	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about a question so important for the Republic of Croatia and its future such as the accession of the European Union to the Croatian Parliament, it feels a different atmosphere than when we talk about issues that are from our daily work and where we are allowed to sharpen the spears and blades of our criticism and discussion and more than usual. But starting from the fact that the Croatian Parliament as a legislative and representative body of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia has established a high level of consensus on the fact that the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is of national and the primary national interest should be said that it is one framework on which we have all worked together for a long time and that it is extremely high level of responsibility for us, not only for the Government, that this job is important, honorable, which belongs to only one generation of happy politicians that we can participate in it to the end as it should be done with dignity, full responsibility and awareness that we are doing one long-term work and that everything we do whether at the level of the executive authority or at the level of the Croatian Parliament leaves long-term consequences in the future of our country and in the future of our people. When we talk about joining the European Union, of course, the government's job is the most visible. It is she who directly manages these negotiations affairs as counterpart Pejcinovic has said for six years with less or more success, with crises and takeoffs, with less or more understanding of the public or with less or more resistance. But the Croatian Parliament, too, has so far worked on 5 hundred cases in which it was worth bringing our legislative practice closer to, our legal practice with the legal, or legal gain of the European Union is talking about a great deal that we have done not only in this term, but also our colleagues in the previous term of the Croatian Parliament. I wish we were more aware of the importance of what was done. Of course, each of these laws opens a new story. It concerns our daily life, the standards in which we intend to live, and by which we intend to behave in the future. He defines almost everything around us. But this framework brings us closer to those who have had more intense and quality experiences than we have in co-existence in Europe. In Europe as a concept that includes a community of peoples who live and want to live in peace, create new values for the well-being of generations that are just coming. Of course, the euro skepticism is an entirely legitimate political position, and I think it would be a much harder job to work on this job, so important to the future that there are no euro skeptics. Because any criticism should actually be seen as a free consulting service, even in this case. Therefore, all those who have reservations towards our entry into the European Union and what is being done to get to that entry as soon and as high as possible have the right to have such political positions, have the right to present their cold, doubt and fears, and they will be as much as allowed to make our story known to the end and, in fact, by adding up all the positive and negative effects of joining the European Union, we come to the final conclusion and why Croatia and Croatian citizens are very much worth being part of the community we call the European Union. The differences in the results of the public opinion survey coming from different sources in my opinion are expected. I believe that we have not done enough, that in this cacophony of all possible messages that we are sending from the Croatian Parliament, and let us not forget that we are doing so in the most severe economic crisis, in a crisis which significantly touches and shakes some of the elements on which the European Union rests. Sometimes we send cacophonic voices that, in the ears of a common man, sometimes look like jam, sometimes they may also act chaoticly. It is therefore extremely important that this final phase in this story of Croatia's accession to the European Union be as concentrated as possible, responsible, pure in language and speech, clear in the message, transparent in all the decisions we make so that every man can decide for himself and assess what commonity can bring him as symbolized by the European Union. These are all important things that will affect the attitude of every citizen when he comes to a referendum tomorrow and decides on the fate of his country and people to whom he belongs. When he chooses whether he wants to live outside that box or be a full part of it. If we weren't lying, we'd have done a lot of things for ourselves by agreeing to certain types of tutoring and pressure because we knew ourselves, if we'd made that decision ourselves, and we'd probably have taken a lot more time and the question is, would we have made a good decision? We are not a country that has a long democratic path and a long democratic tradition. And sometimes in a political struggle we go not fiercely, it's not a problem, but sometimes incorrectly. Sometimes it's partothocracy that takes a toll on the behavior of all our parties, and it cloudes sometimes the real values. You should be aware of that. It may also affect that part of the people in Croatia say that the policy we are dealing with here and which represents EU accession is not credible enough, but it will be our fault. In any case, there is not much time for the idea of EU accession that many are experiencing painfully listening to how difficult we are to negotiate, and especially in some chapters, which some also experience in the experiences of some other countries that are already EU members, but have not led their negotiations to a quality and have not ended them in order to benefit their countries and their people, but to suffer and certain damages. So that there should be no more impressions of those who will say no in the referendum than that of those who will say that for the future of Croatia in such a community. That's very important. And each of us has a part of our responsibility in that story. Both Government and Parliament. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to warn that 2012 and 2013 will be extremely important for the Croatian Parliament as only the Croatian Parliament and its representatives will be in the so-called Croatian Parliament. Parliament's diplomacy can be done by the important part of the work that precedes the ratification of our agreement with the EU in their home parliaments. Let us not forget it will take 27 parliaments to convince that ratification is not delayed, that they do not put it at the bottom of their agenda and that they do not forget it but rather that they want to take Croatia seriously in their society and help us not to take this process too long. In this, exceptional responsibility will be given to members of the Croatian Parliament, and it is therefore important to think now about establishing a working group that will be fully qualified for this kind of communication with our colleagues in other parliaments, which will act on a persistent and hard year, a year and a half until the process is over. In any case, the HNS-HSU club accepts the government's initiative to correct the text of a declaration adopted by the Croatian Parliament in its own time, but we warn that such an expression in the proposal that it would be worth a referendum in a strict term, which is not well imagined within 30 days of the signing of the Treaty with the EU. In fact, we should stick to the principles that we are now installing in the text of the declaration, which is that the referendum should be held in the period between the signing of the Treaty with the EU, or the European Commission and the moment of ratification in the Croatian Parliament. So that's the principle, between these two points, these two important events, there's got to be a referendum. Why limit it to 30 days after signing the contract we think neither is clear nor logical. It doesn't have to, 'cause technically it could be 35 days, but maybe 54. Let's stay on the principle proposed by the government, we accept it. So, to be after the signing of the Treaty with the EU, but let's not limit it to 30 days because this will be narrowed down primarily by the maneuvering space of the Croatian Parliament. We don't think there's any need for that, because if a referendum is needed, it can be held 20 days after the contract is signed, but if we have to leave that possibility to be 42 days. In any case, the HNS-HSU club has submitted an amendment, we would like the representatives of the government to declare it. He does not go counter to the government's proposal, he only further strengthens it, or creates limits as they are in the original proposal. In this sense, we welcome these changes in the declaration and as a club that brings together 2 parties who are committed to Croatia's EU accession, but quality accession, and that is why we make a full contribution through the work of the National Committee, we remind you that this question is to be agreed on by both the majority and minorities in the Croatian Parliament, because the issue of Croatia's accession to the EU is one of the most important consensus that we have achieved together and that we should work on until the time when we can officially declare that the Republic has become a full member of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63740	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, and the first is Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63741	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's what I'd like to briefly look back on these changes to this declaration and put a few facts forward. We all remember that the Republic of Croatia only had one state referendum and that was the one on May 19th, '91. 20 years later, there was a second referendum. I would say that EU membership is not a question of the end of the negotiation process but of the future of Croatian democracy and independence. I would like to take advantage of this occasion and mention and remind us of that famous speech by the first Croatian President Tudjman, who said at the first session of the Multi-party Parliament "In European integration Croatia must ensure its own selfishness and faster progress". So, I want to show a thread from the first multilateral parliament to today, and I hope so, and it seems to me so to my knowledge that there is no serious anti-European party in the Republic of Croatia today after 20 years. So, I want to support the proposal for this declaration, but what I want to draw attention to is that a strong communication strategy should be launched urgently, regardless of what it is already in place, but I think that Croatian citizens should be more motivated to think more positively about the EU. Some analysts say the HDZ intends to base its campaign precisely on the EU as a story of its success. I just want to use this discussion so that we shouldn't be challenged by anyone, given this idea, which is in the very foundations of the Croatian state, and it's written in all the documents. It's great that we have a consensus on it, it's great that all parties are pro-European-oriented and it's also good that through constitutional changes we've changed the provisions on this binding referendum that allows me to be convinced of the positive result, and this very high positive result of the vote. Analyzing the experiences of other countries as we have heard from the Minister and from other clubs is more responsible to propose that citizens vote on the basis of the final text and we believe that the amendment to this Declaration is very important. When we talk about 30 days, I think that 30 days is a good time and there is no reason why the Croatian Parliament can't meet in 30 days, and there is also a saying in the people "to cook iron while it's hot", so I think that 30 days is enough time on the wave of contract signing that Croatian citizens will surely react positively, but that we all have to engage, we must. THAT the role of MPs is very important in the next year to two days and that parliamentary diplomacy will come to full prominence this time. In any case, I support the amendments to this Declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63742	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63743	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. First of all, I would like to express my surprise to you, Mr Minister, that you have not been able to propose a change in the text of the Declaration to propose the whole text, but only one point that you propose to change. In the last term when she was adopted, you were a parliamentary representative and you led a committee, if she is not mistaken, so for colleagues and colleagues who were not representatives in the previous term or were so they forgot, except for what you mean to mess up and change the Declaration, let me remind you of three provisions of the text of the Declaration. By defining itself as the values and objectives on which the European Union rests, and by accepting the principles on which the Constitution of the European Union is based, which after 2005, has been changed, you know this as the foreign minister, as well as the appreciation of the culture of respect for diversity, tolerance, solidarity and equality, the preservation of identity, language, tradition and partnership between countries. It's one of the preambles of the Declaration. It is mentioned to preserve the language, Croatian. The second, however, is the preamble: Wanting membership in the European Union to be an expression of the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a decision based on as much information as possible and a transparently guided process of negotiations in which the National Forum will be discussed regularly and publicly, the word National Forum, was written in a capital letter "N". In the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and other initiatives and open dialogue with all factors. I continue to quote the text of a declaration whose change you propose. Point 6. The Croatian Parliament stresses the need to ensure the transparent conduct of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union as well as its role in the debate on all relevant issues arising from the negotiations, that is, point 6. And point 8 of Mr. Minister, and in 2005, if I'm not mistaken, it was December 2005, is it December? Somewhere around Christmas, we gathered in these halls in the Assembly at critical moments before the start of the negotiations and entered point 8. As a key point of agreement of all parliamentary parties and independent representatives who said that a referendum would take place in Croatia before the signing of the Accession Treaty and you are now proposing that it be implemented after the signing of the Treaty. And you don't interpret that proposal, or explain it in absolute terms, by any kind of value, by any reason, for any reason, I read what you're writing, and in the light of your proposal, there's nothing, Mr. Minister. But I must remind you that on that same day, the Croatian Parliament adopted another document called the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on joint action in the process of membership negotiations in the European Union, which we also agreed to in these fateful dinners in the halls on the right of this Assembly. Among other things, which also states that the Government and the Parliament promise transparent publicly available information full of guidance as well as open and transparent conduct of the negotiation process, during which all factors need to be guaranteed the right to information and dialogue. By the way of the National Forum, Mr. Minister. And here in that statement the word National Forum is written in a capital letter "N". It was then necessary to support Ivo Sanader because the next day after the debate on the statement and the Declaration travelled to Brussels, and indeed these were key moments, and the hours to open the negotiations both with that statement and the Declaration of Executive and Legislative Authority announced a party and political consensus that Croatia wants to join the European Union. The people, the citizens of this country, no one has asked anything before today. I repeat the key words of both documents, Mr. Minister, the expression of the will of the citizens, as well as the better information, the transparent conduct of the negotiating process, the National Forum, the open dialogue with all the factors. Those are the quotes from the Declaration and the statements. Now I'm asking you five questions. First question. What changed in Croatia to your personal vision, which you then advocated in 2005 as the HDZ headed by Sanader that the referendum must be held before the accession treaty is signed? What's the big deal new? Is it Europe asking us, or did you then misrepresent the process of order of full EU membership actions, or did you not know whether the then foreign minister or chief negotiator misinformed you? As far as I know, none of this is true? Second question. Under what referendum law will this referendum be conducted? Is he written, ready? Do you, as foreign minister, know if your colleague is writing and preparing a new Law on Referendum and what provisions there will be around the European referendum? Don't quote me constitutional changes, I know them. Third question. The success, foundation and democracy of the referendum is also assessed in the order of the electoral or voting lists. What did you do to keep the referendum open until the day they were held? You are one of the three most responsible ministers, and you gave up the new Law on residence as the basis of fixing voter signatures because you sold the budget for the SDSS votes for giving up the law. Question 4. Minister Shuker and Mlakar said the referendum is only worth 50m kunas in the budget, as it will not be voted in Guatemala, Mexico and Nicaragua. You know that the Constitutional Court's decision that electoral law and the right to refer can't depend on the place of residence, but depends on the nationality of the Republic of Croatia, so at this referendum the voters of the Republic of Mexico, Nicaragua, Zanzibar and Tungusia will also refer to their fellow members of the Government. And question 5. What is the legal and political position of the Republic of Croatia if you convince the Prime Minister to sign the accession treaty and he does not pass the referendum? What then? What happens then? Consider the procedure. You sign an access contract, you paralyze and the Prime Minister signs, and the citizens refuse in the referendum. What is the political position of Croatia then in Europe? The ambassador of America slapped you yesterday and told you for a year you threw and spent on Europe and forgot about Croatia. Minister, you've got a pay phone. Answer me from the pay phone. Don't yell at me. I asked you a question publicly. In 2005, you were in the Parliament when we brought these documents and you brought them on behalf of the ruling majority...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63744	Thank you. Before that, the replica one and then we'll do it. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63745	What you have stated can also be said that I firmly believe that it will be done as soon as possible next year that such a contract will be signed and that I will also say something about legal political implications, and probably the minister will have something to say. But the thing is, we're gonna get ours at a good university. What kind of students are we? Did we master that basic material? These are still problems that we need to deal with quickly, and which we unfortunately also see with this budget that neither structural nor reform procedures are going in that direction. And what has been voted out, what is normative, the practice is taking a deep breath, and the check is exactly what the EU is doing. Not only have we written down but what we live and what we witness with daily work and work. Your question is what are the legal implications, and I believe that people will say yes. However, our problems are not solved in the EU, but higher standards are required of us. And our government has not solved the problems, because Croatia is successful not only in the EU but then new standards are created. But a better life depends on how successful the government is in the home state. But you've mentioned here well those far away already opening pre-accession negotiations in 2005, you're talking about these congratulations, you're talking about Eve Sanader. Let us remember that immediately the next day was caused by nothing, someone else came forward but then the man Wolfgang Kulterer who said this: "I first congratulated my great friend Prime Minister Sanader with whom I concluded the first big deal in Croatia". That was 2005. And now count five years back that year so you can count what Feral wrote and what our media wrote. But now it's the subject of international investigations. Well, it's a good thing you called from your colleague, Shakespeare, I think you're supporting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63746	Feral went out, so let's shut it down, too. Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63747	There are all kinds of Ferals, some of which have been extinguished at the happiness of the Croatian people, some of which are still bright and have been MPs like me behind the pillar. You see, this column is always in front of me, so I'm the only agent. You see a real advocate. These are all the presidents and I'm the representative. Do the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are entitled to public speech against joining the EU? I think they do. I speak and question and on their behalf. The amendment was not December, as the declaration of publication was January 24, 2005. But what is particularly frantic is that the person who was then a representative and the chairman of the board, and today the foreign minister, the same document, the same fact, the most important moment of decision by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the referendum, is unable to explain what has changed significantly that we are therefore deciding about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia after the accession treaty is signed. What you're saying is, in 2005, you didn't know what you're writing in the declaration, either foreign affairs or the prime minister or you, or there's fear in the background, a terrible fear that the referendum might still fail after constitutional changes that would allow the HDZ's main board to come out and vote for, half of them. The second time, Minister, be at least so capable and competent that the document you are changing is fully given, and you did not give it, you did not give the full text of the declaration...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63748	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63749	And give an explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63750	That's the answer to the replica. Minister Jandrokovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63751	I thank you, Mr. President, as I also thank the clubs of HDZ, SDP, HNS and HSU for a very constructive contribution. I also thank Mr. Lesar, who, if I recall correctly, was also a representative of the CNS as I was president of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, so you changed your colors and changed your rhetoric and as far as I can see, it seems to me that you would like to take over perhaps a banner of those who oppose Croatia's entry into the European Union because you think it is politically opportunized. But I'd like to ask you now not to threaten me with that finger because it's not very scary. I can see you even though you're behind the pillar. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63752	Please. Please! Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63753	Okay, mostly, I'll answer a few of your questions that you asked. So, you pointed out the National Forum, I don't know why you pointed it out, you probably didn't follow his work. He held 18 meetings all over Croatia. After the National Forum is finished with our work we continue with these activities and just fellow State Secretary Plenkovic is almost every week in one of the Croatian counties where he informs Croatian citizens, entrepreneurs, farmers, students and all those interested citizens about what the European Union will bring to the Republic of Croatia and what are good, positive things, which are possibly less good. Therefore, support for EU membership has also increased, and this latest survey conducted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration shows that out of 70% of those who go out, 62% would vote for Croatia's entry into the European Union and that is the highest percentage back several years of Croatian citizens and citizens who would support Croatia's entry into the European Union. As for the explanation that you were in the conference room when I was talking about it then you'd probably hear why we decided to change the maintenance period, I don't know maybe you were in the bar, but I didn't see you here, then you'd know why we were changing. And I don't think we have anything to be ashamed of because we decided to hold a referendum after the conclusion of the negotiations, and before the signing, we brought everyone together because at that time in 2005, it seemed better, that it was more useful for Croatia. I could not be informed by the main negotiator because at the time the main negotiator was not, you also did not know when you called the main negotiator in your performance. He wasn't there yet. And that decision has been made primarily for the reasons why we want citizens and citizens at the moment of making such an important decision, such as membership in the European Union, to be absolutely sure of what it means and to know the conditions under which it happens, and it is possible only when the conditions of membership are fully clear, legally defined and final, and this will happen precisely with the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. So we believe that citizens have the right to decide whether they want Croatia in the European Union or not, after the whole process is fully completed. At that moment in 2005, all those who decided on it, the then prime minister, the leader of the opposition, the representatives of all parliamentary parties, took part in that moment, and so did I, who was chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, seemed better to us. However, today after five years and a few months, we think it is more right, more fair to Croatian citizens that they decide at the referendum after we sign the accession agreement. So there's no fear, there's no reason to hide anything. The only reason is because we think it is more correct and better for Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens. Furthermore, you mention Ambassador Folio. If you followed closely what the Ambassador said then you would see that what Croatian Television and Croatian Television Log yesterday did is something that is not in line with professional standards of journalism, that they reversed one statement by the ambassadors of the United States and tried to manipulate that title and tried to interpret his statement that he said you should choose between reforms for the European Union and economic reforms. Of course that's not true, nor did the ambassador say so. He said we must concentrate, of course, on the European Union, but also on changing the entrepreneurship climate, on everything that is necessary to attract investors and more strongly move towards economic recovery and economic growth. So it's not exactly what you're saying. You might want to, but unfortunately for you, it's not like that. As far as legal implications are concerned, so you said you were speaking on behalf of those who oppose joining the European Union, so I have the right to polarise probably with you, or you think that if you are against the European Union that we who are supposed to be silent about your arguments, although very often these arguments are not serious but are the fruit of your desire to draw attention to yourself and try to get what political point from those who are not for Croatia to enter the European Union. But the Croatian Democratic Community, the party leading this coalition, all coalition partners and the vast majority of other parties here in Parliament, advocates Croatia's entry into the European Union. It is good, it is useful for Croatian citizens, for Croatian citizens. And I am quite sure that in the referendum that will take place in the dynamics that we have now announced, once again I would like to thank all those who support it, that in this referendum they will decide positively and support Croatia's entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63754	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63755	Mr. Minister, you said I've changed my attitude since 2005. No, I have not changed my position on the European Union. And then today at the referendum I would and I will vote for. But it is terribly important, so it is your fault to allow citizens to vote on it as agreed in 2005, before signing an access contract. I'm not going to use the cynicism and the insolence that you've been serving. Before this morning, the Kukurik coalition was terribly intruding. You referred to their account, your colleagues from the government. and the representative of the great word, and now you thank them in the end. [[President: What is the correction?]] In 2005, when the statement and the declaration were made, I was in the Assembly, in the meeting hall that Mr. Shakespeare called, so I know their contents, and you were at the hairdresser's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63756	Here's the time, and the correction didn't, at least I didn't understand it. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63757	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the proposal to amend this Declaration of Citizens and Citizens of the Republic of Croatia will decide to join the European Union in a referendum to be held 30 days from the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Therefore, expectations are that, on the wings of this signing of a major event for the Republic of Croatia, the referendum will undoubtedly succeed, that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia will recognise all the benefits of full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the Union and will vote largely in favour. The fact is that various public opinion studies are already being conducted today and that these results are very, very different already on who is conducting or financing the studies. However, in the situation of political warming, it is not rational to expect that a positive outcome of any referendum on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union will take place on its own. Because the masses have their will, their wisdom and should work very hard to spread awareness of the benefits of the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. But then, assuming that the referendum goes beyond the period where the countries, the members of the European Union must also approve the membership of the Republic of Croatia in that large democratic community of the people. Most of this will happen in national parliaments, but it is not excluded that some of the Member States of the European Union will also hold a referendum on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full EU membership. It is simply so, and we cannot have much influence besides showing ourselves as a nice, good, advanced, democratic country that is good, important, beautiful and useful in the European Union and that the will of Member States manifests itself in a way that accepts us with open arms. However, the fact is that some events are very doubtful of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. some of its irresponsible citizens, lead to a difficult situation. Hugging foreign players at football stadiums, dealing with certain situations in World War II, i.e. a very doubtful view of the criminal character of the independent state of Croatia, comments that are available under the portals of all major media. Here are the articles on the portals relating to the referendum on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, so let's look at the comments below and see all the horrors and anger of attitudes related to our relatively recent past. Many of these comments were simply erased because of the inappropriateness of chauvinistic and Ustashaid attitudes. And it's a good thing they're wiped out. However, the fact is that we all have to deal with these situations far more than we do with leaving our friends in the European Union with no doubt that the Republic of Croatia has fought heroically against the brutal aggressor to fight its independence and set foot in the path of democracy and progress towards full membership in the European Union without any last thought or stain on conscience. And then, in this context, no muttering will be necessary, but indeed the outcome will be favourable for the Republic of Croatia in all segments. Dear Mr. Minister, dear Mr. Secretary of State, let us work on these segments to combat such deviations of xenophobia, non-democratic behavior to facilitate our position among our European friends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63758	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63759	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, It is quite clear that at least here in this assembly we believe that the EU, or that European Croatia is our future. If the EU were the only way for Croatia and to stay out of European integration, it would be disastrous for our country. Also, we also agree that this is really the last round, 2011 must be the year when we end the negotiations. Everything else is also agreed that it would be catastrophic and political and financial for our country, and accordingly, I think that we really need to finish this trip very carefully, hopefully by mid-2011. And with the signing and the referendum we are also given this new goal – to reduce euroscepticism in the country and to provide a significant majority for the referendum itself. Accordingly, I believe that communication must now be crucial in this country, it must be precise and my personal opinion is that it must be micromed. It is an honor to our 2006 communication strategy, but if you look at the media today and analyze the media you will get that through the media the most of course, which is understandable, the former Prime Minister, now Prime Minister, there was the foreign minister, there was the head of the negotiating team and some European politicians. They make up most of the media cakes when talking about the EU. Now, at this point in time for the end of this story and for the referendum, of course, it is not enough, and therefore I suggest that it must be a little different to communicate that it must be a micro-communication, a micro-management in communication, in order that, as the minister has now said, citizens get an informed decision, actually make a decision based on information, i.e. informed decision, and here I will now express a few examples. I personally think, Mr. Minister, that after signing the Treaty of Accession itself and then going into one particular communication, it would be too late for a lot of things to be campaigned on. So that's one element, but personally I think that if we go to students and young people who really are, you've seen these results of these polls, it's a shame that our young people have this kind of thinking about the EU when the EU, as I just said in the last speech, offers them the most. And a unique education space and a single labour market, a whole system of volunteer work. So then we look at a survey that was conducted a few years ago in a university where students do not know who is headed by the European Commission, where they do not know the relations of parliament, councils and commissions and where a significant number of them did not know how many EU members there are in 2008. The numbers ranged from 12 to 85. So it's a microcommunication that needs to go now, now. Likewise, when we look at farmers talking here, it is clear to the farmer that different policies are going with the EU. That in agricultural policy, Croatia teaches part of its sovereignty to Europe and that there are significant resources ahead of them, but there is, but provided that there is a certain level of quality in production. And yes, you should tell them there you can rely on your country, the Republic of Croatia, which will help you financially get to that level. The third thing you think about taking advantage of is cross-border cooperation and existing projects that have ended from pre-accession funds. The best way to communicate with the citizens of Europe is when he sees in his place that thanks to some EU project, the river's coast is arranged, the garbage dumps are gone, some tourist offer has been launched, traditional craftsmanship has been strengthened, a mini heat has been created, a water purifier is being solved. So citizens who have felt the benefits of the EU in a good way on their skin. I think such examples and such communication will give you a better result than coming with the document and you say look, we signed this now, it's our accession contract, here's the membership terms. I think this will be a much better way to communicate, microcommunication that needs to be started immediately. Unfortunately, when you look at the Croatian media and watch what is communicated to communicate and the advantages, but often Europe of Maltese communicates through black chronicles. About how someone's gonna grease the mustache, about how it's gonna go down this one or that one. Therefore, it must go clearly and loudly with a good strategy that will indeed show benefits and challenges and show examples of good practice here, which the EU means good for Croatia. That's a good strategy for you, colleagues and colleagues. So immediately communicate the benefits and challenges, right away clearly, I said it last time in the last speech, make it clear what the objectives of this country's structural reforms are that we are constantly lacking, by administration, local self-government, agriculture, etc. We must give a message that we are going to the EU because we are ready, not because here we are just to run as fast as possible. It is a message to be sent by communication and immediately, not after the signing of the access contract. Because the success of the referendum must be the result of a good communication policy, of communicating Europe to the citizens, and not that actually by signing an access contract we create communication topics to make the referendum successful, you understand. Therefore, communication must produce this result without signing an access contract because it is already too late. Bad communication, I urge you especially to the ruling majority, not to use such rhetoric. Bad communication is saying Europe will save us, as I said half an hour ago, and bad communication is going to get us 3.5 billion euros. Yes, these are the money available and that at this time Croatia i.e. It'll be us, it doesn't have the capacity to do it. At the end of the last round of enlargement, the country did not have any, so we will have compensation available to compensate for the difference between the membership fee we must give and the money we will withdraw. To speak 3.5 billion euros just like that is really a bad way to communicate because what happens when these money is not used? Also, I believe that proper communication that must begin must be followed immediately by a lobbyist strategy. We have to lobby for Croatia, we have to lobby that the better, the smoother the ratifications by parliaments, we have to look for friends already now in order to make the best of the 2014 positions and further that we all have to get stuck together because if something goes wrong, God doesn't let something go wrong, then the political and financial consequences for Croatia will be great, and then blame us all together as politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63760	Thank you. Two replicas, first Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63761	In the debate, you referred to the lack of information in the Republic of Croatia especially the younger generation and even the elements of Euroscepticism towards membership in the European Union. However, I regret to remind myself once again that there is a two-way situation, that the citizens of the European Union are already exhausted by enlargement and that simply according to the results of the Euro-barometer, their support for enlargement to new members is discriminatory. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia needs to send a clear message to its citizens as to why it is important and useful membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, while Europe needs to send a smart, well-structured, well-structured message that we as a country are ready for membership in the European Union and that we have a lot to offer to the Union democracy, skills, and a beautiful environment which we are so happy to praise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63762	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63763	Thank you very much, it should be used and said that Croatia will give the European Union added value, that is almost certain, in Europe there is a government of certain skepticism, and that should be said about enlargement due to part of the economic crisis, due to some unfortunate events related to Bulgaria, Romania and Greece, but Croatia is not Romania, is not Bulgaria and let's hope it will never be Greece. If it were at least that minimum threshold that Croatia will be able to skip then the same way that Europe will not be a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63764	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63765	You're talking about communication, you're talking about how this communication has to be better, and you're talking about how young people express great skepticism. However, young people observe, believe not only in the word but believe in what they see and see the government speak, its mouth is full of Europe and living day by day is getting worse. Our people are simply aware and do not want to enter the European Union naked and barefoot. You're talking about the many adjustments we have to make, of course it's still standing right in front of us. However, what does our authority do? The lack of reform procedures and the lack of what you've been saying, aims to compensate for what's left of Croatia and what has failed to kidnap many conquerors. We want to be equal with... in our own country. Prepare the Water Act, go to privatization at the small door of Croatian Waters. Are you really going to fulfill that prophecy of the prophet Isaiah will have to buy their own water and buy their own wood?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63766	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63767	Dear colleagues, when I talk about the Alliance for Europe it is quite clear that the SDP initially states that Croatia must be a member of the European Union, that this is the future of the European Union and that it should be worked on. But if we know for years that we need to reform agriculture, public administration, if this has been published scientific papers, work collections and it is funded by the European Union, and the government has not changed that, for which we are not responsible, it is still the responsibility of the HDZ, we will deal with it in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63768	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63769	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In early May 1990, a competition for the Eurovision song was held in Zagreb, and the competition was won by a song marked "In Siema, Unite Europe" that was in Zagreb 20 years ago. So, the first verses of that song are about to say, exactly, the translation from the English "With you so far and different, with you friends that I thought I'd lost", and it seems to me that we're going to have to approach this referendum just like that, no matter how big the differences between us are, and it's not an accident. There is not a single topic in Croatia of democratic history except for the creation of a state around which there has been so much agreement, at least a declaration, and in the most real part between the largest political parties than the accession of Croatia to the European Union. Three months ago, three months before this Eurovision song contest, which was otherwise held a day before the 2nd round of the first multi-party elections, one of the amendments that Milosevic's voting machine refused at the interrupted congress of the party then was to put into the programme that Yugoslavia is moving towards the European Union. 20 years later, the two countries of the Federation are close to the European Union, and the other 4 or 5 depend on how we view countries, far away the European Union with relatively little prospects for any of them to join the European Union in the next decade. In fact, this shows that Croatia has been on the side that it wants, wants and can enter the European Union, some of the other countries cannot, and some of those other countries do not want to join the European Union. Here's a colleague who let Tot Cougn go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63770	Isn't that Lady Gaga?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63771	Will you count me in on all this time? So history will record that a political party in Slovenia went to elections in the 90th year with the slogan "Europe...", though, lost. So the story of the European Union for Croatia will be a story that we will finally hope for, positively and successfully despite all the problems that we do not have to remember now either this year or next year, so I think it takes about a year and a half to ratify the accession contract. However, we still have one more step left that the political elite must do together as sensitive as it is in the pre-election year, it would be much better if the referendum campaign was more like this song that won the Eurovision, so Together, than that one that represented the then-eurovision state, which was called Let's go crazy. Any attempt to use the referendum for pre-election purposes will compromise the one who tries it but also the referendum itself. It is not enough that political elites agree to pass the referendum, it was best seen in the first referendum in Ireland in ratification of the Lisbon Agreement. It is not good to blame Brussels for wanting something without giving us Europe starting with shipbuilding and some other topics that have occupied the Croatian political public and have been quite difficult and sensitive. It is therefore necessary to start the right campaign for the referendum and end it with a convincing victory for those who are for Croatia's accession to the EU. The vote for Europe must not be a vote for the HDZ, nor a vote for the SDP, nor a vote for the HNS, nor a vote for the HSS, nor a vote for any of the Croatian political parties. The vote for Europe and the EU must be a vote for Croatia. And who does not approach the referendum in this way compromises himself but also the idea of the EU. What it'll look like in the election year with the budget that we've brought today and which you've criticised. You of course didn't criticize him. What this will look like at this level of Croatian political culture is going to be a very big challenge for political elites primarily for the ruling party. Croatia's entry into the EU is one of those historic events that every nation remembers in both 100 and 200 years will be read for sure in historical textbooks, as will be read in '95. for Storm, '91. for a referendum on independence, so in historical textbooks there will also be a place for Croatia's entry into the EU. It is absolutely certain that there will be no place for the day-to-day political events that preceded or did not precede this, but it is an opportunity for these generations of politicians to once again show responsibility in accessing the topic. Any attempt to overuse the idea of a referendum and Croatia's entry into the EU for a party policy can be seen as a certain "packing" of Europe. And my message can only be to paraphrase a longtime politician in Europe not to pack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63772	Thank you. Final review. Foreign Minister and European Integration Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here's just a short one at the end of the debate. I thank all those who participated, thank you for the suggestions and the ideas that you presented. In any case, at this final stage, and especially after the signing of the contract and the time to come, and in which ratifications will also be held in the parliaments of the member states, the particularly important role will be your representative and representative in the Croatian Parliament. and I am quite sure that, as you have so far, you will act in one quality way, present the interests of the Republic of Croatia. There were a few suggestions I'd like to comment on briefly. One of them is that proposal from counterpart Mondekara about micro-management and how to inform the public, and until the big campaign that will take place in the last months before the negotiations are over. I have to say that we do these things more with the support of local media that very often well monitors these events, but unfortunately big national media are less aware of these events. Well, that can be understandable. However, I would like to inform you that in the last few months, one of the teams visiting the county was in 19 counties, that this team consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of European Funds, that in this team and members of the resolution ministries, that there are also members of the negotiating team, that they are very often on their way with us and the ambassadors and that they respond to such events are very solid. What is good and useful is that there are representatives of various stakeholders, that there are entrepreneurs, farmers, that there are people who are really interested in what and how the Republic of Croatia will be when one day it joins the EU. We will continue these activities. In the near future, we will visit more universities, universities, high school. We did so recently when we visited the President of the European People's Party of Martens in Osijek. At that time, he and some members of the negotiating team and government both spoke at the University and High School in Osijek, and certainly it is an important part of the political action and in fact our duties, as well as the rights of citizens to be informed about what the EU is bringing them. There have also been comments on skepticism about enlargement in EU member states. And that's right. No more enthusiasm when it comes to enlargement. What Croatia is going through today is a unique case, the latest enlargements occurred in the atmosphere of enthusiasm towards enlargement. However, we have now practically completed the negotiations, we will be able to finish them, that is the consensus position of all the member states, all their representatives. But the fact is that this makes it difficult for us to work together, and in particular it will make it more difficult for those who will come behind us where we will certainly interpret our experiences by trying to help all the countries in Southeast Europe who are planning to achieve full membership. Why the referendum within 30 days of the signing of the contract? Why is it better that it happens as soon as possible? So not only do we maintain a positive moment, but also because we need it to be clear that no member state will ratify our agreement before we do it ourselves. Col. Beus said that we should leave the period between negotiating and ratification, we must do so very quickly in order to leave the EU member states alone so that they can ratify the agreement as soon as possible. I have already been told by several colleagues from European countries that it will be them that their parliament will be the first to ratify, but I assure you from the experience of past enlargements, no member parliament will ratify the accession contracts of the Republic of Croatia before we finish our own business. And it is to complete negotiations, sign a contract, implement a referendum and ratify an agreement. So it seems to me that it is better to do so as soon as possible and I think it is useful for Croatia. And finally here I want to thank everyone again for the debate. Obviously, there is a broad consensus on Croatia's need to become a full member. The strong support we have received from all of you is to continue equally in line at this job, to complete the negotiations as soon as possible. And I believe that we will all ultimately truly celebrate the day when Croatia will take its place where it belongs or will finally return to the family of European peoples where it belongs and that, of course, in the membership of the European Union, we will be able to defend the national interests of the Republic of Croatia even more strongly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63774	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63775	We move on to the proposal to amend the Declaration on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, the Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HNS and HSU Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the foreign minister's representative, Mr Gordan Jandrokovic, to declare on the amendment of the HNS and HSU Club, which concerns Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure, but on the fundamental principles of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63776	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored MPs and MPs. The government refuses to amend the HNS Club, HSU. Explain why 30 days. The necessity of holding a referendum directly or in the shortest time after the signing of the accession treaty stems from the fact that the contract does not take effect by the very act of signing it, but after confirmation, or ratification by the Republic of Croatia, as well as by all Member States of the European Union. In accordance with the experience of the new Member States, the ratification procedure by the European Union shall take at least one year. The process of ratification of the accession treaty in the Member States of the European Union will certainly not begin before the contract gets legitimacy from Croatian citizens in the referendum, i.e. it is ratified in the Croatian Parliament. It is therefore important to complete the procedure in haste, without delay, and political tactics. Prolonging the period during which a referendum is to be held, and consequently ratifying the accession treaty in the Croatian Parliament would also mean prolonging the very entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63777	Thank you. On behalf of the club Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63778	We regret that this argument has been used to say that the government does not accept this proposal, because it is the government that politicises on this issue, among other things, with its agreement to hold a referendum on the day of the so-called referendum. The famous referendum on the referendum. Therefore, the purpose of our amendment was not at all to shorten or extend the deadlines, but to leave the Croatian Parliament with the autonomy of making a decision that can be made within 15 days, without any problem, but if set like this for 30 days, it significantly limits the possibility of the Parliament to decide. We don't think that's necessary, and that our argument doesn't go against the basic intensity of the changes in the declaration itself at all, but as much as possible, and what you've done is actually narrowing down space. In that sense, unfortunately, we will refrain from voting for your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63779	Who is for this amendment? Who's to propose an amendment to a club the government doesn't accept? Please raise your hand. We'll vote on the amendments by raising our hands. Please count. But I can say right away that he didn't get the necessary majority. I am giving the amendment to the Declaration on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Let's please get involved and vote on the amendment of the declaration. The result? The declaration was passed by most votes, 97 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63780	We'll skip points 11 and 12 because there's no conditions. We move to the debate on - Final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the EU co-financing project ISPA 2007-2011, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 640 Committees on legislation, spatial planning and construction, finance and the state budget conducted the debate. You received the reports at the session. The applicant's representative has no intention to explain the proposal. The committee's reporters? Legislative? A spacious device? Construction? Finance and the state budget? They have no intention. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative's club, Mrs. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, Croatia has been using a number of years of European Union assistance programmes, but in fact, the possibility of funding serious infrastructure projects exists only for the past few years. Just to mention from these major infrastructure projects that are the subject of this contract, it is the rehabilitation of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railway line, it is the rehabilitation of the Railway Station in the City of Zagreb, it is the rehabilitation and construction of the dump in Bikarc Sibenik, Mariški Rijeka, the water purifier in Karlovac, Slavonski Brod and could be reduced to a series of projects that are or will be agreed in various parts of Croatia. In fact, the rules for financing these projects provide for the use of grants from pre-accession funds in one part. They can be a maximum of 75%, and all other funds must be found either from other funds, hence loans from other international financial institutions or from state budget funds. I don't think we should talk at this point about how important it is for Croatia to do these infrastructure projects. They are important as projects as agreed, however it is equally important that Croatian companies can also participate in the implementation of these projects and as consultants and in other ways with their goods and services so that the multiplier effect of these money coming to Croatia is extremely large. This is precisely because of the importance of these projects, the Government has decided to find a quality and sustainable co-financing solution and is thus found in the loan of the European Investment Bank. In particular, the European Investment Bank is the European Union Development Bank which supports the financing of investment projects and in candidate countries, and what is particularly important in this case gives loans under extremely favourable conditions. Here, esteeming that these are extremely important projects, which are mostly provided with grants from EU funds, we hold that the European Investment Bank loan is, in this case, the best solution for co-financing and will therefore support the Croatian Democratic Community's adoption of the law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63782	Thank you. The HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63783	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the EU IPA Co-financing Project 2007-2011. It is, in fact, a loan intended to co-finance already authorised individual projects within the European Union, the pre-accession ISPA IPA funds would be financed by a loan from the EIB instead of the state budget. The total cost of EU co-financing project IPA ISPA 2007-2011 was estimated at 816.54m euros. The European Investment Bank confirmed co-financing of project costs through loans of 200m euros, European funds of 593.2m euros, while the rest of the 23.3m euros are provided from other sources of funding. The financing contract includes an indicative list of projects and concerns IPA components ranging from 1 to 4, including transnational programmes of Southeast Europe and the Mediterranean, operational programmes, transport, environmental protection, regional competitiveness and human potential development and ISPA projects: the reconstruction of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railway line, the state border and the Bikarac regional waste management centre in Sibenik-Knin County. It also highlights those large investment projects that are set at more than 10m euros and are mainly in the Operational Programme for Transport and the Environment. It is about the reconstruction and reconstruction of the railway on Okucani-Novska, the construction of drafts and other projects of documentation for the construction of the second track, the construction of a new two-way track on the railway section of the long village-Novska. Then draw up drafts and other project documentation for the construction of a new two-way railway line on the section of the Goljak-Skradnik railway line, drawing up drafts and other project documentation for the construction of the new two-way railway line Zaprešić, Horvati, Turopolje, Long Village and System of Signal and Security Devices of the Zagreb Main Station. When we talk about the Operational Programme of the Environment, these are mainly waste management centres in the Marine and Kashtiun and the water supply and disposal system in Slavonski Brod, Knin and the town of Drniš. Of course, regional competitiveness is also important in that part. I would especially single out the one relating to the business infrastructure for which two tenders have already been held, and it is about the grant of grants to the users of regional local self-government units, public institutions, municipalities, cities, county, public enterprises, associations and tourist communities from 10 counties identified as the most undeveloped according to the number of entrepreneurs and the development of business infrastructure, and it is about Virovitical-Podravska, Vukovar-Srijemska, Brod-Posavina, Sisak-Moslavina, Sibenik-Kninska, Osijek-Baranja, Ličko-Senjska, Požeko-Slavonska, Karlovakia and Zadar County. The total amount of EU funds from the IPA Fund for this grant scheme is 19.16m euros for the period from 2007 to 2011. The minimum and maximum values of individual grant schemes with the possibility of co-financing of the share of end-users from the state budget range from 325000 to 1 million euros. The Croatian Peasant Party Club believes that all of these projects that are listed, but which we can also see in the tables prepared by the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are extremely valuable and useful, that it is important that they are certainly completed. This also requires the provision of funding in the domestic component and, of course, since it is large amounts, that is why this financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank is actually confirmed. We at the HSS Club will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63784	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63785	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support this bill and, as I said this morning, at the point of adoption of the state budget, we always support all good ideas, good proposals, and this bill is certainly one of the good moves of the Government, because this bill, as my colleague said, creates next to that basic idea and basic reason, the basic missions of these funds that we follow with this bill, creates a multiplier effect on the Croatian economy, which is something that is most necessary at the moment, something that is most necessary and essential that can create a very different picture of some future state budgets than what is adopted today. The fact is, with this, with efficiency in using pre-accession programs, we're particularly bad IPAs, that's a fact. And the fact is that something far stronger, in a stronger amount, awaits us through structural and cohesion funds, the fact that something far stronger awaits us through funding from the funds of the common agricultural policy and the fact that we are practically at the beginning in that space and the fact that in that space we are organisationally absorbed extremely poor. Well, I'm taking the opportunity to warn in front of the HNS and HSU clubs about that fact as we do every time we do every moment because we still don't have all the sectoral strategies. It is known and clear that the European Commission does not release funding if a project or a series of projects are not included in a specific strategy for very clear reasons. It is that these reasons are not very common to us, which is that Europe wants a clear picture of the effects or effects on every cent invested or for every euro invested, and that is why strategies are important. We don't have rural development strategies. We bring them only supposed to expect it next year, covers a huge part of the area, over 90% of this country in development terms, over 200 million euros annually, and we don't have this basic, basic, strategic document. We have a game of various foundings and suspensions of the agency within the Ministry of Agriculture, but in this way we do one extremely great damage to all agricultural producers in terms of reducing the opportunities of those provided to them. Regional development is also, unfortunately, below zero, I'm not going to say zero, but below zero. Because... Now he doesn't know whether regional development is run by the Ministry of Regional Development or run by the Ministry of Economy, which are our sectoral strategies, which are economic branches, how, in which way, regional roads enter the railways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All the contests are down. All tenders at this time to prepare the documentation through public procurement have fallen at the moment. No competition is in place, and the Commission is in charge of public procurement due to lack of capacity because there are insufficient numbers of people who simply work within their capabilities. Therefore, we are aware and the fact is and we warn again that because of our conditional ability or clear incompetence, we are reducing ourselves to the possibility of what is being given to us and it is therefore important to finally form one system, a system that gives results, not a system that satisfies the form, but a system that gives results and a system that will allow all our counties, municipalities, cities, all of our regions, to take advantage of that opportunity that opens up to our entry into the European Union with more than the state budget of all these years has been taken away in such a way that there is simply no chance of recovering in the near or short time and therefore it is important to support such proposals of the law that what we ourselves have lost, what we ourselves have not earned to compensate for our development with such projects and such financial resources. Among other things, for this reason, the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63786	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63787	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. So the SDP club supports this bill. Just like everyone else here, we feel that every euro is welcome for this country, especially when we are talking about infrastructure projects. This is a very good thing, we have to do our job here as much as possible. Infrastructure major projects are indeed a good school for our entrepreneurs when we talk about selling goods, works and services. We, as well as the HNS Club, have followed the issues that have been related to HH and infrastructure and European funds and competitions that have been faced with problems. So we still have to learn about it. Now when we say this briefly about why and we accept that a general picture when we talk about pre-accession programmes, when we talk about community programmes, means no matter what big infrastructure projects are going to do, what we need and what we need more and what we need in the future financial period, and I had this "honor" under quotes, so I had insight into major infrastructure projects, in the documentation of major infrastructure projects, in Romania and in Germany, and in Germany, etc., and this is really about huge, huge amounts of documents, when someone says the points of full paper, that's it. These are full rooms from the top to the bottom of the project documentation, and then I want to tell you in a big way now, no matter what we all support today, we're still a big part of it we're not ready for. We still lack the staff, according to the European Commission's estimates, even 5 to 10 times as much as we have. Our assessment in the SDP is 5 to 7 times as much footage as we need. We also need significant funds in the budget to be as ready as possible for a key year, and if the ratification period is about a year and a half before the next year, it means the start of a financial 7-year period, when Croatia will have to fight for as much money as possible in the next period. In order for Croatia to succeed, I have already said this once, that I am not talking about the complexity of the formula, that will be our GDP, that will be our usability of the funds that we have used from this 2012/2013, and that will be the number of prepared projects already for the next financial period. So this is what we are saying today is a good start, i.e. a follow-up and one preparatory point, but we need more money, more people and actually a swing for a large number of projects so that in 2014 we can secure a better position for Croatia. So, so much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63788	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63789	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on the financing of the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the EU co-financing project, IPA, ISPA 2007-2011, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 640. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the EU co-financing project IPA, ISPA 2007-2011. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation was adopted by most votes, 98 votes to, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63790	We skip points 14 through 19 because there are no conditions and we move to point 20. - Report on the financial audit of political parties and independent representatives for 2009. The applicant shall be the State Audit Office which submitted this report on the basis of Article 11. State audit law and Article 20 The law on the financing of political parties of independent lists and candidates. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The government delivered an opinion. You received the reports at the session. Chief State Auditor Sima Krasic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63791	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, here, I'd just like to brief a few facts because this report is really on Parliament's website, and probably our office. It was available to all who had interest at this time to see what was going on and how political parties and independent representatives were doing, so I would. We have carried out another obligation of reviewing the parliamentary political parties of independent representatives for 2009. I will point out once again here that since 2007, the State Audit Office has the power to carry out this audit, the supervision is carried out by the tax administration, meaning the Ministry of Finance. The State Audit Office, as well as all other audits, has carried out a financial audit of the political parties of independent representatives who have been conducted in the same manner and according to the procedures laid down by the State Audit Act with audit standards and the Code of Professional Ethics of State Auditors. In early 2010, all the political parties that did so in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation on the accounting of non-profit organisations were obliged to do so provided financial reports for 2009. It is important to stress that 109 political parties are registered in the Republic of Croatia, that only those parties who make annual revenues above the amount prescribed by the Law on Non-profit Organisations have the obligation to draw up and submit financial reports, i.e. if the value of their assets does not exceed 100 thousand kuna or revenue in the last 3 years. The report was delivered by 11 parliamentary political parties, 10 extraparliamentary and 4 independent deputies. The objectives of the audit were, as always, to verify the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports, to verify the application of laws and other regulations relating to the organisation and financial accounting operations, to verify the regularity of the acquisition of revenue from the budget, voluntary contributions, membership fees and other sources. To verify the correctness of the execution of expenditure, i.e. whether financial resources have been used solely to achieve the objectives set by the programme and the party's statute and to verify the correctness of the execution of other transactions. For the purposes of achieving the objectives mentioned above, the audit procedures shall include financial reports, accounts, lists of assets and liabilities, acquisition of income and execution of expenditure and publication of data on websites that are required to do under the Law on the financing of political parties. The report also includes individual, full reports on the audit carried out by authorised state auditors for 11 parliamentary political parties and 4 independent representatives. They have a total of 186 pages. In this introduction, I will only provide a few basic data on financial operations by revising the covered independent list parties for 2009. All parliamentary parties' revenues amounted to 152 million 508 thousand 617 kuna. The state budget generated 57 million 37 thousand 828 or 7.4%. From the budget of local units 53 million 937 837 or 35.4%, totaling 72.8% of donations 25 million 060 550 or 16.4%, membership fee 7 million 5 000 93 which is 4.6%, and from other sources 9 million 467 304. The expenditure of 11 political parties is 173, 439 478, here we see that the largest material expenditures, expenditures for promotion, donations, depreciation of financial expenditures and others. The lack of revenue over the expenditure of parliamentary political parties totalled 20 million 903 000 861, noting that the deficit had reached 6 political parties. The deficit is offset from the surplus revenue transferred from earlier years and is partly planned to settle in the next period. Incomes of 14 independent deputies amounted to a million 587 thousand 52 kuna, and from this state budget million 584 612 or 99.8%, that almost all revenues were generated from the budget. The expenditure, 4 independent representatives amount to a million 465 347 and for donations, or aid, 673 489, material expenditures 665 657, for employees of 77 thousand 213, depreciation of 40,000, financial expenditures or other expenditures. Excess revenue over the expenditures of independent deputies amounted to 121,000,705 thousand. The most significant areas in which audits have identified irregularities and failures in political parties concern the internal control system of accounting business planning, as well as income acquisition and expenditure execution. And there have been no irregularities among the independent MPs. In accordance with the audit standards and the usual practice of the State Audit Institutions, on the basis of the facts identified, I express my opinion on the financial reports and business of political parties and independent representatives. For political parties, 8 unconditional opinions, 3 conditional, and for all independent MPs an unconditional opinion has been expressed. I must stress here that it is important to inform within 60 days of the political party having certain irregularities of the State Audit Office, what they have done, what they have done and how they intend to remove the irregularities that are being highlighted here. The audit checked whether the parties acted according to the orders given in the previous 2008 report, with a total of 20 warrants. It has been established that the parties have acted on 12 orders and recommendations and that 8 orders and recommendations are still under way. I would also like to emphasise that I have information that the tax administration of its jurisdiction has made control over the payment of the law, income tax, contributions and income tax and that they have reported most likely others, so that the part relating to the payment of taxes and the rest has been made by the tax administration. I have such information. I thank you for your attention, if there are any questions, we will answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63792	Thank you very much. The Finance Committee and the State Budget? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Goran Maric's Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63793	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, a respected state auditor with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. Here is another report by the State Audit, which shows all the scope and complexity of the audit operations of the Republic Parties and independent candidates for 2009 and shows that there are 11 political parties and 4 independent candidates. The scope of the job is seen in the revision of revenues totalling 152 and a half million kuna, of which 57 is from the State budget, 54 from the budget of local units, 7 million from membership fees, 25 million from voluntary contributions, and 9 and a half million from other and other revenues. The total expenditures of 173 million kuna are also shown, which is evident that the lack of revenue over expenditure is shown at almost 21 million kuna. Analysing this audit report, the financial audit carried out in relation to the previous ones can identify continued progress both in the quality of the report and in the findings itself in the review of political parties and independent candidates. Progress is visible but there are shortcomings. The level of responsibility has been increased but there have been identified irregularities. The most frequently identified irregularities relate to the control system, planning and accounting operations, revenue and expenditure. The only important thing to note is that these irregularities are repeated over and over again. The legal framework provides that the planning procedures should cover the creation of an annual work programme and a financial programme that is appropriate and should be in line with the work programme but must contain the income and expenditure structure and the audit found that 10 political parties have drawn up the annual financial plan, and 9 political parties have drawn up a work programme out of a total of 11. Therefore, one party has not drawn up a financial plan, 2 parties have not developed a work programme, and as it is possible that one party has drawn up a financial plan and has not developed a work programme when the financial plan comes from the work programme. It's something that's unusual and unacceptable. What are these parties, which are two parties that have not developed a work programme, which is a party that has not developed a financial plan and which is a party that has developed a financial plan and has no work programme at all and how could it have been designed because it is impossible to develop a financial plan without a work programme because it has to be based on a work programme? It states in the report that the Office is of the opinion that each party should develop both a work programme and a financial report, it is good to write but it is not the subject of opinion, but it is a legal obligation. Each party must also develop a work programme and a financial plan. It has been established that two political parties have not published the final account and financial reports on the website. What's that? We have no information. Two political parties have announced less revenue than actual revenues under won voluntary contributions. It would be interesting to see what two parties are. The audit found that the three political parties failed to submit basic financial reports for the party as a whole. What are three parties? But it's also beautifully written for every commendation when 8 unconditional opinions are expressed. A number of parties, for which the parties were issued unconditional opinions and three parties to which a conditional opinion was given. These three parties should be highlighted because they are not like the other nine states. And those three parties are HSLS, HSU and SDSS. Therefore, these three parties have a conditional opinion as opposed to 8 others who have an unconditional opinion. As far as independent advocates are concerned, they are commendable. They're getting better from year to year. Last year they had only 2.3 non-essential remarks that they had not published their programming reports on the website in time, today their findings are completely neat, the findings of the review for independent representatives are commendable. And there always precedes Mrs. Chuhnil, who has the best finding of the State Audit year by year, so it's time to even boast. They managed their business books neatly, all activities were carried out neatly and were carried out in accordance with the financial plan and in accordance with the work programme. And, of course, for all independent MPs, unconditional opinions have been given. The audit report also provided an overview of the monitoring of the execution of orders and recommendations. It was collected according to 12 orders and recommendations, and 8 orders and recommendations are under way. It would also be interesting to see and it is evident that the same recommendations and findings are repeated again and again, and that, as a rule, these same recommendations and late orders are being removed. So it would be good and especially prominent who they are. Major progress has been made on the content of the report itself, major progress has been made in the transparency of the use of budgets. And the HDZ Club supports this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63794	Thank you. Club of representatives of HSS Mr. Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63795	Dear Vice President, respected state auditors, colleagues and colleagues. Let me first of all thank the State Office for the review of the arrival and financial review of the party's operations on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. It is a pleasure to argue that the State Audit Office has not identified any irregularities or failures in the financial operations of the HSS. The party accepted and acted on the proposed recommendations and proposals to remove irregularities set out in 2008. It is very important to note that this practice of conducting a review of the financial business of political parties is of paramount importance for improving both the business of political parties themselves and the perceptions of the work of political parties in the Croatian public. And HSS certainly used the audit findings to improve and improve its financial operations. We believe that the arrival of the State Audit Office is a great help in removing the gap, and we also thank once again the state auditor and the staff of the State Audit Office who have been doing this certainly extensive and hard work. As a result of this work, we have a comprehensive report ahead of us. The financial audit of political parties and independent representatives for 2009 included 11 parliamentary political parties and 4 independent MPs. The report before us highlights the objectives of the audit, which are to verify the truthfulness and credibility of the financial reports, verify the application of the laws and regulations relating to the organisation and financial accounting operations, check the regularity of the acquisition of income, check the correctness of the execution of expenditure or whether the financial resources have been used exclusively for the achievement of the objectives set out in the programme and statute and verify the regularity of the execution of other transactions. Following the completion of the audit, reports containing a description of the facts related to the work and internal structure and the financial report have been drawn up. The objectives and scope of the audit, the methods and procedures of the audit, the verification of the implementation of the 2008 audit and the recommendations of the audit, the finding in which irregularities are briefly described in respect of the areas covered by these opinions in the financial reports and the business of political parties and independent representatives. The report shows that 11 parliamentary parties are the most revenue generated from the state budget of 37.4%. According to the budget of local units 35.4%, then from voluntary contributions, membership fees and otherwise. The expenditure of political parties relates to expenditure on employees, expenditure on promotion and other material expenditure, then expenditure on depreciation and financial expenditure, expenditure on donations and other expenditure. Political parties spent the most on office material, energy, cost compensation, official travel, telecommunications, mail and transport services, utility services, these services of renting and renting space and equipment. The report identified 5 political parties with a surplus of revenue over expenditure and 6 shortfalls that were offset from the excessively transferred period. Irregularities in financial business have been identified in three parties indicating that a large majority of parliamentary parties, together with independent representatives, have corrected and improved their business where the audit has identified irregularities. However, it should be noted that these irregularities were also minor and although correct, it was still necessary to point out that they would not be repeated. The club of representatives of the HSS welcomes and supports this report, and we thank you for your hard work and well done work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63796	Thank you. And the club of representatives of HSS, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63797	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Mrs. Krasic, colleagues and colleagues. And here we are tonight just a small number, and the subject can't be more interesting than it is, and maybe that's why it is at 18.45 a.m. on the agenda. The country in which the corruption of the towers on all sides, which also includes prominent party officials, the State Audit Report on party business and independent representatives should be a first-class political topic. Well, I'm late for a few hours, so no one would happen to hear us, so take it seriously, and maybe quote, we want this story slowly under the carpet. And it seems to me that, besides the three of us in front of the clubs, there's nobody even reported. And what kind of message is that? Are we aware of what we're actually telling people? If we have nothing to say about it, it means someone might believe we have a quiet deal, don't touch me-don't touch me, don't touch me and don't ask me. And is that good for Croatia, is that good for a country that wants to fight corruption? Of course not. You don't need to look at the hair in someone else's eye, but you need to forget about your eye, but you need to go from yourself, so you have the right to talk about others. The Croatian People's Party-liberal Democrats have been having problems with the State Audit over the past few years, and the problems we have taken very seriously. Some parties aren't. For years, it has not been seen at all what political parties do when it comes to their accounting, accounting, the availability of state money, because the money we have is mostly money from the state budget. And this led to the situation that many political parties were not set up to run these books properly and we had to make great efforts in the CNS to bring things into order because the fact that a large party of 49,000 members organised in several hundreds of branches must find a model by which to control, manage well, and then publicly answer for all that it does. And we're very happy because we did it and because it's definitely clear that in a few years we've brought things to that level that we can say now we've really done a good job. However, when we talk about the State Audit, we have been praising Mrs. Šima Krasic for years saying that her reports from year to year are very correct, thorough, how she brings us bad news, how she is not afraid to present here and the problems, until last year we caught her in the situation that the State Audit had several versions of the report. So one version came to us, the other to the press, the third one was integral, and the three were not making the same conclusions. And here we have a treat this year. Finally, when we add it all together and subtract it, from the State Audit, no harm or benefit, as a milk I would not dare say holy guides. All those notes, remarks, constant failures didn't lead to anyone's hair falling off their heads. Not only when we talk about political parties, but let us remember those strong reports on the implementation of conversion and privatisation where the State Audit has done it correctly, they have found all irregularities and nothing to anyone. And this year we have a treat, so the Croatian Democratic Community is getting an unconditional opinion for several years in a row. Great, appropriate and appropriate to others, excellently managed finances, no mistakes. No problem, no grudges, and the party's cashier goes to Remetinec so the money bags are brought to the party, so the damage to the Fami Media alone is estimated already, as 80 million kunas are coming out to be used for whatever purposes, and the spokesman says yesterday after the released director of the Fami Media and the former director of the customs administration were released after giving statements in which they admitted the committing of the crime. And the burden is placed on them that from state-owned companies they pulled money out of Fimi Media which was then washed and spent for various purposes, among other things, to buy the famous blinded BMW from which it gave up before registration and was sold. This is the BMW we didn't find in the 2008 report, but it was sold neatly and that money was deposited at the expense of the Croatian Democratic Community. What about the fact that to this day we don't know the structure of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's campaign's income in the presidential election of the last. How can Mrs Krasic come before this House today and say that the Croatian Democratic Community has an unconditional opinion after all this has happened when it was established that people who ran finances in Croatia are sitting in prison on heavy charges that they have therefore drawn money from public companies for the account of party people and parties as such. How can we trust your reports? I'm sorry that the end of your career, because I assume you're about to retire, end up in such an ugly shadow. You've created one image, one image of yourself, one of which you're in charge of. You've worked hard, worked hard. By the number of hours of work, it's hard for you to measure anyone, even though all those agencies that I call squirm baths from miles to miles, because in them, our civil servants do seven or eight things a year. So, compared to them, you're a big ant. You've done a lot of work, and that's a fact. But it seems like it's all coming down to paraphrasing a fellow member of the Parliament for a visit, to find out, to write down and forget. Here is the balance Mrs Krasic of everything you have done in the revision of the business of political parties. So, you weren't a person and your institution wasn't the one who pointed out irregularities in the functioning of political parties, and that was your job, it was done by someone else, it was a whistler who pulled the story of Fimi Media in public. It was done by a citizen, and it was your job. And today USKOK, today the State's Attorney's Office is doing a great job, not because you've informed them, but because one citizen whistler who was threatened with words of silence and don't write, be smart, and I heard those words in my ears when that gentleman told me this at the time, so I know very well what form he's working on. So only after that began to unwrap the ball from which it was apparent that political parties could abuse their social function, their position and their influence. I repeat, I'm sorry, Mrs Krasic, that this is how you end your career. Everything seemed different, but overnight everything turned from fairy tale to nightmare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63798	Thank you. Three corrections. First Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63799	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do is correct an incorrect quote, but there are far more incorrect allegations. I would indeed say, sir and colleague Beus, that everything you have said here has been said with one dictionary that is so difficult and you have sent it to the person who has been doing this audit report for years and it is really not fair that in the end you said that the audit and Mrs Šima Krasic is not doing her job well, and here she has earned a pension and where this Parliament has been confirming her report all year and you are speaking so rudely and rudely. On the other hand, when you talk about HDZ's cash register, Mr Barisic was not the head of accounting. He was a treasurer, and the head of accounting is a person in HDZ who has been doing his job for years and the party has had a neatly managed bookkeeping which has confirmed the revision of all these years. And don't deceive this public with your lies, and in your campaigns, as you say you've led in orderly, it would be researchable and this USKOK should really investigate your campaigns, your business and your people who run the party. And please don't act so rudely because it's not right, and you really can't get with it, but you should be covered in that little bald head.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63800	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kruno Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63801	Well, even though the CNS is the last party I think is supposed to be talking about other people's crime because it's full of those who have been convicted with power, they're wrongly convicted, they're probably spared for a variety of reasons. It's very unfortunate that here was the attack on Mrs. Šima Krasic that she sent various reports. So he has to send different reports. According to our Rules of Procedure, there is a brief report in the Assembly with an insight into the full report. Well, you could have looked at that. And the fact that not everyone had the opportunity as the president of the HNS was photographed before the election from all the Croatian highway posters that financed the highways, a nice smile. You know it's me, remember me. Yeah? So crime against crime is for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63802	And Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63803	Comrade Beus, you said, "Although the BMW party wasn't paid with money with a jury account, the client's money from the sale of the BMW sat on the client's account." That's not true. The money from the BMW sale isn't on the client's account. All revenue and expenditures with a party jury account are shown in this Report. I'm just telling you the facts and correcting your inaccuracies that really aren't true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63804	Thank you. Final review of the main state auditor, Šima Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And to all of those who supported this time review and I think I can be proud of this part of who we are. This is the 41st report in front of this House. Every report has been accepted so far. Over 300,000 pages, over 50,000 warrants, recommendations. We believe that according to methodology, mode of work, law, standards of ours in one level of European audits, and that is how we are accepted. I'd just say here that we've made an eye, not an eye, but a 13397 revision so far. It wasn't easy to do. And I'm just going to say here that no finding, no recommendation went in a way to write something that is not or is not that. It has never been done on purpose, and with each finding, every recommendation has an indication, that the subject of the audit is manifested, because auditors must be professional, must be fair, be an example and assistance to the audit entities, assistance in the application of the Constitution, law, procedure, regulation and all that should be applied. It's the point of reviewing and it's the task of reviewing. That's what we've been holding on to all the time. And now I have to say that I'm sorry to say that I am now at the end of my working life, etc. No, that's not true. I don't accept that. I don't even accept the examples of the truck you said. I showed the board what we did with the trucks. I've answered three times here in Parliament, now I'm going to say again -- we haven't done a truck audit, we've only been audited, only if you have the patience of a minute, the MORH for 2004, which had 4.5 billion expenses, which had 700 million kunas of public procurement. Of these 700 million kunas, 267 million were directly contracted and allowed. Of all that 35 million kuna was getting a truck. If today's auditors, I didn't do the review, and you found first, the second and third reports don't exist, I'd like to see the capacity of an auditor who would control 4.5 billion to remember everything, not to write himself some notes and that. It writes notes and eventually brings what it concludes, or what it finds at the end when it examines, and they were 3 months 3 auditors carried out that audit. So it was, and according to the data at the time, they wrote what they could write. The auditor couldn't get in... No, that's not true at all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's not true at all. ... No, there is an audit report now, the summary was sent to the Parliament by standards, and now it's written and now it's objecting to the EU for us to give too much material to the Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Parliament should be informed of the essential facts. We're trying to get all the results, all the recommendations and all the opinions to the Parliament. The truth is it's a little bit more material, that's a little bit more, but I think it's good to meet anyone who wants to do it. I have a duty to say this simply because it convinces the trucks. Trucks were made by auditors, they were neither traffic experts nor experts for others... according to the data they were. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, there was a contest, they came to the conclusion that there was no money, we made a decision. We were just looking at the decisions of the committees and the minister, etc. And then it went directly to the contract, again by order, etc. Therefore, the auditors made the report available and we had the same findings according to the Parliament and according to this, none of the first, second or third reports existed or existed. There is one report, Parliament, or parliaments of all countries in the world, reporting with summary, I repeat, but here we are not going to say that we are giving more, all found to do so. And as for HDZ operations, I would ask my colleague, how could the auditor know about any money if there were any transactions in any audit entity and also in HDZ. We controlled financial reports, accounts, cash registers, assets, everything that was legally implemented, and that's why we came to the conclusion. I assure you that none of the auditors or any applications, anything, that if we had any applications, maybe they'd have passed on sooner. He can't, and I believe it's clear to you, too, that an auditor can't confirm if any of these transactions are mentioned in the papers, see what's going to open, I don't know. I must admit we never had any other knowledge besides that. Like any other party. All those present here from the party, we audit political parties do a little bit differently. We are still reviewing complete documentation simply which is the wish of the parties to be audit reports in order, and then auditors help in a way that is really done in a way. Because our regulations are demanding, it is demanding to run the accounting of non-profit institutions, and they belong to a non-profit organisation. These non-profits have 13 and some thousands in Croatia, you know, so it's a problem. But we are trying together with the audit entities in this case and with the parties to comply with regulations and laws, etc. And me, I'm sorry I let the gentleman down. I'm not disappointed, I'm proud of everything that's been done. If it could be more likely. If it could have been better, but in the situation where we worked, but with the help of the Parliament and with the help of the public, we were able to do it. And I have to admit here and thank you very much for the support we had from the MPs in the Parliament, and that was always important. And our primary goal is to determine how it works, which is not in agreement and how it should work. And these data are done as a rule for representative bodies so that they can control in the name of the people how the executive authority works. Our data, data and other audits, I will tell you that I was in the Parliament of the United Kingdom, in the Parliament of Italy, in the same way presenting the audit reports are accepted, the committees further, i.e. asking the executive bodies as far as is possible and so on. In our case, one practice is slightly different, and most likely it will be one day, as with all the other audits here exist, some MPs have been with us in certain parliaments, so they have seen how and how it is done. So, it's not the audit service of a body that inspectors and others, it's a profession that shows how it's done, which is not in agreement, how it should be done to help the subject of the audit, to assist in the application of laws, decisions and everything else, etc., and then we're pleased to see now that out of 11 parties 8 has received unconditional opinion. And I have to admit that these are the best audit entities we've ever done because they want to do what the regulations say. I repeat once again that I am sorry, and as far as the parties are concerned, as far as any other funding is concerned, this revision or anyone can't determine on the basis of the data because they were gone and there were none. It means that we controlled what went through the account at HDZ, which is in the financial reports compared to the documentation as anywhere else if there was someone from another party who participated in it knows that we were working in the same way, while the IRS was also working at the same time. The tax administration controlled the donations of natural and legal persons, controlled whether travel orders were paid, the costs they worked in the same way. It means that we've agreed in some way to help and make the funding the best of it. Yeah, if you're not happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63806	Thank you, one correction. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63807	Speaking of the vehicle, you're saying that you've been auditing financial reports and financial records, that you couldn't determine this or that. I remind you that in the 2008 report, you found that the Croatian Democratic Community had acquired a vehicle, paid for customs duties, had no purchase value and that only in the 2009 report would the value of this new property be defined and how it was paid. It's nothing, we don't know if that car, where the money ended up, how valuable it was, and we don't know anything about it, and you wrote in 2008 that it was bought and customs paid. So it's obvious you didn't do what you said you'd do yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63808	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow with a debate on the 2009 report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the needs of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-23-0.u63809	We move to the 2009 Report on the financial audit of political parties and independent representatives. The applicant is the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the financial audit of political parties and independent representatives for 2009 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 96 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 3 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. I welcome you all. And as announced, we move to the agenda point - Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 for the needs of national minorities. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Free Taker. Here you go.
