ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47325	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. The final proposal of the Law on the Professional Education and Education Agency of adults addresses the following issues. The Agency for the Education of Adults and the Professional Education Agency shall be united into the new Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults, and shall, of course, cease to exist as independent legal persons. The new Agency shall take over all tasks, equipment, writing and other documentation, means of work, financial resources, rights and obligations and employees of those agencies. Status, activity, and the foundation of a new agency to carry out the activities of existing agencies with an emphasis on adult education, i.e. lifelong learning. The reasons for the establishment of the Agency for Professional Education and Education are as follows, it is necessary to agree on the activities of existing agencies that are very close, to achieve a greater rationalisation of business and to save business resources and to establish a single system of quality of education in the system of acquiring professional competences. The resources needed to work, i.e. for the implementation of this law, i.e. the work of the new agency, do not need to be further secured in the national budget for 2010. The 2010 budget provides for these agencies in the state budget of 116 million kuna and 677 thousand and 353 kuna. This year, minimum savings of 430,000 kuna were planned, as both existing agencies took on new commitments in implementing IPA's IPA fourth component international projects. According to the 2011 budget projection, a total of 103 million kuna and 269 thousand kuna and 856 kuna were planned, while 88 million and 361 thousand and 529 kuna were planned in 2012. As you can see, this amount falls by more than 20 million kuna, and it's actually about withdrawing funds from European funds. The differences between the first and second readings you had opportunities, respected MPs and MPs to see. Let me remind you just of the key. It is therefore prescribed that the rules establishing two existing agencies and certain provisions of the Law on Professional Education and the Law on adult education cease to apply to the effect of this law. The text in the first reading stated that regulations and certain provisions of the law would cease to apply by enrolling a new agency in the court register, namely Article 20 of the Law. And it was actually the guidance of the Legislative Committee. More precisely, the Agency’s tasks under its activities are regulated, and it has been added that the Agency performs financing, procurement, contracts, payments and supervision of the implementation of projects co-financed by the European Union’s funds. In this reading, we decided to prescribe the short name of the ASSO agency. The Agency's obligation to submit at least once a year a report to the Ministry of Education has been included. The concept of profit was replaced by the wording of surplus income over expenditure, in accordance with the terms of the Budget Law. The foundation of the agency's structure has been prescribed, departments are being set up in the agency, and the internal structure of the agency is getting closer to the agency's statutes. The basic conditions for the appointment of the Director of the Agency have been prescribed, which was not in the first reading, and we say that the Director of the Agency may be appointed as a person who has completed a graduate university study or an integrated pre-graduate, graduate university study or specialist professional studies, and who has at least 5 years of working experience in education and education activities, and the other conditions for the appointment of the Directors shall be governed by the statute of the Agency. The composition of the Agency's administrative council is prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia appoints and resolves four members on the proposal of the Minister in charge of Education. Then two members, one of whom is an employer, and one union representative comes to the proposal of the Economic and Social Council, while one member of the board of directors from the ranks of his employees appoints and resolves the agency. An expert council as a special body of the Agency has been left out. The Expert Council is indicated as unnecessary for reasons why, under the applicable rules of law in the field of vocational education and adult education, there are already professional bodies that have an impact on the system of vocational education and adult education, which is the Council for the Education of Adults appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then the Council for Professional Education appointed by the Minister responsible for Education, as well as the Sectoral Council for each education sector set up by the Minister in charge of Education. The total sectoral councils are 13. Therefore, the Council for Professional Education and Sectoral Councils are subject to the Law on Professional Education. Finally, it is prescribed that in a contract concluded by the interim director of the agency with the current directors, both agencies will establish their powers until their deployment on the posts set out in the general act of the Agency. This maintains the existing labour rights of former directors, which is in line with the provisions on the takeover of workers while respecting their rights under existing labour contracts, but also regulates their powers as soon as a new agency with new leaders is registered. All arguments in the equipment of the law are given precisely. Of all the solutions we have accepted, to your suggestions respected MPs and first-readers, to those solutions you have offered, which we have not accepted. Of course, with an explanation why we didn't do it. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47326	Thank you very much. The committees, the committee's reporters. Mr Miljenko Doric, on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47327	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On 4 February this year, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final proposal of the Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults. The opening statement at that session was tabled by the president. In relation to the first reading, the Proposer has adopted and incorporated in the final draft legislation a number of objections and proposals from MPs and representatives' clubs. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture was particularly interested in those he put out on his own. Thus, the applicant argues that he remained with the proposal to unify the originally proposed agencies after this committee, as well as the SDP representative club, proposed that a second option be considered. Namely, the possibility of joining the Agency in a way that the Professional Call Agency is united with the Education and Education Agency. In this case, the Agency for adult education would be maintained, which would develop into the Lifelong Learning Agency. Which would be a solution compatible with European movements. After considering this possibility, the applicant remains with the original proposal explaining, in addition, the need to avoid overlaps in the system and double-financing of the proposed agency in establishing an existing mobility agency and the EU programme whose activity has already been managed in the course of lifelong learning. Non-acceptances are also explained by the reasons for the design of programmes financed from European funds. The structural remarks and the proposal accepted that some of the issues of the organisation of the future agency were resolved at least indicatively at the level of the law, instead of fully leaving the statutes and other autonomous acts to the agency itself. In the light of the final proposal for a law, a specification of the claims on financial savings is given. The funds for the joint agency's work would be reduced from $116.6m in this year to €88.3 million in next year. All of this should be achieved by the terms of all the employees of the new agency so far. So it was noted in the debate that these two circumstances could hardly be brought into line. In the final proposal, the Proposer removed several no-technical remarks which were made on the occasion of the first reading by the Legislative Committee and other authorised applicants. The remaining nomotechnical remarks are expressed in the form of appropriate amendments to the committees. After the debate was held, the committee decided, by a majority, to vote 6 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the Agency for Professional Education of Adults. We have also proposed three amendments on that committee. The promoter then confirmed that he would accept the amendments. We haven't heard from the secretary of state in the opening... You're going to the final? [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Okay. Is there any need here to repeat those amendments? No, I don't. Okay, but we're expecting Mr. Secretary of State to refer to these three amendments in final terms because we think they're important. Here, I'd like to finish this brief presentation in front of our board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47328	Thank you. Would the representatives of the other committees like to? Reporters from other committees, no? Okay. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47329	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. After the first reading, the HDZ Club also reviewed the draft Act on the Professional Education and Education of Adults, and I must say at the beginning that we will accept it with those amendments that we have accepted from the Committee on Science, Education and Culture. So certainly this law is in the system of reforming education, mostly professional, which has been going on for several years and we can say at the very beginning that it does not go at an accelerated pace, but are visible changes precisely in vocational education. In order to develop the education system, a whole series of activities and laws have been adopted that allow the introduction of newspapers. Mostly in the field of lifelong learning and vocational education of adults. Several strategic documents have been brought in, so I, for the sake of the importance of this education, and I will repeat these reforms to see what the change and merger of these agencies is about. A plan has been adopted for the development of education and education systems from 2005 to here at the end of this year. Also scientific and technological policy, which is the same from 2006 to 2009 Strategic objectives in the development of vocational education, and we must say that more than 70% of high school students and students are just covered by vocational education, resulting from documents which primarily aim at improving the framework conditions of vocational education, development and promoting the quality of this education. First of all, schools, institutions dealing with vocational education. I'd say adult education. Because in adult education, we still have the most education for individual professions. First of all, progress is visible in the education of teachers and professional teachers, both from schools and from companies as well as improvement is aimed at managing competences of management staff in those involved in school education and in the company itself. One of the important objectives is to prepare for the interest and professional promotion of young people, which is why the Government established the Council for adult education and later the Council for Professional Education by its regulation in 2004. In addition to the adoption of the Professional Education Act in January 2005 The government has also established an Professional Education Agency that has accepted the task of developing vocational education and education. The main task of the Agency was to include all social and other partners in the process of developing vocational education, and I must say that they are all involved by the Croatian Association of Employers, Trade Unions, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Employment Institute. First of all, this Agency was tasked with the education of teachers, the definition of the national qualification framework, the development of curricula, which enables the achievement of the necessary student competences in the needs of the labour market and high school university institutions, and national and regional development. What did the Agency do? So, first of all, at the very beginning of its work from the Report, it can be seen about the Agency's work that it carried out an analysis of the labour market, which resulted in a reduction in the number of professional professions, established sectoral councils for the new professional sectors, which developed a proposal for a programme of professional professions. In 2006, even within the CARDS programme, the Agency agreed with the European Union the use of grants, which was well received especially in secondary vocational schools for the equipment of new technological development centres, I would say the centres that have developed according to certain professions, according to certain sectors were the beginnings of new technological developments, one such centre, one such school was founded at the Technical School in Sisak, I can tell from experience that my colleagues are doing very well, and that this is a good one time how to develop in one region, a newspaper in vocational education. It also started working with partners to develop a programme aimed at gaining professional competences according to I already examined labour market requirements and self- learning skills and lifelong learning. Lifelong learning involves acquiring knowledge and competence towards living and professional needs are equally important all the forms that are new in our education, all forms of education from formal, informal, informative which so far in us, especially this informal and informative so far has not come to life. It is the Law on vocational education and the Law on adult education that highlights these three forms of education. The tasks and objectives of the other Agency that was established for adult education are almost identical tasks to what I was just talking about. Thus, harmonising the education system on the labour market, replacing permanent employment, permanent employment, increasing adult involvement in lifelong learning, promoting learning culture and normal living in the literacy of the 21st century. These two agencies have worked separately so far, and why I have listed the tasks of these two agencies, so that we can see how they have really been in some tasks, in most of the tasks of these two agencies, and the tasks have almost overlapped. Now, here's to the Ministry's proposal, and in order to streamline and better track this work, we have a proposal to bring these two agencies together into one agency. After the first reading and discussion which I can say was extremely good both at the home Board of Education and at the plenary session, at the proposal of fellow MPs and club representatives, the applicant accepted some remarks and improved the provisions of this Act. This improved the interpretation of the Agency’s objective in Article 4 and added to the activity under which the Agency performs its tasks of financing the procurement of contracts, payments and supervision of projects co-financed by the European Union, but in this CARDS programme we have seen that one of the Agency’s professional education has done so well and that this activity should indeed be entrusted to this future new agency. By accepting the comments on the organisation of the Agency and the appointment of the Director, it was reached in this proposal and I think it is good that they are defined by law by the Director of the Agency which is defined by this Act and I think it is good that they are defined by law. We also need to know that in the first reading of this Act there was not a specific composition of the Agency’s governing council and after the debate was seen and it was important for the area covered by this new Agency and these so far that in the development of vocational education and adult education all the stakeholders of the trade union, employers, Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Employment Office were important, so the promoter accepted the proposal after the debate and set out exactly in this Act, so in Article 10 that he established the composition of the Board of Directors which is good and was not left to the Statute of the Agency, so he found that the Government appointed and resolved the President and 5 of which one member is a representative of the trade union and another member of the employers on the proposal of the Economic Social Council. Of course, of these six members appointed by the government, three on a proposal from the minister, one is certainly an employee of the Agency's future. In the proposal after the first reading, the applicant left out Article 14 which found that the Agency also had an expert council. Since we already have two councils one council on vocational education and the other adult education council, it may be really good that on the expert issues of this Agency it gives its opinion on the proposal for a work organisation, the development of the Agency and the other two current Councils, because they are closely and closely related to the work of the Agency. As I told the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Employers, trade unions, as well as professional education. There are other councils, and I think they'd be good to make their remarks on the agency's work, though. And in the end, for sure, as I said at the outset, vocational education and adult education is something that develops, not so fast, but that's a good step by step. Much has been done in the last 4.5 years in the reform of vocational education. It is also visible directly in professional schools on the ground. And we will certainly accept this proposal of the Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, while accepting those three amendments to the Education Committee submitted by the Committee to the proposer. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47330	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47331	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Director of the Agency, other colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club did not support this draft law in its first reading with the concept of the bill. And as despite the numerous objections made to this concept, in this second reading or final draft of the law, we from the SDP club will not support even the final draft of the law. But before I go to the very details of this proposal, one principled remark. We are respected colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament so far, we have never actually had the opportunity to systematically discuss the concept of systems and competences of support systems to the system itself. What is the system of support to the education system itself? This is a system made up of agencies and other institutions established by the State with a fundamental objective of carrying out professional and advisory tasks. Various agencies, if their competences and powers are well placed along with their professional autonomy and consequently professional authority, are also extremely valid in education institutions primarily in schools, useful institutions. Of course, in that case, it can also profit from education policy. In recent years, however, almost modernized us have joined the establishment of various agencies, without ever discussing and clarifying the real need for an agency. So the existing agencies were set up segmentarily and, if necessary, some were established by government regulations, some were established by the Special Laws Assembly, some came as a consequence of specific laws, the type of Professional Education Agency, and we never really considered those large images of the entire system of real needs of certain parts of the system and ultimately the strategic objectives of development of education. A colleague, Roksandic, said on behalf of the HDZ club, had recently counted the activities of the Agency for the Education of Adults and Professional Education Agency and claimed that they overlap in one part of the jobs. If they looked at the activities of the Professional Education Agency and the Education and Education Agency, they would also argue that they overlap in a number of jobs. If we look at the activities of the Centre for Mobility of the European Union Programme, with the current Professional Education Agency in this part of the European Funds, we would see that they are overlapping again in some activities. Therefore, we are now not solving the systemic overlapping problem. For us in the SDP, it is unquestionable that some professional jobs really need to be deprived of policies and that they should be carried out in specialised agencies, and that the ministry should remain in place for anyone to make political decisions of management and supervision. But when we analyzed what jobs are and what levels they do at which agencies, and just before I said something about it, we saw that other than overlapping certain jobs, there are jobs that no one does, and in fact some agencies can't meet the demands of neither the time nor the system itself. Therefore, all projects that are driven by a more current situation and a particular perspective, and this law is such an example, will not get our support because we estimate that they have bad effects in the long term on the system itself, bring confusion and damage that will then be more difficult and more expensive to repair. What exactly is this about? The part relating to the vocational education that we discussed most in the first reading does not concern us particularly, although these changes are happening more slowly than was planned and is necessary. And here we are particularly concerned about the adoption of this law to the adult education system, that is, lifelong learning. I think colleagues and colleagues that we need no one today or that we should not convince each other that in the 21st century, lifelong learning is and will be the most important, most economical and most effective part of education and perhaps, in addition to some of the education that is developing in Europe today, the most dynamic and fastest. With us, the system is highly underdeveloped. There is neither a culture of constant learning, training and adapting to the demands of new technological and scientific knowledge. And no irrelevant figure, a little shocking. Today, colleagues and colleagues in the Republic of Croatia 20% of our adult citizens have not even completed primary school. And another important fact about lifelong learning and the time we live in. In the 21st century, in times of general uncertainty but also insecurity of the workplace, insecurity of work, what we can provide with smart policy is the safety of employability. It is precisely this maximum security of employability that is ensured through the continuous provision of various flexible training programmes, prequalification, requalification, as well as the acquisition of new knowledge that may not have been current when e.g. some person was in the very formal system of education. I think that each of us can kind of remember what he learned about information and information technologies and what it had to do with what we used on our computers today. Absolutely nothing. And one dyspression. Our economy cannot wait for a decade or even more than for the education system to reform and adapt to new requirements. I repeat, therefore, the position of the SDP club which he expressed on the occasion of the debate in the first reading of the law. In lifelong learning, they've been made by politics since the beginning, by most of the wrong decision. First, lifelong learning is reduced to adult education, and now what is manifest and we are afraid and essentially reducing only to vocational education. If this were wrong, it could illustrate a simple example, or one question, I would ask the representatives of the government to give us an answer to that question. The question is who will do the accreditation of foreign language learning programs in foreign language schools? Nor is learning foreign languages education just education, only adults, many children involved, nor is it just vocational education. The answer to this question is particularly important because knowledge of foreign languages is now recognised as one of the fundamental competences. And without the knowledge of a foreign language followed by an adequate diploma or certificate, the matter is more complicated and the certificates are today issued by none of the primary or secondary schools in the regular system but are issued by foreign language schools and perhaps by some of the colleges conducting a certain exam. Without this certificate today, it is almost impossible to hire especially not on the European market. Even if you had all the knowledge, all the abilities, but you just don't have the paper. The second problem that we of the SDP see in this law, which we have also made as a conceptal remark in the first reading, which is not enough according to our assessment validly counter-argumented even now, remains the question why the merger of these two agencies. If it is really bad adult education to bring down to vocational education, which is, if indeed all secondary schools in regular work are communicating and consulting with two agencies, with the Professional Education Agency for part of the vocational course and with the Education and Education Agency in part of the general subject matter, that is, we do not see why it would be a problem for institutions dealing with adult education, which has significantly less than secondary vocational schools to communicate with also two agencies because it was one of the arguments to attach exactly these two agencies. The announced savings can also not be sufficient arguments because these savings are minimal. Even if we take into account the plans for next year, we have heard from the proposings both agencies are being detained and there is basically no more rationalisation. So we repeat, if anything needs to be combined, then in our opinion it is necessary to connect the Education and Education Agency with the Professional Education Agency because it simply suggests the dominant logic of the education system itself and the Agency for Adult Education should be converted into a lifelong learning agency. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on this occasion from the SDP, I would like to warn of another poor phenomenon in education that we fear is not only about education but also about the government's policy in general. The Croatian Parliament in February 2007, so three years ago, passed the Law on adult education and which year earlier, the government adopted an adult education strategy. Both the law and the strategy have written and planned the establishment of a specialised agency, and then it was established by the government's regulation. Now we're de facto terminating this agency because we don't even belong it to an existing agency, but we're almost drowning it at the Professional Education Agency, and we're suspending a good part of the government's strategy. So, what was very eloquently advocated or what you advocated two or three years ago is now becoming a distraction and these strategic definitions are giving up. That fact that you don't really know what you want or what you won't go in any direction, or why we're doing what we're doing has thrown education on its knees in recent years. And now almost the same ministry team continues to insist on already tried the bad methods of improvement or better put stagnation or backwardness in the education system itself. And for us in the SDP, it's just amazing and we're wondering how many times does this team have to repeat the class until they realize that some things have to be done in a professionally justified way and that it's not all politics. And in conclusion, if there's one thing in a state in a crisis that doesn't need to be sparring and it doesn't have to be saved, it's a lifelong learning program. Every kuna invested in lifelong learning is returned to both the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Investment in education is thus seen and a kind of life insurance of the nation, since it is subsequently returned, or through the completion of the human educational process, to gain greater employment prospects and, when employed with a higher level of knowledge and competence, it is likely that higher income will also be achieved. make more money for yourself, for your family and for society as a whole. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected promoters as you continue to insist on the model of additional reduction in adult education, as we do not see any development project from this extremely important field of lifelong learning and because we estimate that this law will negatively affect the already existing system of adult SDP education will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47332	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47333	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and fellow MPs. This law establishes the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education and regulates the status, activity and organisation of the Agency as a public institution. The reason for the establishment of this agency is that two independent agencies operate in the Republic of Croatia, whose activity is aimed at monitoring, improving, developing and evaluating education in the area of secondary vocational education and adult education. And according to their activities and their fundamental meaning, the two agencies are very close, which is why it is necessary to bring their implementation into line on a continuous basis. And which was difficult by separate budget planning and rights to set priorities in daily work on their own. Therefore, the Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults unites the Agency for Professional Education and the Agency for the Education of Adults into one agency that assumes all jobs, equipment, food and other documentation and means of work, financial resources and rights and obligations and employees of two agencies and they cease to exist as such. The applicant also accepted a series of comments made in the first reading. It is good that the law directly regulates basic issues rather than the statutes, which was an observation by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, as well as by some of our clubs of MPs. The proposal to prescribe the conditions to be met by candidates for the director of the agency as well as the proposal to include in the management board the economics system in order to bring labour market needs and education into line is that it will contribute to the quality of this law itself. However, I feel that the Director of the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults is not obliged to satisfy the same, so it is better to meet the director of secondary schools in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. It is precisely because the Agency has a direct impact on secondary education and is obliged to carry out professional pedagogical and other professional supervision of the work of the institutions, organise and carry out state competitions of pupils and student studies and carry out a number of other activities prescribed in Article 4 of the Law. It is a visible need for the person who represents and is responsible for the work of the agency to know very well the secondary system in the Republic of Croatia and is able to identify problems and quality projects from experience, but also to find appropriate solutions to the challenges with which the Director of the Professional Education and Education Agency will meet in the exercise of its duties. Taking into account the fact that the applicant has accepted most of the remarks made in the first fact, as well as the fact that it is not a whole new agency in the literal sense of that word, but the new agency will unite the two existing ones and there should be no reason for a significant delay in the work of the Agency, i.e. the quality of the performance of its legal obligations. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the HSS will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47334	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47335	Thank you very much, Your Honor. State Secretary, fellow MPs. Well, the proposed law brings together two agencies, as we have heard before, the Agency for Adult Education and the Professional Education Agency in the new Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults. In addition to a positive shift, i.e. saving the financial resources that the state budget will now be paid to one place, means to one agency rather than the two addresses so far, the other aspect, i.e. the choice of the management structure and the new agency, which will depend on the results of the Agency's work on improving vocational education in the Republic of Croatia. On the issues of vocational education and education, I think that, for years now, crows have known the problems, but unfortunately there has been little progress in practice in this area, and unfortunately not many of these problems are being addressed. By harmonising the system of vocational education with the needs of the labour market is obviously one of the major problems and obviously that there, I don't know who's dealing with it, I'd rather be told by nobody. No one follows, no one investigates, no one detects the need for individual deficits. Some employers say they lack skilled labour and demand the same imports to Croatia. That's why we have a situation today that a part of the workers is imported controlledly with work permits, while the other part of the workers are gray areas for which we all know silently. It is no secret that in Croatia the deficit professions are builders, cooks, waiters, postmen, pastries, roofers, carpenters, watchers, now I could still list dozens of these professions and, unfortunately, that year after year, the number of craftsmen is actually the best indicator of the number of craftsmen in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute records. So, for example. In 2005, when the Professional Education Agency was founded, there were 83 thousand 749 craftsmen, and in 2009, the number dropped to 75,000 51 active craftsmen last year. In the area of agriculture, there is an even worse situation so that in 2005, there were 46 thousand 726 farmers, and last year there were 33 thousand 806 farmers. As you can see, from year to year these occupations are slowly extinct. And what we're doing or what the agencies so far have done to stop this negative trend in some way and simply see how these deficiting occupations get back into practice normally. Croatia certainly has no right because of future generations to deplete certain professions in the profession or crafts, and with our unemployment there is no reason to import foreign labour, and all because I believe that some responsible individuals have not done enough, they have not done enough to motivate and educate certain professions for labour market needs. These criticisms I refer to are well-intentioned, so I'd like them to understand that anyway. The problem is not enough investment in the development of human resources, so it would certainly be just as desirable, and I also spoke to the board and told the craftsmen who were represented there, that it would be desirable for individual companies, that certain companies would become more involved through scholarships, through scholarships, and thus further motivate people who are educated in these professions professionally, not that they become in fact from day to day deficits. Therefore, the Croatian Chamber of crafts must also become more involved, be louder and have to publicly and clearly criticise all those who have failed in this segment of the education system. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports must do more for me to train teachers for professional subjects, because I believe that this is one of the most important problems of vocational education. The education of professional teachers is inadequate, at least according to the knowledge that has come to me, which is certainly due to the consequences and the lack of competence to work in teaching programs. The Croatian Employment Service should also work more on retraining, retraining or the need for additional education of the unemployed for those professional professions that would be employed today on the labour market. The lack of funds for this area cannot be due to an excuse, as the funds were used by the CARDS project, various international projects, from the new IPA pre-accession programme, etc., from the budget clearly. All you need to see is how well and well used these funds are. So the new agency certainly expects a big job, if it will work in the spirit of its name, and in particular it has to be fun what the predecessors said, in the area of lifelong learning as a cornerstone of the development of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47336	Thank you. We have one replica, Susana Bilic Wardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47337	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague Kunst well noted in his discussion that there is a problem in Croatia with certain deficits and that we have a lack of such market workers, that the needs of the economy for these workers are high. But in the second part where he said they were guilty of education in the agency, I would not agree but would remind my colleague Kunst that even so far at local levels, because let us not forget that education is decentralised and that the founders, therefore at the levels of the county are both the Chamber of Commerce and crafts involved in the production of the registration quotas and the determination of the occupations needed. When there's something else, too, colleague Kunst. When you talk about incentives, what you need to give to the businesspeople themselves in cooperation with education, so that they give scholarships I will present positive examples in the town of Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County, where certain companies from the Holding Group Đuro Đaković give scholarships, so in direct contact with secondary vocational schools specifically the Industrial-Ober School, open interest, give scholarships. And clearly, such students have jobs as soon as they finish education. And I think this new agency, the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, will also work on these incentives both for the economy and for the students to enroll in deficits because they allow them to get a job right away from school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47338	Thank you. Mr. Kunst's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47339	Thank you very much. Here's me and my colleague thanking her for noticing that I noticed. But I have to say that in my opinion, the agency is, in any case, I'm experiencing that it must be the body that will be spotted, which will coordinate precisely between local self-government units, the education system and the need of the labour market. It can't be some body separated from life. And that is why it is necessary to see that the labour market needs are in some way coordinated with the education system. And that's basically my job. And normally who does that? They work people at the agency, no one works outside that agency. That's why it's very important to have quality people at the head of these agencies to coordinate, to see. Because surely those professional professions are where? Well, in local self-government units, you can best see where there's something missing, what's missing in this county or in this local self-government unit, that's dying out in one or the other. Surely this job is very important and important for the agency. That's why I'm saying these criticisms that I've referred to were in any case well-intentioned and I want to encourage them to make the agency more active in that part of co-ordination between the education system, the need for the labour market. And normally, I didn't think we'd forget local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47340	Thank you. There is another replica of Mrs. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47341	Comrade Kunst, in your presentation you gave mostly good grades and good thesis with which I personally agree. I can see there's no special understanding for them in your HDZ. But I don't understand how you came from these premises to the conclusion that the law is good, that it will do better. Because if we've had two agencies so far that have been focused solely on dealing with only one thing, and they haven't been able to accomplish what you're talking about. I don't see how an agency that will be more dispersed to say so in my own interest will now be better and more successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47342	Thank you. Mr. Kunst, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47343	Thank you very much. It doesn't exactly suit me that the opposition is beginning to praise me. But I have to say in that, and the thing is that now a new administrative council will be elected under this law, so new people. And that's exactly what I'm trying to appeal to make sure that they're quality people who will be in the board of agencies who will later set up people who will run that agency, etc. that we don't repeat what we've been told so far, that the problems are basically going on year after year. As I have said, sparrows on the branches are already grizzling, crouching pardons or crows groping about these problems, but nothing important is solved in this area of vocational education, especially in the part where our craftsmen and craftsmanship are extinct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47344	Okay. Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mrs. Mirela Holly's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47345	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning, I would like to say that I will not support the adoption of this proposal for a law on the Professional Education and Education Agency for several reasons. Some reasons have already been mentioned by counterpart Marija Lugaric, and they refer to the apparent fundamental conceptal disagreement between the government and the SDP. In the SDP, we believe that adult education should be structured as lifelong learning, while the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants adult education and lifelong learning of vocational education with this final proposal of the law. Whether it should be stressed that this is shortsighted and how different it is from the declared views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the importance of education, especially lifelong education as raising the competences of the Croatian population, and thus the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. I must therefore conclude that despite the often repeated paroles on Croatia as a country of knowledge which has been coming out of the mouth of officials and officials of the ministry and of the government, this government does not consider the lifelong education of Croatian citizens and citizens, and thus education to be a generally important measure for raising the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, but also for raising the quality of life and improving democratic standards in Croatian society. Although the only reason for the merger of these two agencies, the Agency for Professional Education and the Agency for adult education is solely financial, i.e. saving and cutting costs can be speculated whether it is not responding to the proposings, the competent ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a politically short and long term sense of obstruction of lifelong education and education of the Croatian population in general. Why? Because a relevant survey of political preferences shows that the HDZ and its conservative coalition partners are responsible for less education of the Croatian population, because it is precisely the kind of population that often chooses these options. We hope that this is not the case and that coalition partners do not deliberately obstruct the education projects of the population in order to ensure their political survival. The arguments that this law is adopted in order to achieve greater efficiency in work, allow for the establishment of a single quality of education system in the system of acquiring professional competences, and to ensure assumptions for greater business rationalisation simply do not hold water, because that the government really wanted to do so could have done so without any difficulty and without joining these two agencies. However, behind these listings of the advantages of the Agency's merger, there is no open-air talk of what is the real problem, the failure of these two agencies and the sad situation both in the vocational education that should be the generator of important economic processes for Croatia's development, and the sad, regrettable situation in adult education and lifelong learning. In other words, clean debacles both agencies. But it is probably no wonder when it comes to human policy in agencies. Therefore, I cannot ask no question in this place on what criteria the deputy and assistant directors of the Professional Education Agency, persons without any experience in this area, have been selected. What happened in the development of an advisory service in that agency that employs almost 50 people, but not a small number of them, less than half of them really do what the real job of the agency is. The question also arises whether anyone is taking care of the development of service and the competence of employees and what are the criteria for the success of progress. Unfortunately, so far we have too often experienced that the Government is proposing laws and measures that are under-thinking, adopted and written ad hoc without any preparation, research and analysis of the expected consequences of such measures. So I ask you, have you done a study on the feasibility of merger agencies? As far as I know, you're not, so I'd like you to explain to me why you're assessing the benefits of implementing this law? It would be very bad if the only result of this law was the further spread of nepotism, the choice and the entanglement of new unprofessional personnel and the creation of the atmosphere of fear and mobbing among employees and employees. This bill does not, unfortunately, provide professional support to the definition of proposals for the acquisition of basic competences in vocational education, and does not bring any positive shifts in the acquisition of basic competences without which there is simply no lifelong learning. The burning problem with the state's graduation remains open, i.e. the state's graduation exam of students and students of four-year vocational schools. It should be pointed out that the Agency's tasks are professional and advisory, not administrative affairs, and that the Council for Professional Education is a sectoral council appointed by the Minister, and the Council for Adult Education is the professional and advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In each council, the Agency is represented as a professional and competent body, not administrative. Finally, I want to say that I am sure that the implementation of this law will not bring the expected results in terms of rationalising the state administration, and even less in terms of encouraging lifelong learning. On the contrary, I fear that this law will bring even greater problems, chaos and disorder both in the area of vocational education that is inadmissiblely marginalised in Croatia and in the area of adult education. That's why I can't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47346	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Anton Mance's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47347	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with colleagues, respected colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. I will support the final proposal of the Law on the Professional Education and Education Agency for several reasons. We now have two agencies whose activity is aimed at monitoring and improving, developing and evaluating education in the field of secondary vocational education and adult education. The Agency for Adult Education was established by a regulation establishing the Agency for Adult Education in 2006, and the Professional Education Agency was established in 2005. The work of the two agencies sought to create all assumptions about the work of material, spatial, humane conditions. The activities of the agencies are very close, which is why it is necessary to continuously agree on their implementation, which has made it difficult to plan separately, the rights to set priorities on their own in daily work. This legislative proposal establishes a new agency with the aim of uniting activities. The new agency will bear the name of the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education and will carry out activities with an emphasis on lifelong learning aimed at improving knowledge, skills, competence for personal, social and professional needs. The new agency is taking over all the jobs as a legal follower. The merger would result in greater efficiency in work, and would allow for the establishment of a simple system of quality education in the system of acquiring professional competences, and would ensure assumptions for greater business rationalisation and reduce the number of regulations. I also see the improvement of the system through better material editing of vocational schools, i.e. School workshops in smaller places, better equipment schools and production organisations should be a goal. We seek to enter the European Union where our education system is better organised in terms of working conditions where we seek to get a better qualified student with better quality practice. Therefore, those who have had the opportunity to see some European schools, especially professional schools, have seen that their school workshops have a lot of machines to produce, to work part of production, to work for large-known companies and of course these students feel much more valuable. So, as an employee of a former professor, with some experience, I see this promotion, and I think that the agency in that part of the job could certainly do so and bring some quality, because the process of adult education, vocational schools, when we look 20 years back and now expect as much as Col. Lugaric expects us to make such a big leap I don't think it's possible in such a short time, but I expect that, through the work and merger of these two agencies, it will certainly change that. 29 activities are proposed in the Agency's activities, but I would point out only some that are important for vocational education, so I would point out five. So the proposal to the ministry of the centre's teaching technology network, according to counterpart Roksandic. The Agency shall provide professional support for the definition of the proposal of the network of institutions, which is very important that the criteria for enrolment become not the number of students in one local community, but the schools, equipment and staff that exist in such a school. So to be the basis, it means waist, to be thorough. It then encourages cooperation in the implementation of programmes and projects related to the development of adult education and vocational education systems. He's running state competitions, student reviews. It's very important because that's how students themselves prove themselves, they come true, so you can see how the school works, you can also see the promotion of the profession. And fifthly, it implements programmes, as counterpart Kunst has already said, funding projects from the European Union funds. Personally, I believe that connecting these agencies is also necessary because adult education is being conducted today mainly for the labour market and is mainly for vocational schools, and almost minor for high school or others. Connecting these agencies should provide more precise data to plan enrolment in order to reduce the differences between the professional needs of the economy and current entries, as my predecessors have already discussed in detail. The work of the united agencies must be further imposed by vocational education and its... for the development of the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I agree with my colleagues, colleague Lugaric, says the crisis is, should be invested. This, of course, is because vocational schools still need to be forced to become primary schools, because the European Union has not evolved without these schools. It is very much invested in these schools, it is evident by their material conditions of work. When investors come to us then, among other information about business areas, they also ask for information about vocational schools. I have to tell you that they ask what school you have, that they come to schools to see what our workshops are like, which can be learned there because theoretically we're giving knowledge, but we're lagging behind in practice. And the management agency, which is here, is also considered controversial, I think will choose competent and quality people who have experience, knowledge, who will combine this lifelong education and learning with our current needs and alignment of the labour markets and enrolment in schools. So that there are no big differences between what we have written, what we have finished, and then after that we are looking essentially through adult education requalification to gain the first interest we will have in employment. Here, that's why I expect and support the merger of these agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47348	Thank you. We have one replica, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47349	Dear colleague, you have made great expectations of the new agency and have supported this by reading the activities planned for this new agency. If you had read the regulation so far on the establishment of the Professional Education Agency, which was adopted in 2005 and the Regulation establishing the Agency for the Education of Adults, you would have seen that the list of activities of this new agency is literally a copy-paste stuck to the activities of both agencies. So if things didn't work out the way they were supposed to, and you said it yourself, we don't see how with the same people because all the same employees, with the same activities and with the same policies, because we didn't bring any new strategies, we can expect different results. And secondly, I agree with you when you said that you should invest more in education, especially in the section of vocational education. However, I would like to remind you that the state budget is passed by the Croatian Parliament and that in the state budget, we both declare ourselves as representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I don't remember when you discussed the state budget talking about it, that you wrote about it some amendment or that you voted against the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47350	Thank you. Mr. Anton Mance, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47351	Well, here you go, pals, you're now agreeing to the part about whether there's going to be a promotion or not. You didn't convince me either why you should link these other education agencies to this. I'm telling you this on the basis of experience and need. You can't expect that within five years, or I don't know since the law was passed, so I don't know how many people remember what adult education was like 15, 20 years ago? So we gave you people assurances about training for occupation, for example. Engineers, traffickers. Today we ask the question of how is our railroad? That was up to a short time ago. The beliefs in certain schools of interest that we later worked on, and I worked on it, translated to technicians that these people can continue to study today, say, engineering or something, and before that was the case. And now you expect it to change in such a short time. I can't get into it, like my colleague Holly said, who's gonna work there. I have the best intention and faith to run that agency of people from, maybe there's not only this craftsmanship, but that it will lead competent people outside who will make observations and suggestions, and that at the head of that agency and in the structure of that agency there will be people who are professional, quality, capable, who have both experience and theoretical knowledge and all competences to set the agency right. And the changes you're talking about, as far as the budget is concerned, so the increase in these funds went as far as we can, I say in this crisis, I said I need to invest even more in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47352	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47353	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates. Allow a few thoughts on this final proposal of the Law on the Professional Education and Education Agency of adults. It seems to me that the first reading and discussions that were conducted really improved this law made it operational and possible and therefore it seems to me that those who oppose having very thin arguments about it. Because what's it really about? The word is very simple. This is about the integration of two agencies into one, and it's about the strongholds. And the largest foothold for the work of these agencies and what we have come to know in Croatian society, which is adult education, which is vocational education, is the fact that we have the Law on Professional Education and the Law on adult education, i.e. lifelong education. This seems devastating to me, and this integration has been done in a way that the debate in the first reading has improved and the issue of the board of directors and the share of stakeholders on this issue, but also the amendments to the committees that I think we agree with, because I am also a member of the board, when we have discussed and when several amendments have improved the text. That's all the reasons I'm going to vote personally for this final bill. And it seems to me, as much as we dispute, that we have opened up a space of opportunity for this agency to work for the benefit of professional education and adult education. Because if we read only in art. 4. which determines the Agency's activity, the first part. So he says, "The Agency's activity is to plan, develop, organise, implement, monitor and improve the system of vocational education and adult education." So that is the real meaning of this law that the proposer has proposed so that we can work on these two important issues in a better, more effective, longer term. All those doubts and questions about whether this vocational education will lose, and whether adult education will also lose how much? I think there's a little speculation because we understand this problem so much right now, we're developing it, and this is a problem that will be current in the coming decades. And I will say one piece of information in this high House, that today, and Croatia is waiting for 28 seats in the EU, and then the EU will count about half a billion people, one job or 60% of jobs in the EU, to carry out this job should have at least a high school. It says we won't be able to give up these questions and they're our destiny. Not only Croatian societies but the European Union and the development of the world of work, the world of knowledge, the skills, the abilities that need to be had. Here I heard some speculations about the learned foreign language, etc. I don't think it's just about this agency. It's a general commitment today. The EU has told its directives, its citizens and its education systems and offered that learning a foreign language is one of the fundamental competences for all those half a billion Europeans, where tomorrow it will also be Croats. I therefore believe that we have created an organisational form to develop all these possibilities. And of course it's about money, and with knowledge and understanding... the development of our education system and I'd say educational verticals. From kindergarten to university or to lifelong learning, this fits. Whether or not in five or ten years the Agency will be an independent agency is a matter of a general development of the system but I mean what is fundamental, what this Agency can do, can do to the benefit of professional education and adult education. I also want to say that the text has been improved in relation to the first reading and that we have been working on design both as a Committee and as representatives and we have received various letters that we have formed. I commend that, the amendment committees also, and I have nothing to add but to wish for good work to this agency. Here's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47354	Thank you. Just in 10 and 40 minutes' time for a ten-minute application, we've got replicas. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47355	I will only look back on the part where you mentioned or mentioned the thin arguments. There are basically four education agencies in Croatia. The first is the Agency for Education and Education of the former school office as you know it. The second is the Agency for Professional Education, the third is the Agency for Adult Education, the fourth is the Agency for Mobility and the European Union Programme, all four are education and you still have the Agency for External Evaluation, it is not also an expert body. But when you do a comparative analysis between the legal or provision established by the regulation on the establishment of agencies, then you will find by far the largest number of consents and similarities between the Education and Education Agency and the Professional Education Agency and, therefore, it would be most logical for those two agencies to merge, and not these two, and why these two are still not aware of what the negative consequences are, however, we are constantly talking about, and I see the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47356	Answer Mr. Nevio Štić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47357	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. That experience we've already had, the Agency for Professional Education has kind of come out of that Agency I personally don't think we should go back to it, and I've said that maybe by five, or I don't know how many years this system might continue to develop when we bring it to that level because professional education in that element is creating life and myself and constantly increasing competences and what I think my colleague Mance is talking about requalifications about prequalifications because our interests don't last so long because life is changing very quickly. We know that the potential of world knowledge has doubled in five years, which means that we in Croatia have to react to it. It seems to me that with all the understanding of your proposal that this could possibly be in the perspective of five, ten years will separate it according to that, these are the reasons I would say modest to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47358	Thank you. Replica also Mrs. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47359	Dear colleague Šetić, in your discussion, you looked back on what I said at the Club about foreign language schools, and I'm glad you agreed with me that it was really basic competence. I mentioned this example to show in fact the whole senselessness of our system, and then you may answer the question of who is doing the accreditation of the School of Foreign Language program, and it is neither vocational education nor adult education, and that is the problem, and that is the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47360	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Shetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47361	Yes, this is about accreditation technically, at this time I couldn't exactly say the procedure, but we have a European... in this respect and there is a directive very clear and harmonisation of legislation that we want to adopt in relation to the European Union, I think it solves that question, because today all these schools, if you take it, don't want to be listed for propagation, they have very well-verified programmes, and in particular how in the Republic of Croatia these certificates are obtained, which are levels, that's one thing, can be done by the Education and Education Agency. So, just to finish up on your line, I think that's one question that comes into the general problem of education, that's one key question that binds us right to the European programmes and to the European Union where we want to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47362	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47363	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I see the secretary of state has come out, then I welcome his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will support the Final Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults, submitted by the Government to the Croatian Assembly for discussion and adoption, which was qualitatively completed between the first and second readings by adopting proposals as a parent Committee for Science, Education and Culture, by the Committee on Legislatives and by the requirements of the Representatives' Clubs, as well as by the observations held by MPs and MPs in the debate in the first reading of the Law. We are facing a short law that establishes and regulates the unification of activities in the field of vocational education and adult education through five chapters and 21st articles, which provides for the establishment of a new Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults. There will be clearly two agencies that have been discussed today, cease to exist as independent legal persons and the new agency will take over as the legal successor of all the work, financial resources and rights and obligations of workers of those agencies. By unifying the two agencies, the activity will be partially complemented and overlapping will achieve greater efficiency in the work, enables the establishment of a single system of quality education in the acquisition of professional competences and ensure assumptions for this recession time are insignificantly more rationalised business. I do not agree with the comments of the representatives who held in the debates that it is incompatible and that the proposal should have gone to the pooling of the Education and Education Agency with the Professional Education Agency in order for the Agency for Adult Education to gain meaning and focus on the lifelong learning of adults known and encouraged by the European Union. I do not agree with the reason that the reality in Croatia at this time does not correspond to the situation in the countries of developed Europe, because while we are in Croatia from 2003 on a project for Croatian literacy or demarcation of older than 15 years who have not completed their primary school, you will agree that adult education is still largely in the direction of vocational education, which does not mean that I do not advocate that as part of the new Agency in that part of adult education that there is no going towards creating conditions and the assumption that highly educated people are allowed to acquire new special knowledge, skills and competences that are not yet developed in our society. I also want to dedicate a few words to the improvements in the final bill. We welcome a larger number of colleagues, and the colleague put it forward, establishing the composition of the Governing Council in this law, which is prescribed to be made by the president and six members. The President and 5 members have the Government of the Republic of Croatia 4 of them on the proposal of the Minister of Education, and 2 on the proposal of the Economic and Social Council, one of which is a representative of the union and one of the employers. The seventh member shall be appointed by the Agency from the Staff Regulations. This respects the requirements for inclusion in the administrative council and for the economy in order to bring labour and education market needs into line, and for which I personally welcome the ministry. But just as I have said before, I believe that these days the responsibility of those who usually complain about enrolment policy in vocational education and the lack of professional workers is needed for the economy. So I would remind myself again that until now they have played a significant role and responsibility in creating entry policy at local, or regional level, through the activities of economic and craft chambers that are founders of secondary vocational schools, which are counties. Each year, the ministry is offered an interest and registration quota. I am sorry that sometimes it is not a very clear developmental vision of the needs of the county economy, and I see here the role of the Professional Education and Education Agency to coordinate this throughout Croatia. So, once it is necessary to form a recording of the needs of the labour market and the consistency of the professional interests that exist at the moment in the Republic of Croatia and to see what changes are needed, because I agree that the economy requires faster changes than the education system can perform. But still, if it wasn't all so black, when we passed the Law on Professional Education, I pointed out positive examples of good cooperation of vocational schools in my Brod-Posavina County with local economic operators. So I talked about scholarships from high school students and contracts that companies make with students of certain vocational schools, and in the interests needed to develop and improve the economy. For all those who are reminded of the need for modern equipment and greater investment in the equipment of vocational schools, I would also remind myself of the examples of the equipment of vocational schools in the field of Brod-Posavina County through the cooperation of founders, so County, School and joint performances in front of access funds that allow the acquisition of modern equipment for the education of students of the Industrial-Ober School in Novi Gradiška, Slavonski Brod and Matija-Antun Reljković High School in Slavonski Brod. I know you're going to say that my next remark has no direct connection with the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, but I think it's worth the emphasis. I welcome the progress made in Article 6(3) and Article 10(1)(10), in which the applicant replaced the concept of profit in this law by means of an excess revenue over expenditure, which the applicant claims is in accordance with the Budget Act until the summer of 2008 and with other budgetary regulations. I have no doubts about the applicant or my memory that in the 1993 Law on Institutions is a fundamental law, this unfortunate notion of profit that does not correspond to non-profit institutions and I believe that it should be systematically replaced in all laws, therefore not only in the fundamental ones governing the activity of institutions which this agency certainly is. And I'm pretty sure education won't drown in this new agency and it won't go away. And I advocate that adult education for professional professions is used by existing spatial capacities and human and professional resources of educational institutions, so schools, because we know that this education is being allocated to a very large amount of resources that would be very useful for such a desired and stressed improvement of education conditions in vocational schools. And ultimately in the belief that the new agency will make a qualitative shift in the education system, I will support the Final Proposal of the Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47364	Thank you. We have one replica, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47365	Dear colleagues somewhere before the beginning of your discussion you referred to what I said that you disagreed with those who suggest joining the Professional Education Agency with the Education and Education Agency, I would actually like to correct, and for the correctness I raised this replicated tablet. What I have said is, if anything needs to be combined, you should consider joining the Agency for Professional Education and the Agency for Adult Education, because, of course, as I have said, this system of support to the education system itself must be invented and followed by adequate strategies and policies and objectives, not in the way we set them up. So we are not proposing this merger, but we are proposing that policy be defined first, that activities be well considered and that a competent decision be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47366	Answer by Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47367	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lugaric, in most cases, corrected my claim rather than replicated it to me. But I will still use this institute of replicas and say that I believe this is a competent decision that the proposer, so the Croatian Government and the Resort Ministry of Science and Education, makes. And I will repeat that I believe that the Agency for Professional Education and the Agency for Adult Education will help improve the education system. And by passing this law, by adopting this law, we will adopt it to the fact that the opposition in this House of Commons has remained at the stand of the first reading of the law that you will not support it. And I'm sure those of us who adopt, as well as those who act and enforce this law, will be an even greater incentive to prove that we are right by joining these two agencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47368	Thank you. It's Mrs. Romana Jerkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47369	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the Ministry. Well, at the very beginning, I'm going to say that I'm joining all those who feel that the proposal for this law is not a good solution in the long run. So by joining two agencies into one Professional Education Agency and the Adult Education Agency, we combine something that at first sight is related activities and by joining them we create preconditions for rationalization and savings. But is that really so? Personally, I don't agree with any assumptions, and I'll explain why. So, I'm not going to go into the details, I'm not going to call on the articles, I'm not going to make any amendments in the first reading debate, I think we've done a lot of work on this side, and I can see it hasn't gotten any results. So, I'll speak in principle. I believe that the proposal on the merger of these two agencies as we could hear it in the presentation on behalf of the SDP club is conceptually wrong and generally unacceptable because it does not solve essentially neither the problem of vocational education nor essentially solves the problems of lifelong learning which is part of adult education. Therefore, both vocational education and lifelong learning should continue to develop, they should improve their quality because they are burdened with a number of problems and are significantly distant from the standards set in Western European countries. I think that both, therefore, vocational education and lifelong learning are a burning problem in the Croatian education system and that they need urgent solutions, however not in this way. I think this is wrong. I think it will bring additional confusion and difficulties into the long-term development and vocational education and education of adults, and I am not speaking in a broader context of the development of human capital or human resources and the competitiveness of individuals. For this reason, I deeply believe that this is not about any rationalization, no savings, because there are colleagues and colleagues who are not savings, savings that cost us in the long run and ultimately all together as a society cost us dearly. If this is one of those, I deeply believe it is. I, of course, have no intention of teaching anyone here that every national economy and its long-term development depend on human capital and on human resources and that this quality actually depends on the quality of the education system, on investing in the education system and participating in education. Stopping the development of education as well as insufficient investment in the development of human capacities, capital or resources, which I think happens to us when they become a limiting factor for the long-term development of society, so what could eventually happen to us. And for that reason, I can't and I just don't see any savings. I can give you a few reasons or evidence that we're not doing well and that we have a bad strategy, that we have a bad concept. A few years ago, a report by the European Human Capital Index, which ranks the member states of the European Union, Eastern, Central Europe and candidate countries and according to the human capital index set by certain criteria, will not now be discussed, the best results have been achieved by Slovenia and Turkey while the worst results are Croatia and Poland. Therefore, the main problem in Croatia is that of inadequate investment in education, the acquisition of skills especially for employees over 45 years of age precisely in the field of lifelong learning. So we are from the aspect of human capital and education as the fundamental capital of modern society rated very badly. Doesn't that tell us anything? Doesn't that mean anything to us? It means something to me and it tells me that we're doing the wrong thing. So we can't do well and be judged very badly and be among the worst. That doesn't make sense, does it? Another example, another proof. According to the level of participation in adult education and learning, Croatia is at the very bottom of the European scale. I think never experts and analysts agree that we've never been to a lower level than we are at this point. Isn't it logical that I ask a question if that's the case, or if we're doing well, why is that? All 2.1% of the population aged between 25 and 64 are included in some kind of educational programme or lifelong learning and only three members of the European Union have lower participation rates than Croatia. I do not know what better than these figures, from these percentages it proves that the last twenty years have almost failed other forms of education than the formal and European objective defined by the Lisbon Strategy is inclusion in lifelong learning in all EU Member States 12.5% by 2010, so not until 2020. And now the question is, how are we supposed to do it? I've received dozens of e-mails over the past few days from experts, competent people who directly or indirectly deal with this problem. Well, I'd like to read to you Mr. Secretary of State just a few. So one email says: "All those comments, suggestions given on page 13 and 14 stand completely, but unfortunately with bad arguments are not accepted. I think by bringing these two agencies together, all the good things that have been done in the last few years in terms of adult education and not a lot of them are going to shut down. Too bad, in the world it's recognized, but with us, it's like adult education is in the way or it's like he wants chaos in that area so he can do a lot of things.". So that's not my personal opinion but I support it for a person who is in the profession and who is directly or indirectly connected to this problem. I can read another one to you: "I am in connection with the above-mentioned bill of opinion that the merger of the Agency for the Education of Adults and the Professional Education Agency will damage and slow down the development of the adult education system. In fact, vocational education is only one segment of adult education as a whole. It includes basic adult education and higher education. There are examples of foreign language learning programs that represent the upgrade of every general and professional education, which is something that my colleague Lugaric also spoke of. By joining these agencies, there is a danger of foreign languages drowning in professional programs. So I conclude, somehow I can't take away the impression that on the margins there's always a question of all the issues, which is education. And our bitter controversy about education is unfortunately motivated mainly by the failure of the system, and not by our need and our genuine desire for education in this society to be the priority of the first order. Unfortunately, public debates are still driven primarily by difficulties, poor moves, unquality hasty laws, protests. That's too bad. Too bad we're wasting precious time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47370	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47371	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. The law we are discussing in the second reading is that some things should not be done in 2010 when we have already opened and closed, opened above all, and closed a huge number of chapters in the debate on joining the European Union in which education is not a prerequisite if the Croatian legislation is modified with the European Union. However, entering the European Union, education and the chances of a more sophisticated market are those of which we need to discuss. When looked at, forgive me in one way, for the 29 measures in Article 4, forgive me, above all, is unconvincing. It is absolutely inconclusive to combine in this way two documents that represent a whole series of measures, the Agency's activities from the implementation, preparation and so on. I think it's unsustainable, actually. In this, one problem that puts the whole document into one inaccessibility is that of people who will work in it and who we will call tomorrow, and we create such a condition in which it is not even sustainable. What I would generally look at in this context is actually the question of how we plan for lifelong education. There were a lot of examples here from local self-government, there were examples from environments that just can't be said to have applied very high technological, developmental processes in what they do and in education for that kind of profession. And we're not going to go any further, we're going to sanction that middle development or the middle development rate that we have. What needs to be seen, and in what Mr. Kunst was saying, I agree that a number of twists are disappearing, but gentlemen dear, it's not the question of how to school, it's how this country is run. Is being run so that you organize on... I don't know which centres, various shopping malls that sell cheap goods, actually consumer goods and suggest that people should live like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look at all these big, fat, fat-ass garbage, what it looks like, what it's all thrown away. So what the craft has its place and has a place in maintaining some existing quality capacities there is absolutely one divergence in what the state in the commercial sense wants. Buy under any product, and what craftsmanship can do is neglected. So in this context we should not be fooled that we will have archaic calls. But I'm going back to lifelong education. I returned from a parliamentary visit to Bratislava where my colleagues spoke very intensely about how quickly, faced with the crisis they had used to counterise in their actions and in their education, they had to adapt to the challenges that the crisis had brought in terms of employment, in terms of education, in terms of job flexibility. Today is no longer possible, up to some limits people are developing, but it will not be possible to hold on to one call for 50 or 30 years or 27 years of work experience, but how this policy will develop. By the age of 67, a man will not be able to stay in a certain number of calls only on that call, he will have to get additional knowledge, he will have to get additional competences. And in the sense of the state, the state must return the profession to the profession to come up with this profession, but it must have a policy that will recognise it and thus direct the development of education. Of course that's the most expensive thing we invest in, we invest in human potential, and that potential is not only used on our market but we use it and as our own, I won't use too many modern brand names, but something that's good, that's knowledge. Knowledge is to place, multiply on the world's knowledge market and return to their own countries. That's the whole life insurance thing. So this integration of agencies in this way is a very, very rigid approach to development of education, an approach that will not speed us up, not give us quality, it will open up some new chapters, new discussions, and with what awaits us in the future, so with lifelong education we will continue to stagnate and we will wait for some better times when politics will have more hearing for the profession, and not just for some partial solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47372	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47373	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. I apologize if I'm going to repeat some of the things that were said in the debate, because I wasn't here the whole time, since there was a session of the National Committee at the same time. She was with us Prime Minister, and we thought we should all be there. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to start first as a member of the Committee on Education with the three amendments that we have made there and all the members agreed that they should be incorporated into the final text of the law and that is why I, first of all, support and stand behind these amendments. Secondly, I would like to point out that we need to discuss rationalization here, which is very important. We've heard that this is how about 28 million kunas will be saved, which is big money, and that's certainly something we need to support. We've been in these last five, six years, we who are now in second, I'm in second term, I remember we've established probably a hundred new agencies. This is one of the rare occasions when we're headed in the opposite direction, to bring two agencies together into one and basically contribute to the rationalization of savings. Unfortunately, in addition to that, my colleagues from the Croatian People's Party Club are not too confident that this will achieve a significant shift in professional education and adult education. Why do colleagues and colleagues say that? In fact, we're constantly setting up new agencies, we're rescheduling agencies, we're expanding the area of their work. But we've never done a systematic analysis of what we've achieved through the work of those agencies before, we never do. I think it's important to do and that we have to start with that. Here, I would be very interested in what are the achievements so far, which are the problems of one agency or another. In Croatia, colleagues and colleagues all know that we have a huge number of citizens who have not even graduated from primary school. That's about 700,000 people. What have we done to help these people finish primary school, to move towards a certain extra education? I'll tell you that we in the Primorian-Gorski County have a lot of difficulties. I will tell you that in many vocational schools, practicals are relatively modestly equipped, that there is a weak interest, that there is a dissatisfaction of many employers with the knowledge of these young people when they graduate from vocational schools. That's what we should talk about. Furthermore, in my county, the Primorje-Gorski County has a large number of people who have a working permit to come to Croatia and to actually patch up certain holes. The construction profession and shipbuilders would be practically on their knees without many profiles coming from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why don't we talk about it? Why don't we try and find some permanent solutions? Why do we change I don't know how to restructure certain agencies without seeing what their current impact is? I'd just like to say that I don't know maybe we should think if we really don't want an open discussion about it and objectively analyze the situation, then I, in a joke, know sometimes say in Rijeka that it might be best to open an agency to engage in foreign labour, literally we're in trouble in many profiles. No one's offering us a solution. I can't promise anything to people from these economic branches, because I haven't heard anything here about what we're really doing and what moves have been made. Finally, I would also like to say that the HNS Club has proposed two amendments. I couldn't talk before the club, I repeat because I was on the National Committee, so I'm just going to brief on the amendments. In fact, at the HNS Club, we believe that the first paragraph of Article 10 should be deleted. Namely, it's about the board of directors of the agency. As a second-degree body, it decides on the rights of workers from employment and in relation to work. In this regard, the text should be deleted because it is governed by Article 129. The labour law. However, even in this law that we have before us in Article 8 paragraph 2 of this final proposal, the law states that the conditions for the establishment and termination of employment and the working-legal position of agency workers apply to the provisions of the general rules on work that I have just warned of. Then, there is another amendment, the amendment in Article 12 behind point 6 we propose to add point seven, which would read: "determins the rights and obligations of workers in employment and in relation to employment." In particular, it is necessary to add this text in a way proposed by the amendment because this issue is governed by Article 127. The labour law and Article 12 of the first final draft law on the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. There's a little discrepancy here. We hope that the Proposer will read this text in detail in the Labour Act and here we accept our proposals so that there will be no discrimination between one law and another tomorrow. Here's some of our thinking. I hope the Proposer accepts some of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47374	Thank you very much. It's time for the debate next, Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47375	Thank you very much. Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues life is of course full of surprises, and I think this law is one of those for a whole series of reasons that make it impossible for us to stand behind it. I agree, in any case, with what Mr Kunst said in his debate, it just seems to me that there is no harmony between the premises and the conclusion, because the premises are something that we fully agree on, we disagree with what comes from the conclusion and there is a logical salto mortal that seems not completely successful. He's not quite successful because I'm afraid that normally, so what's expected on paper, but over a few years, it hasn't been difficult for four and a half years to achieve what's expected now to be compensated and compromised into this version. And finally, fellow Mance is not here, unfortunately, I would just warn him that in five years, there is a lot of things to be done if there is political will and competent people like Slovenia in four to five years reconstructed the entire education system and most likely became a European champion in that. So you can if you want to and if you want to. What's the problem with this law? He's seemingly one technical compression of two agencies into one. This technical compression in our court does not lead to those results that are expected and in fact does not rest on any firm grounds other than the administrative requirement to reduce the number of agencies and to obtain certain savings. In my court, any savings achieved that will be minimal will be completely negligible in relation to the damage that will be done. And that damage will pay more or less adult education or something else. What other thing? The latter is actually called the non-coordination and inconsistency of the functioning of the existing government, in which unfortunately there is continuity after 2.7 last year. Nothing important has changed. You've got four agencies working on education. One of them is called the Mobility Agency and the European Union Programmes. And that agency rightly talks about LLP, life long learning program, lifelong learning program. You're still talking about adult education, you're talking about a 50-year-old German social democracy programme that has been abandoned in many aspects, and has been redefined in many aspects. That's what we warned you about in 2006 when we came from the Brussels negotiations. You disobeyed the proposal. We've lost our initial assets. Turkey listened to the proposal, you were only wise, Turkey listened to the proposal and made the law and the Lifelong Learning Agency, Croatia did not. Croatia took its own indigenous path to adult education. What's the difference? So the stage is a difference not only in learning English, but in a completely different context than that addressed to and addressed to adult education. It's about learning... , it's about learning English, it's about acting, it's about expanding life experiences and actually learning and competences that maybe we couldn't get in regular education, and we're 17 or 18 or 70 years old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all about that. So first, it's about a terrible conceptal difference. The second is actually amazing, colleagues and colleagues, especially you from the ruling coalition, with which stubbornness we are going the wrong way. Croatia wants to go to Europe with anti-European measures. All the time, Europe has been talking about lifelong learning. And finally, when you bring two agencies together, instead of changing the name of this second, and so you change the whole programme, you stay on the wrong side, which is what the results of the negotiations warn you about, which warns you when you adopt the Law on Lifelong Learning, forgive adult education, which is being warned by the Government and the National Mobility Agency of the European Union programme. You're going your old ways. The agency then failed to carry out half of the expected jobs. Not even half. Croatia is expecting, among other things, these loans, which are being painfully prepared for a new development cycle. My colleagues and colleagues, we cannot achieve a new development cycle with an existing qualification structure. We can just continue the old cycle of operation. And now we have two options. One is to reform the education system and then wait 3, 4 or 5 years until new people come out of it educated in a new way. The second is to take seriously what is most effective, which is the cheapest and, in fact, the fastest lifelong learning, and throughout our lifetime learning, we adapt labour to the needs of labour or development potentials. That's not mandatory. We didn't organize modular study. As you know by the Bologna process, studying is a full-time job and there are no more extraordinary students. Extraordinary students can exist in the forms of lifelong learning. In order for that to be possible, it has to become modular. It's something we haven't even touched, let alone solved. Then, there are terrible needs that are expressed by many professional associations for schooling, for the continuity of education. Neither the Agency for Education and Education, nor the Agency for Professional Education, nor the Agency for Adult Education meets these requirements, and we remain as uneducated as we were yesterday, although there are people who would like to be educated, and we do not allow them, and we do not do our job. So, we both came up with a conceptual and operational appointment. And the basic difficulties in this relatively mechanical merger will actually be lifelong learning that we haven't even started with and will be part of adult education. And this is our most lively and dynamic, potentially most dynamic education system. From this we cannot accept this concept, we cannot accept this way of working, continuity we need discontinuity in a policy that has been going on since 2004. We need important changes, but not on paper, but in reality. Not in seven years, someone the day after tomorrow. And if we don't understand that, and if we don't understand the strategic importance of education for people who are going to be educated, but then eventually for all of us, for the whole community, for the nation, for humanity, however you want, we're not only going to stay where we are, but we're going to fall in relation to others. And when you look at the rare data in which Croatia is statistically located in world and European statistics, then you will actually see how far behind we are, how far behind we are in a whole series of disciplines, in a whole series of statistical elements, in education, in education, in investing in education, etc. And if we make a conceptual mistake, if we don't listen to arguments, then what happens will happen, that is. that we'll talk, you'll do your thing and then after four, five years you'll say ah, ah, ah, you were right. So I can't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47376	Thank you very much. It is up to the debate that representative Josip Leko is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47377	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President of the Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the motionary. So after such a good discussion by my colleague Flege about the essence of the problem, about the essence of the matter that should have been regulated by this law. I'm just going to say that I support the position of my colleague Flege, and I'm going to say a few sentences about the text of the law that indicate that the motioner has very superficially approached the final draft of the law. In fact, it should be said that Croatia has no agency law at all. So when they don't know what to do with the government, they decide to set up an agency. That this law does not even regulate the basic matter of whether the agency is a profitable or non-profit legal person? I think that should really stand in the article. 3. that the agency is a non-profit legal person. If we add that to the Law on Institutions, in Art. 1. The law on institutions states that the activity is also here in art. 1. defines what is activity, it is education and education, science and culture, information, sport, body culture. Therefore, it is determined that the activities are and the legislator is in art. 4. The Agency's activities are activities of planning, development, organisation, implementation and monitoring. These are jobs, and the activity remains that it is an activity of education. And that adult education or, as my esteemed colleague Flego says, what should be the organization of lifelong learning. This is an activity that must be defined and for which the Ministry and Government will be responsible for the reasons for which the Law on Institutions says and which is the logic of the state administration. And if it wasn't for that, in art. The 5th final draft of the agency's law on its work is submitted to the ministry. It's like the Ministry is a collective body. The ministry is decorated as a minister, an in-house person, who participates in the work of the government, answers the government for the work of the ministry and responds to the parliament for the work of the ministry. Such a formulation really says that in Croatia what is logical is that today's societies are organised according to the principles of public interest, especially in the field of education and knowledge activities. We can't say that the law is as it was written to determine this public social interest as it will come true. I won't go anymore, mostly the law deals with the statute matter. What's governed by the statutes deals with the law. And to establish the public and social interest and to make that enhanced representative body work hard, and that's what my colleague Flego was talking about, so I won't. I'll just say one more thing in the end. That this law violates the fundamental standards of building a legal system, and even this Parliament has adopted that one law cannot change other laws. Other laws cannot be changed, not only is this a legal standard but it is explicitly the conclusion of this House that it cannot be done, so a little effort has to be made, so with this law, bring in another 3 notes and say that something is deleted in other laws. That way we would have legal certainty, so if the citizens entered the law one wouldn't have a trap from another law waiting for them. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 20, I apologize Because this law, in addition to repealing the Regulations, which would have been accepted, lay down the Agency for the Education of Adults and repealing the Regulation establishing the Professional Education Agency, which would have been completely logical, but this law also amends the Law on adult education, the Law on Professional Education, etc. And it shouldn't be wise or a lawyer that the matter of the Law on Professional Education has anything to do with an agency that is defactively the statute of the Agency. The law is the statute of the agency. So what do we do now? Since the law does not hit the goals we want to achieve with the establishment of the agency, the objectives are better education of adults, i.e. lifelong education. So the contents aren't affected, the form is missed, but it's rejected. That way I won't vote for this law either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47378	Thank you very much, fellow Leakey. It is up to MP Sima Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47379	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Two independent agencies operate in the Republic of Croatia whose activity is aimed at monitoring, improving, developing, evaluating education in the field of secondary vocational education and adult education. This legislative proposal establishes a new agency with the aim of uniting activities in the field of vocational education, adult education and regulates its status, activity and framework for organisation. The new agency will bear the name of the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education and will carry out activities with an emphasis on lifelong learning aimed at improving knowledge, skills, competence for personal, social and professional needs. This legislative proposal brings together the Agency for adult education and the Agency for Professional Education in a new agency, the Agency for Professional Education and Education, and ceases to exist as an independent legal person, while the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education assumes as a legal follower of all the tasks, equipment, food and other documentation, means of work, financial resources and rights and obligations and employees of those agencies. By passing this law, the Agency for the Education of Adults and the Professional Education Agency will join the newly established Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education and cease to exist as independent legal persons. For the implementation of this Act, no additional funding is needed in the state budget only in 2010 with the establishment of the Professional Education and Education Agency of adults would achieve certain savings of around 430 thousand kuna. For this reason, I support the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults for adopted proposals and comments from first to second reading as well as amendments to the parent committee, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47380	Thank you very much. And last reported for debate, fellow MP Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47381	Honored Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is one more of the laws that come from the Government before the Croatian Parliament in a way that there is no simulation of the effects and consequences of this Law. It is therefore a law which mechanically connects the two agencies into one, and one of the main reasons for the merger is that of savings. However, the Law also says that the adoption of this Act would have a new agency clearly established and would carry out activities with an emphasis on lifelong learning aimed at improving knowledge, skills, competence for basic social and professional needs. Therefore, as a reason for the adoption of this Law, lifelong learning is also mentioned, however, what is interesting is that in the whole of the law, no lifelong learning is mentioned but is mentioned only in that opening part of the law, preambles. What is also disastrous is the fact that on the website of the European Union Delegation in Croatia related to the Lifelong Learning programme, I quote: "Croatia does not participate fully in the Lifelong Learning Programme, however, some activities from the programme are open to Croatian institutions and individuals through individual pilot projects, and to implement these pilot projects and to lead the project of lifelong learning i.e. ILLP Integrated life long learning program is in charge of the EU Mobility and Programmes Agency in Croatia. So the question arises, in fact, which is the interrelationship between all these agencies, this new Agency, for vocational education and adult education, which is the interrelationship with the EU Mobility Agency and programmes, which are individual aspects of lifelong learning dealing with this Mobility Agency, or this newly created Agency. Lifelong learning is extremely important for the development of the economy, for example in the quality infrastructure segment, in the section of accreditation, standardisation and measurement, whose effective structure is prescribed in Article 73. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement that, without effective quality infrastructure, we do not have access to full membership of the European Union and therefore, and agencies dealing with international standards and norms that should be respected and adopted by the Republic of Croatia and accredited by the European agencies themselves. The question arises with whom this Agency will be accredited. International standards require that people dealing with certain knowledge and skills must be educated lifelongly, for example, norms are random about accreditation of medical and biomedical laboratories, standards on accreditation of moderate and test laboratories, however, despite the fact that it is an extremely important requirement for the involvement of our scientists, experts, experts, experts, experts of technicians in economic activity, in this Act only the economy is referred to in Article 9 in which the choice of the governing council is made. Thus, despite the preeminent segment relating to the overall progress of the economy, the relationship with lifelong learning, the vocational education throughout this Law is therefore referred to in just one single article, except that the economic social council there is also mentioned at the end of the Law in its reasoning. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, the agencies have become in some way a red cloth to the Croatian public, I would even dare say the subject of ridicule, so a few months ago that article in the Morning List, which touched a number of agencies in the Republic of Croatia, actually relativated the need for so many agencies to exist without a clear submission that these agencies contribute to all the progress of the Republic of Croatia, the growth of the gross social product, as they meet the expectations put before them mainly in these legal segments. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That should probably be fulfilled by a high school, let alone the university before these activities listed in this article. So, the fact is that I say we come to a law that has no clear insight into the consequences and some kind of model that the consequences of this law, other than mechanical savings, will be at all times the progress of the Republic of Croatia, to interact with the economy, to the growth of gross social product. So, one mechanical merger of two agencies that could have been carried out with a lot less effort and without this Assembly actually dealing with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47382	Thank you. And the secretary of state, in conclusion, Mr. Željir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47383	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much, both the honourable MPs and the MPs who participated in the debate. Thank you all for participating in the amendments that have come to the proposer. I will, at the end of my final address on the amendment submitted, also manifest myself. Let me just touch a few details that are mentioned here. Of course, the topic is very broad and this is really given a lot to talk about and, of course, with different aspects to evaluate everything that has been done so far and everything that should be done in the sphere of this part of education. I'm going to single out this part first that applies to a part of our citizens who don't have a finished elementary school that doesn't have an 8th grade. Of course, that number's pretty big. It is mentioned here that it is 20%, the truth is a little bit less, 2.8% is those who have crossed the school threshold never, aged 15 to 90 and something and we have 15.76% of those who did not finish all primary school classes, so that's about 18% of the citizens who didn't finish school. These are data that would now be somewhat smaller after 2004. Partly because we now have a very high percentage of the elementary school of all those who enroll, which is understandable. And the other part also because in 2003 the Republic of Croatia accepted a project called "For Croatian literacy and the Way to the Preferred Future", a decade of literacy that lasts until 2013. As part of this project, which is conducted by primary schools, the popular open schools, and somewhere in high schools that want all are invited and allow all citizens of the Republic of Croatia over 15 years of age to complete a primary school that for some reason did not finish. So there's no conditions, there's no disabling someone, and there's someone that's enabled. All those who want to be fully aware of the cost of the state, i.e. the state budget. Realising this project, so at this point we have just over 6.5 thousand citizens who have completed their primary education as many classes as they lacked. Of course we encourage it. We're all open to that possibility. Every school, every mere open school that wants to implement this programme can be implemented and all costs per educational period are paid from the state budget. This is our contribution, the commitment since 2003, and this continues from year to year. We of course very often invite all citizens who have not finished their education by county. And something else along with it. It is offered after the 8th grade of education for a simple profession also paid by the state. And such persons, it doesn't matter what 45 years of age or more they can look for in their midst their place on the labour market, because they come up with some qualification, training for some occupation. So that actually reduces this number. Not as much as we wanted, but the best providers know how hard it is for them to get a person at a later age to come back into school benches and end it. It is their privilege to do so to the extent that they do so. Furthermore, when it comes to all providers implementing adult education programmes. I'll remind you of these last two years in 2008 and 2009. In 2008, 90 different institutions asked our agency for the approval of 774 new programmes, and in 2009, 182 institutions so twice as requested a thousand 731 programmes. Well, don't just go with the grade to talk about some kind of stagnation when the data says it's completely different. Let me also briefly say when we talk about harmonising with the labour market. I, of course, must talk first of all about the regular system of education, but it can also apply to these programmes. There are economies in our counties that are the right move. When we enroll in the first grade of high school where children will gain their first occupation, then the school in the field proposes its registration plan, and the county according to the needs of the economy in the area, gives consent to such an entry plan. The ministry has no reason not to accept what the county says, because the county probably knows best what they need in their area. Therefore, if that remark is to go somewhere, then surely it is not necessary to go to this ministry that is correct in accepting what is sought and said from this micro-regional. Work permits were also mentioned for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia each year to grant certain quotas in construction, tourism, etc. It is indeed our reality, and of course we should fight to have our own personnel so much that we do not have to issue work permits for certain occupations. Why don't we educate in the construction of our staff, so we won't look for them from the outside. You see, there are certain corrections here. I will remind you only of last year when the Ministry of Tourism along with us went into one action by providing loans for children who will enter catering activities but also by equipping the practices of our schools in order to make this education more quality and the first time back for the past six years that shift happened, or more students were enrolled than in previous years. But I have to point out here that there are such trends in the economy where certain companies themselves lend loans not only to students but also to our students in high schools to enroll those very deficiting professions as the esteemed representative Kunst here has been mentioned. So there is hope that there will be even more support from the economy which is logical and what is expected, it would not be good if only the state, only the state budget, were the state grants, whether state grants or in some other way because we educate children who would work in some places and then it would be correct that and only the economy, that economic operators themselves would involve themselves in this process as much as they can. It is mentioned that certain occupations are extinct. Yes, new ones are born. Maybe in ten years there'll be a hit on some kind of occupation that doesn't even exist today, that's the projections. We can only conclude it, but it's actually a process that we're all witnessing, as often as possible. Indeed, different assessments have been made when it comes to the action of our two agencies from the same club, where one could say a good Law on Professional Education, there are some shifts and in the other case from that same club, it could be heard saying that it was all wrong and that it was a total debacle. We are talking here about the merger of agencies and the esteemed representative Šetić has opened up some possibility, in the future I absolutely agree with such a finding. We have several agencies, and the Education and Education Agency and these two that we are now bringing together and the Mobility and EU Programmes Agency. Who knows, maybe some cabinet at the ministry in the future decides to set up an education institute where everything will be found. It's hard to predict, so maybe some people who announce that it might be our future that might hit. And when we talk about investment, then we had a chance to hear that they weren't enough investments. Of course, we agree with this investment is never enough but now, even if we have to bear in mind that what is nominally in the state budget is not the only investment but that these investments are still there. If we in the Republic of Croatia, with what is in the state budget, add everything that is invested to the founders, to what is paid to say in private by natural persons, which is paid by local communities and in the form of assistance to the institutions of credit to participants, etc. Then that amount would be significantly higher. But we're adding to that something else that is now current. So now we're talking about pre-accession funds, we're talking about the IPA project in this case, and in the future when we're a member of the European Union, then we're going to talk about structural funds. Let me just remind you. For example, three contracts were signed in 2009 and the following. Inclusion of students with difficulties in employment education. The contract was signed on 11 November 2009 at 994 thousand and 980 euros. The second project is the further development of the Croatian qualification framework. You who follow a little better know what's going on and how important it is to us. The contract was signed on 30 November 2009 at the amount of a million and 468 thousand euros. The third contract is to strengthen the institutional framework for the development of professional standards, i.e. qualifications and curricula, the contract was signed on 12 November 2009 at the amount of millions and 779 thousand and 965 euros. For the quality assurance project, the contract was signed on 8 January 2010 at the amount of a million and 639 thousand and 750 euros. So, a total of 5 million 882 thousands and 695 euros have been agreed so far, according to plans and deadlines. For now, 738,000 894 euros have been paid as planned. The total funds are actually 10 million and 782 thousand 695 euros, so there are two unsigned contracts left, which are the implementation of new curriculas for a million and 100 thousand euros and a regional network of educational institutions for a million and 500 thousand euros. Signing is planned in May. As regards the grant of grants to educational institutions, the evaluation is ongoing, or the tender for three allocations. First, involving students with difficulties in employment education. The competition was announced on August 10th of last year, the deadline for applications on December 4th, amounting to a million and 320 thousand euros. The launch of new curricula, the tender was also announced on August 10th, the deadline for the application was December 18th last year and the amount of funds 4 million and 300 thousand euros. And the regional network of educational institutions, the announcement of the tender on September 1st of last year and the deadline for applications on January 28th of this year, amounting to 3 million and 500 thousand euros. So a total of 9 million and 120 thousand euros in grants. If we add it all together, then the total funds of service contracts and grant grants are 19 million 902 000 695 euros and from the new IPA allotment in 2010 and 2011 for the education sector, funds amounting to 19 million euros were planned. Here, maybe I'll just give you a hint of what we've got at this point, so it counts on these funds, of course, according to how we planned it, and we're sure we'll make it happen. Let's maybe clear up something termologically. Here we have had the opportunity to hear that the Republic of Slovenia, our neighbouring country, has gone far in these programs, that they have done a lot of what is fact. But the fact is the same that they don't mind that they, like us, have a law whose name is the Law on adult education. So that's the same name in the Republic of Slovenia. And finally let me refer to the amendments that have been submitted. They are the first amendments to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the Committee Mr Doric, the first amendment is accepted. The second amendment, I hope you have consulted with members who are present here and most of it, we would accept in changed form so that in this whole text that you have offered yourself where you say in Article 4(2). "the second subparagraph is complemented so that it reads." We suggest that it be "change and read." Because, you know, if it were to be complemented and said, then this formulation would be very rough and would be "coordinated by proposals from expert bodies, harmonize proposals from relevant expert bodies and working bodies in the system of vocational education and adult education". I'm sure your intensity was to be this formulation as it says here, so then I suggest, I'll read exactly how it should be. Instead of the current second indent, we accept that it says: "coordinates proposals from relevant professional and working bodies in the system of vocational education and adult education". The third amendment of the committee is also accepted as proposed. And let me just briefly refer to two other amendments that have been proposed by the HNS Representatives' Club. The amendment first cannot be accepted. In particular, Article 10(1) of the 11th indent provides for a two-stage settlement of workers' rights, i.e. in the second instance before the Administrative Council. And then, of course, the worker is entitled to the Labour Act to address the court and request protection from the court within 15 days. So for these reasons, we feel that we do not need to formulate, so we would not accept that amendment. And the second amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS is accepted. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47384	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We are going to vote on the items of the agenda that we have concluded. First, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Professional Education and Education Agency of adults, second reading, P.Z. No. 438, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Club of HNS Representatives. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the first and third amendments of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the Committee's 2nd amendment. Mr. Željir Janjic, State Secretary. Amendment to Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47386	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Amendment 2. We accept the Committee on Education, Science and Culture in a changed form so that in the first sentence, the Honored Vice-President of the Committee, instead of saying, "it is complemented" that it says "changes" so that we do not have repetitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47387	It was accepted in the formulation as stated by the Secretary of State. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted two amendments to the HNS Club of Representatives. ... He accepted the 2nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives, it should be obvious about 1st of Article 10. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47388	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The applicant cannot accept the 1st amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS because Article 10(1) of the 11th indent provides for a two-stage settlement on workers' rights, i.e. in the second instance before the Administrative Council. And after that, I must stress here, the worker is entitled to the Labour Act to address the court and to request protection from the court within 15 days. So we don't think we need to go with this solution. I would ask the Proposer to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47389	Here's Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47390	We're sorry you didn't accept this amendment, because this kind of interpretation actually puts the Agency's administrative council in the position that no other regulation has. It is not possible to achieve a two-stage process within the Agency, but also because the Labour Act treats workers' rights quite differently, i.e. procedural action in the event of violations of their rights. There are serious criticisms about the position of the proposings and of the people we consult with, who know under 1) how the administrative board of the agency works and what its powers are. The Administrative Council does not represent the employer but only the Director does so. We stay on the amendment and ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47391	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This Final Proposal for a Law on the Professional Education and Education Agency of adults was adopted by the majority of votes, 78 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 32 against, together with the amendments adopted. We move to - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of the Programme Council of Croatian Broadcasting is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The Committee proposed this decision on the basis of Article 18. The law on Croatian broadcasting. You received the proposal by mail. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47393	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, on 12 October 2007, the decision of the Croatian Parliament appointed Master Đuro Popiac as a member of the HRT Programme Council. However, on November 19th 2009, Djuro Popijac was appointed as Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. In accordance with the law, he submitted a request to the Committee on Information, Information and Media on 20 November 2009 for the discharge of the duties of members of the HRT Council. On 24 November 2009, the Committee established a proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio Television Đura Popijac and such a proposal for a decision gives you the opportunity to adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47394	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the SDP club Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47395	Thank you again very much. So, Mr. Djuro Popijac was appointed to the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council on a proposal for a parliamentary minority, and two years later he was invited to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to work in it as a minister, in a government run by the Croatian Democratic Union, which is the majority party in that government. This is proof that the parliamentary minority in this case, in the case of Djura Popijac, as in any other case, whenever she had the right to propose any member of the HRT Programme Council, was not guided by party interests. Djuro Popiac is not a person close to any party to the parliamentary minority, and yet the parliamentary minority has proposed exactly Djuru Popiac because, as in any other case, he acted responsibly and seriously, rather than partyically, taking care primarily of the interests of Croatian broadcasters. When Djuro Popijac was invited to the government, he went to the government and became a member of the HRT Council. There is an incomprehensible behaviour of the Croatian Democratic Community Club about this in the Croatian Parliament. With regard to the election of the 11th member of the HRT Council, the law is violated, parliamentaryism is trampled, an honest and professional person is rudely insulted and the election of the head director of HRT is blocked, which not only extends the crisis on HRT but also deepens. Let's take it in a row. It's breaking the law. The Croatian Radio Television Act has been in force for 10 years, and it clearly prescribes how members of the HRT Programme Council are elected. They are proposed by civil society associations, the Media Committee finds that candidateships are justified and guides them to representatives' clubs to agree. Representative clubs have a chance to agree on someone. If they do not agree then the law makes it clear: one member of the Programme Council is elected on a parliamentary majority proposal, the other, on a parliamentary minority proposal and a plenary session, confirms such a proposal. Even though it does not appear in the law, the club representing national minorities also has the right to propose one member who is then adopted by a plenary session without questioning why it is proposed, rather than someone else. Such a parliamentary practice has been respected here for 10 years until this case. As Djuro Popijac was the parliamentary minority's proposal, the parliamentary minority had the right to propose a candidate for the vacant place she did. Parliamentaryism is being trampled in what way? The HDZ MPs' club refuses, members of that club who have a majority in the Media Committee refuse to comply with the law, refuse to accept a parliamentary minority proposal. They fully derivate the rights that the parliamentary minority has in this House. It is about the same as when we elect the vice-presidents of the Parliament that the parliamentary majority of HDZ and coalition partners say yes, but we do not accept this candidate of yours. We'll take it, but if you suggest someone else. That's the point of parliamentaryism. The essence of parliamentaryism is the right of the majority to decide and protect minority rights, especially when these rights are strictly prescribed by law. Unrespecting the law, breaking knowingly and deliberately, although warned of it, this HRT Act is the kind of behavior that HDZ members in this committee have actually trampled on parliamentaryism. Third, candidate Vera Roma Škarica is offended. It is offended by the way that a conflict of interest is invented which does not exist and not only does not exist, but it cannot theoretically exist because Mrs. Škarica does not work, she is a secretary there and does not work at all on matters with which she could come into conflict of interest, nor is this association which she is a secretary producing films that are ever shown on HRT. They've never shown themselves, and they'll probably never show up. Yet it is attributed to conflict of interest. The public's reaction is a mess. The coordination for the electronic media of the Croatian Association of Directors and Croatian Association of Producers for the attack on the candidate film profession for the representative at the HRT Programme Council held a press conference the day before yesterday where the conflict of interest listed as an obstacle to this candidacy was a common lie that caused anger and bitterness of the entire film profession and the cultural public. At a time when expertise is apostrophe as the most important imperative in all fields it is amazing that the candidate who has just earned this candidacy has been disabled. Vera Robić Škarica as a candidate were proposed by two professional associations whose members of different partyafinities and around this candidate agreed...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47396	Mr. Representative, if you'll excuse me a moment, just a moment. It's here on the agenda to resolve the members of this council, not the appointment. So you're out of the agenda. You explain the resolution, and the appointment when it's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47397	The resolution of a member of the HRT Programme Council has led to the situation I am talking about. So I'm totally on the agenda and I'm asking you to let me finish my presentation on behalf of the club. Thank you very much. At this press conference, it is said that the motives of members of the Assembly's committee who have disabling its candidacy should be examined. The audience also included Miroslav Mikuljan. It was, he was one of the candidates for a member of that Programme Council, one of the candidates.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47398	We're not discussing the candidate's proposal. We're discussing a solution and it's writing to you, please. Don't tempt me to create some tensions here now needlessly. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure say, "The speaker can talk about the subject under the established agenda. If the speaker gets away from the topic of the agenda, the chairman will warn him to stick to the agenda, so that if the speaker is called after another, etc." So, the agenda is a resolution, not a council member's appointment. I think it's perfectly clear and it's unnecessary for me to intervene for the third time. And please finish your debate on the discharge of a member of the Programme Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47399	Mr. President of the Parliament...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47400	Oh, please, is it about that agenda or isn't that what I'm setting up right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47401	Mr. President of the Parliament, as I have already said, the resolution of a member of the Djura Popper has led to the situation I'm talking about. I beg you nicely, you invite me not to challenge you. I invite you not to challenge me. I kindly invite you not to challenge me. I kindly invite you to allow me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47402	You've been challenging the entire Parliament for years, but here we tolerate you. Let's finish up about... which is on the agenda or I'll have to take your word for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47403	But Mr. President, we're not here at the HDZ Club session, where you throw away, and then they tell you to shut up. I won't tell you to shut up. I ask you kindly for the third time to allow me, on behalf of the SDP Club, to state my position, that is, the club's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47404	Mr. Nenadu Stazic, Mr. Representative, who is here on behalf of the club if you do not complete your debate on the agenda of a council member and continue to discuss something else, I will have to take away your word for what you obviously want to provoke here in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47405	When Djuro Popiac was resolved, when Djuro Popiac was appointed to the government, an empty place opened up. Mr Mikuljan, who has not been proposed, also appeared in this place. But who said at the meeting: "I decided to withdraw my candidacy as a member of the HRT Council for a non-democracy act on the election of members of the HRT Council. Vera Robic is an ideal candidate for the place.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47406	Mr. Representative Nenadu Stazic, pursuant to Article 210. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, paragraph 3. I take away your word at this point of the agenda. And please leave the pay phone. Three, four times I warned you, you want to provoke it. You did it, I took away your word on the basis of Article 210(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47407	I wanted the public to hear HDZ behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47408	Please leave the pay phone. We have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure so far, and, ma'am, I don't know what you're going to do, but I'm obliged to give my word to those who were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure first, so it's first, and then you'll get it. The first is Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47409	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I've been calling for what you've already corrected in this debate, in the meantime, for the violation of Article 210. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, as my colleague Stazic did not stick to the agenda at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47410	We have the next breach of the Rules of Procedure, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47411	Mr President, I also call on Article 210 that you did not react at the very beginning, I felt it was necessary to react because Mr. MP said the importance of parliamentaryism was threatened, and I believe that the item of the agenda is a proposal for resolution, not a proposal and appointing, and therefore Article 210 is injured and it is important that the speaker can only talk about the subject on which the agenda is discussed, and this is according to the established agenda. So I think you might have had to react before.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47412	You objected to me a little bit that I let the MP talk about a subject that was on the agenda. I did. Yes, I allowed it, not because I didn't know about Article 210, especially paragraph 3, but to try to get back on the subject in some way. But as Mr. Stazic continued to leave and in no way wanted to get back on the subject, then I had to intervene. So the maximum tolerance was, but this has gone too far. And there is Mrs Ivanka Roksandic, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47413	Thank you, Mr. President. The colleagues have already said, and you have also responded well that you have responded, because for the public point of the agenda, the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the members of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council. Except in the first two sentences, Mr. Stazic did not say anything else about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47414	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milanka Opačić has a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47415	On behalf of the SDP club, I've been looking for a break for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47416	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47417	On behalf of the SDP club, I've been looking for a break for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47418	But you have at least one word to say in the Rules of Procedure, which is why.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47419	Yes, I need a club session to consult on participating in Parliament's further work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47420	Please nice, I don't know, I don't see what's the reason you're looking for a break right now, but you're gonna get a break for 10 minutes, but we're not gonna let a debate about a agenda point that's not on the agenda. Within 10, so there's up to 12 hours and 40 minutes we continue, or, 40 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Ms. Milanka Opačić,... No, you can't talk about this topic. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Not on this subject. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If the speaker does not hold on to the agenda after the second call, the President will take away his word. In that case, the representative may no longer take part in the debate on the subject of the agenda. .../Speakers speak out loud, they don't understand./... What? If it's nothing to do with the subject then okay. I'm talking about the subject. I've been saying it's nothing to do with the subject, and now, I've been explaining it all along, haven't I? That there's nothing to do with the subject that's on the agenda here. So are you going to talk or Mr. Stazic about the break?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47422	I beg you nicely like this, Mr. President. Mr. Nenad Stazic is SDP's vice president. We've been looking for a break for 15 minutes. We didn't make any conclusions on that club. So these five minutes now here talking to the Parliament is primarily to explain why we're looking for a break and what conclusions we've come to as a club. So I ask you nicely to respect the SDP club's decision and our views will be presented here by Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47423	I now give my word to the vice president of SDP's Club of Representatives, Mr. Nenad Stazic for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47424	So, the SDP club has considered the emerging situation, the SDP club is protesting that I don't know which times in this SDP club's representative takes the floor when he talks about important social issues. The SDP Club further believes that it is cynical to warn that the topic discussed here on behalf of the club should be discussed within the point of appointment of a new member of the council when this item cannot even come on the agenda, the appointment, precisely because of the things the SDP representative warned about. The SDP Club further believes that this is one manipulation that prevents the presentation of important views on social events that are in the public interest. The SDP club is concerned that the signing of a petition of representatives of the film profession, film institutions, members of the European Film Academy, prominent citizens from the European Film Directors public field in Brussels, under the chairmanship of Istvan Szab, who co-ordinates this action at European level. The SDP club is concerned that the entire cultural Europe is on its feet against such non-culture of HDZ. The SDP club is further concerned that an ad has been published today titled "public request to suspend the political blockade of the HRT programme council" signed by 11 civil society associations and 180 of the most prominent people in culture. These 180 people and those 11 associations and representatives of European institutions express their concern about the behaviour of HDZ, which was warned or tried to warn before the word was taken away. The SDP Club continues to pray, not to pray but to demand that in the debate on this subject, it is allowed to talk about the essential facts in this society that burden this society, which is being torn down by parliamentaryism, which is being trampled by the laws. And that this debate is no longer limited from the President's table. We are followed by an individual debate, that the debate is not limited, because it will be an attempt to try to silence the main parliamentary party. And the SDP club assures you you won't succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47425	This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament foresees when the representative is not satisfied with the explanation or with the measure expressed by the President or the Chair of the assembly session may request that he submit an opinion to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system within 24 hours. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. The opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System shall be decided without debate. So there is a business opportunity for you to question my decision and to discuss it with the Committee on Rules of Procedure and the political system. It says here, I'm interpreting what it says, not what someone would like to hear or say. Then Art. 210th says the speaker can talk about the topic under the established agenda. The speaker no matter who he is. So, everything here says, and don't make us, I'm not going to express myself to what, when you're questioning a business provision. Because you did not, except in the first sentence, so I let you speak, and you were not back on the subject of which you were concerned, but you kept on saying the same thing. Out of the agenda and agenda points that are on the agenda. So there are all business opportunities, here no one wanted anything but to stick to the agenda that we owe everyone. Because that's what the Rules of Procedure says. I warned you 2.3 times you continued the same thing, even started to say what I or someone said at the club of HDZ representatives which is also not the topic of this agenda point. And what I or someone told me at my club is none of your business, Mr. Stazic. You understand? Now, since there were several corrections to the incorrect allegations here before, and since I was obliged to give the word for breach of the Rules of Procedure before, and since Mrs Opačić asked for a word, I did not have time to give the word to those who were looking for a correction of the incorrect assumption. So, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to give it to you now. You understand? It's the same in the Rules of Procedure. So he will be the first Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47427	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My incorrect quote that I wish to correct consists of Mr Stazic arguing and saying that Mrs Vera Robic Škarica is the proposal of a parliamentary minority, that is incorrect, that is the proposal of the Croatian Employers' Association was in that term when, for Đura Popijaci, I was confused.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47428	The speaker was subsequently involved.......The proposal for a new member and the member is not on the agenda, and that is the thing, and please let us get down to that agenda point on the agenda, as this applies to the other side.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47429	If you allow the president, I've missed what I wanted to say, but I can say one part... is that it's a harsh violation of the law, and I'd like to refute it because no harsh violation of the law is at stake, it's what's called a really possible conflict of interest stemming from the resume of the lady who wrote it herself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47430	Thank you. We now have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47431	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In this debate, you went well, but you didn't insist on it. I agree that the injured article 210 if you insisted that this was not the topic of the debate then you should have warned Mr Djakic first what he did but after you continued you should have taken away his word, which you did not, I ask you to stick to it then.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47432	Mr. Representative, as I have allowed Mr. Stazic to speak a few minutes of off-the-book talk, so I have heard of correcting what he wanted to correct, and then I reacted that this is not the correction, and don't remind me what I will do, I will do what is written here in the Rules of Procedure and don't worry about it. I reacted faster with Mr. Djakic than with Mr. Trazic, so why didn't you intervene that he was off topic at the time. Mrs. Lukacic also had a correction to the incorrect allegations. Please only refer to the agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47433	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, counterpart Stazic said HDZ lawmakers refuse to respect the law and proposals of the parliamentary minority. I just want to say that this has never happened that HDZ representatives do not respect or refuse to comply with the law, even in a specific case that Mr. Stazic meant, so do not say what is not true, we HDZ representatives are very concerned about the respect of all the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47434	Thank you. We have another correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47435	Thank you very much, Mr. President, counterpart STazic accused parliament's majority specifically of HDZ representatives of blocking the appointment of the 11th programme council member from blocking the election of chief director. Due to Croatia's public and everyone here needs to say loudly and clearly the Croatian Radio Television Board numbers 11 members, and within the 10 members can function for the selection of directors, a two-thirds majority is needed and in no way stands the claim that the election of 11 members would block the selection of the principal director.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47436	So, it's not about the election of 11 members, it's about the resolution of that one member, please, if we're going to be consequential then let's be within that. And Mr. Boris Kunst is also correcting an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47437	Mr. President, by correcting an incorrect allegation, you can only correct what the representative said nothing else. I'd like to do it in that sense, and my colleague Maras has to know the same, and then that's what this is about, and I have to say that I want these two of my corrections to the incorrect quotes to be connected to one because one and the other are being referred to. It was that the treading of the Croatian Radio Television Act was incorrect, because of this election and that the election of members of the HRT Council could not come on the agenda. I would just like to warn here that the Law on Croatian Radio Television has made it clear that unless the clubs agree with the proposal of all candidates, the Committee will determine the remaining number of candidates in charge of representation, etc., and then the Croatian Parliament appoints members of the Council of Croatian Radio Television. So there's no reason to threaten fellow Stazic because he's the president of that committee but to respect the legal procedure, and let the Parliament vote on candidates and he will choose who he will be...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47438	Thank you very much. So this is not at all about who will propose, vote etc., because when it comes to the agenda then it will be adopted here and then we will discuss it. For the time being, it says a proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council. I ask all those who have answered the word here, regardless of the name of the clubs or individually to stick to the agenda points and that they can only talk about the resolution of the members of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council. Please don't tell me, I don't want the excess here, I want to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Allow me to stick to the Rules of Procedure and please do not further say in this respect to spread the subject. Here. Now at the club, Mr. Nenad Stazic, the vice president of the SDP Club, was at the debate, and were also correcting incorrect allegations. We had corrections to incorrect allegations, and that was resolved by the Committee. So you can correct an incorrect quote when someone is speaking on behalf of the club but you can't have a replica on that statement. 223a. Paragraph 5. Please now have the correction Mr. Boris Kunst who has absorbed this one and the other, has Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47439	Ma, I also want everyone who ate said Mr. Stazić on behalf of the Club, at the expense of the HDZ Club, I repeat, we are not discussing a new member, but the resolution of an old member of the Programme Council is still now Mr. Popiè and everything that is said at the expense of the HDZ Club does not stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47440	Thank you. We have Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardic for this debate as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47441	Thank you very much, Mr. President, my colleague Kunst has corrected it, so I am correcting what my colleague Stazic said was breaking the laws. I will not quote what my colleague Kunst has already said, but I call on Mr Stazic to study Article 18 of the Sixth Law on Croatian Radio Television, and, as chairman of the Committee, determine this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47442	Thank you. So, we continue to discuss this item on the agenda is the SDSS Club and Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47443	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'd like to thank my colleagues and colleagues for letting me speak before they did. As regards this item of the agenda, it is clear on the discharge of members of the HRT Programme Council that the usual circumstances are for this Assembly and its representatives and MPs a routine job which is done without specific debates only on the basis of a proposal from the relevant committee. However, since the situation with regard to the HRT Programme Council and the state of the HRT itself is such a regrettable job today cannot be routine for us. For this reason, there are understandable misunderstandings that occur at the relationship we saw just before, between the part of the MPs and the president himself. They are only an indicator of the situation, because, as we know, the Programme Council was today due to elect a new director, because Croatian Radio-Television is working with students and is acting with circumstances that are not unfortunately such that we, as representatives on behalf of this House who is the founder and who is taking care of this public enterprise, can without difficulty say we accept the resolution of the former member of Mr Popijac today, the minister or member of the Government. The program council today did not select a new director, probably because it works in incomplete and incomplete composition. And because it works in incomplete and incomplete composition, it is our duty as colleague and colleague, Mr. President, that as soon as possible we create assumptions that it works in complete composition. And this opportunity to resolve an old member should be used to make it particularly prominent. We've wasted a lot of time so far, and today's the time to say we can't waste any more time. Otherwise, Croatia's television will come into a situation where Hungary's public television is also below the level that can be considered a justification for public media activity. In that sense, I think it is important here to say that the Croatian Programme Council is acting therefore, and is taking care of the culture of speech on public television, the financial business of public television and the public television programme itself and, of course, choosing the director and editor-in-chief and their assistants when it comes to Croatian television or Croatian radio, that now the circumstances are such that the Programme Council cannot do so. And our impression, not only on the basis of what can now be seen in the work of Croatian television and radio, but on the basis of discussions held before some committees of this Parliament, and above all in front of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the incomplete composition of the Committee on Information and Informalisation of this Assembly, in which we have warned that the level of culture of speech and culture on Croatian television is worryingly low, that the level of professionalism in this respect is also worryingly low. And on the third hand, the financial situation is so worrying that given the huge debt and the deluges that exist in this respect, there are where certain segments of this important public media are compared to the business of certain segments. These conclusions were adopted on the Committee on Human Rights and it is time for six months to discuss them. However, as Croatian television operates in the transitional period with the performer, and not with the one who should be responsible, we are now actually in a situation that we do. And I, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, think that we need to take the subject more seriously on Croatian television than it is just a question of an old or tomorrow new member of the programme council. Whether we do this on boards as parent as the Committee on Human Rights and the Committee on Media, or if we do it differently, it remains up to us to discuss it. But I think it's our duty to preserve that public medium from the devastation that's obviously happening in it. And to conclude that I do not cross the line that you can rightly take into account in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to conclude, which is that I think today's resolution of the old member must be a reason to choose a new member by quick procedure. And secondly, to discuss the situation on Croatian television about what we can do, which is the question of the programme, the question of speech culture, the issue of funding, and that means the management of the finances that exist there, because the situation in this regard is, according to our knowledge and the conclusions we had from earlier alarming. And in the interest of protecting that media and public enterprises, it is our duty to do so as soon as possible. Because obviously there are some who are interested in prolonging this state as long as possible, for us this House, the actors of political and public life, it's not in the interest. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47444	Thank you very much, Mr. Pupovac. I agree that this topic actually suggests one initiation of a broader debate on the state of television. And I think that's quite all right. And that we need both the occasion and the election of the 11th member, but also the need to discuss Croatia's radio-television and I think that should be organised either by adequate committees or to find some other form, but we certainly need to discuss it. This time, I think we need to focus on the resolution of this member, and the rest of this is what I agree to open up a special debate. Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47445	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here we have this one called the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Croatian Radio-Television Programme, and then here it is said: "The Mr. Poppin of the Office of a member of the HRT Programme Council is being resolved on its own request.". So in its explanation, the Decision of the Croatian Parliament appointing six members of the Croatian Programme Council since 12 October 2007. "The People's Newspaper" etc. Mr. Poppie has been appointed a member of the Programme Council. On 19 November 2009, Mr Popijac was appointed as Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Law on HRT "National Journal" No. 25/03. provided that members of the Council may not be officials in accordance with Article 20(1) and (2). The law on HRT was passed, he was simply resolved, not to read the whole of this argument now. Of course this is logical, but the point is what my predecessors were talking about. What about Mrs. Tomic's choice? With the ruling view, the choice of Mrs. Vera Tomic Rogic is difficult and it would be also likely with some other proposals from the opposition only that a new director of Croatian Radio-Television can be chosen with one sure majority. Today we witnessed such an attempt. He didn't make it, maybe it's best that he didn't, but we'll see how that happens in due course. The fact is that whoever has the power over Croatian Radio Television in this country in some way has the power or almost has it. And I would almost dare say that whoever is director of Croatian Radio Television in this country is either acting or having a fourth, fifth most influential function in our society. And now, as Mr. Pupovac says, instead of discussing opportunities on HRT which are all not good but again HRT is public television, television of all citizens and as such with all its losses, interpersonal relations I claim again and as such better than other televisions but it will be more likely to be worse for them in due time than it is possible if we do not establish this council which the SDP gentlemen talked about as soon as possible, if as soon as possible the director is not elected, if there is no financial consolidation of the house that needs to be spoken of publicly, openly, because if I am not mistaken only of these subscriptions, income is made in the same amount of nearly 1 billion kuna and it is clear that one full independence or better expression of the same is guaranteed. Once again, Croatian radio television has problems. I think she's the best TV ever. What the last presidential elections have shown, it is probably one of the few media outlets that has not discriminated against the presidential candidates, and it should be fair and acknowledged. On the other hand, we can see that the constitution of the council or the better said election of Mrs. Tomic-Rogić is late, I said before and why, that someone could choose the director of Croatian Radio-Television in peace. On the other hand, Mr. Drinker, as we've heard from Mr. Stazic if I'm not mistaken, is from the opposition quota. As independent as he may have been, he may have been saying enough that he became HDZ's quota minister at the castle. So much for that famous council, so much for someone's independence. And by my judgment, speaking of this council, it would be far better if everything returned to those solutions that existed in this country by 2003 so that this council would also appoint a future Croatian Parliament. In my opinion, that would be better and someone's independence should be told to someone else, not me, I'm too much in this House that I don't know how it works. I'm reading among other things that some severances, let's just say, re-deliveries on HRT reach the amount of... That's what I'm saying. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Let them get it. But imagine one of us getting a 360 or 400,000 kuna severance. They would have cut off his head, rightly. But let them have it, I don't care. We are clearly talking about independence about these choices. However, we know all of this, it is all a matter of agreement here in parliament, in Parliament and as it has been so far for the election of the Constitutional Court judges, so it will be the next day and when we set up councils or independent experts to run public companies. Finally, one sub-level was led by just as non-partisan people, not to mention their names. So what now? Clearly, Mr. Drinker needs to be relieved. He acts as Minister of Economy but also the election of the Croatian Radio and Television Council should be completed as soon as possible. Finally, I would dare say that in only one period, Croatian radio television was really independent, in those 2000-2003 and before and after that everything that only independent did not. But no matter what, I said it was my favorite TV. I used to commend them for participating in the last election. I want to believe that it will be in the future but what we all know Croatian Radio Television is power, the one who runs Croatian Radio Television is one of the most powerful people in this country. And that is why all of us in this Assembly, unlike perhaps the Croatian public, know very well, and that is why all of these challenges that have arisen at Mr Stazic's discussion. Where a problem has arisen now, which I would dare say is that this kind of leadership of this session compromises the Parliament itself. This kind of leadership of this session is just creating the impression that the choice is wrong and to manipulate Croatian radio television is to confirm whether we are as a society of democratic, democratic power, a democratic environment or everything we subdue to our own party, private and similar interests. It is certainly not good, it is certainly not promising and of such practice higher than the independence of Croatian media and democracy in this country as soon as possible should be given up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47446	So, all the time you talked about everything you just didn't have to resolve it once you mentioned this member, and I'm warning you again that there is no debate here about any new members or powers or the importance of the director of Croatian broadcasting. On the proposal of Mr. Pupovac, we commented that this should really be discussed in general on television, but this is not for this agenda point. So, if you, who is running the session, was the session a procedural business error, perhaps? If so, you have the right to request that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system be made known. Do not talk about how this one is, it is my duty and whoever sits here to conduct the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not in accordance with any cheerleading and any interests of this or that. I try to run a session like that. Prove to me that I didn't. Please be nice, I invite everyone else to discuss this matter to come down to this item of the agenda. When there's an appointment debate and anything else, we'll talk about it. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47447	So, all the time you talked about everything you just didn't have to resolve it once you mentioned this member, and I'm warning you again that there is no debate here about any new members or powers or the importance of the director of Croatian broadcasting. On the proposal of Mr. Pupovac, we commented that this should really be discussed in general on television, but this is not for this agenda point. So, if you, who is running the session, was the session a procedural business error, perhaps? If so, you have the right to request that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system be made known. Do not talk about how this one is, it is my duty and whoever sits here to conduct the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not in accordance with any cheerleading and any interests of this or that. I try to run a session like that. Prove to me that I didn't. Please be nice, I invite everyone else to discuss this matter to come down to this item of the agenda. When there's an appointment debate and anything else, we'll talk about it. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47448	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47449	Your claim is incorrect, Mr. Caine, that the way in which this session is conducted is suspected that there is something wrong with the election of the 11th member of the Programme Council. The way in which this session is conducted confirms that the election of the 11th Programme Council member is wrong, he confirms that the law is not respected because the President of the Parliament does not allow it to be spoken of because this subject is unpleasant and confirms that the way this session is conducted shows that the President of the Parliament has a completely different relationship with the SDP Club representative or with a representative of the coalition partner club who also speaks outside the subject as well as I do, but does not take away his word because it simply does not dare.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47450	Mr. Stazic, if you think you're going to cause another fight here, you're wrong. I know you left your nerves at home, and you think you're gonna be harassing us here all day. You won't. In fact, I didn't have the same criteria for you and, let's say, Mr. Djakic because I gave you a few minutes to speak out of the question, I warned you two or three times, but with the goal of returning to the topic. However, you insisted on it with intent, etc. As for Mr. Djakic, you objecting that I did not have the same criteria, I did not. I only warned him once to come back on the subject, and I warned you three times, so so much should Mr. Djakic complain, not you. You abused everything you could and couldn't. Let's move on. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47451	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's what I want to correct Mr. Cain's incorrect quote that says: just running this session... The Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is incorrect because the president of the Croatian Parliament uses the institutes, only institutes prescribed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47452	Thank you very much. I hope that is the majority of the opinion of the representatives, that the session is conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We have now on behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47453	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So here I believe I'm going to be able to stick to today's topic, so this agenda point, very clear and very short on the exact agenda. On 12 October 2007, Mr Đuro Popiac was appointed a member of the HRT Programme Council. Since Mr Popijac was appointed Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 19 November 2009 he could no longer act as a member of the HRT Programme Council and, in accordance with Article 18 paragraph 10, Mr Popijac applied for his resolution as a member of the HRT Programme Council. The Committee on Information, Information and Media discussed the request and proposed this decision to the Croatian Parliament, which we are discussing here today. A very simple and brief decision, and as I have already noted, Article 18. The Croatian Radio Television Act in paragraph 10 made it clear that members of the Croatian Radio and Television Council could not be state officials. Therefore, we representatives of the HDZ Club believe that this decision is in accordance with the law and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47454	Thank you very much, Madam Representative. There's a single application coming up and Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47455	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A lot has already been said here so that I would not like to repeat myself much, but as it is known that the Law on Croatian Radio Television that members of the Programme Council cannot be state officials. Thus, Master Đuro Popijac, who acted as president of the Programme Council, as counterpart Stazic said in his introduction, was appointed to the office of economy minister on November 19th 2009. The fact is that Popijac was a fellow member of the parliamentary minority who proposed him to this Programme Council of Croatian Radio and that he was not close to any party, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia apparently showed that he was bringing professional people into his ranks, not taking care whether they were in any party or not, means extra-party people, so Djuru Popijac also appointed minister in the government. Normally, at this point, he ceases his duties in the Council of Croatian Radio Television and Minister Đuro Popiac has actually submitted himself to the Committee for Information, Information and Media a request for his resolution of membership in the Council, which is in accordance with the Law of Croatian Radio-Television. Since it was in fact all in line with the Croatian Radio-Television Act as regards the request for the resignation of Mr Popijac, I do not think there are any obstacles to the Croatian Parliament's acceptance and completion of this agenda, because we can only repeat ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47456	Thank you very much. Madam representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47457	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's what counterpart Lukačić and counterpart Kunst said was that the Committee on Information, Information and Media discussed this on its committee, that Mr. Popioč submitted a request in accordance with the law to resolve it, and I will only mention that the task of the HRT Programme Council is to represent and protect the public by conducting surveillance, by improving radio and television programmes. So, the members of the Council, and 11 of them cannot be, and according to the Law on HRT, among other things, the state official, and in this case by appointment as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, became Mr Popijac. And equally, there can't be people who do jobs that could lead to a conflict of interest. So it's all done in accordance with the law, the law we're referring to. And I will just remind myself that after the 2003 parliamentary elections, the government led by the HDZ has shown a clear political continuity regarding the protection of HRT's work against political interference, and that is what it does today. And I just wish we could start to distinguish some kind of creative passion from addiction that's getting clearer and more clearly in this House, and that's about simply creating a picture of everything being done, and in this case, according to the law, it's bad. And I'm just wondering where does all this call us? So, in this case, everything was in accordance with the law. There's no reason for this House to make a decision, and it's the same way that it's turning away from the subject. I can see that some people have been unhappy about it, and in that case we just know that people are, because there are only people who can be unhappy. But when I listen to some of my colleagues, I get the impression that their accidents are too, so for the whole bus, so let's just give a little more discussion about what's on the agenda, that this doesn't turn out to be a meeting without the agenda because there really was no reason for controversy here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47458	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47459	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I will also repeat briefly what we have all heard in the debate so far. Master Đuro Popijac was appointed on 12 October 2007, the Croatian Parliament named him as a member of the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio and Television. In 2009 he was elected president of the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio and Television on 23 June, as Mr. Zdenko Ljevak, the chairman of the Board of the Electronic Media Agency, went on a new post. For the famous reasons of November 19th, when the Master Popiac was appointed a member of the Croatian Government, he immediately submitted a request to get rid of him from this function in accordance with the Law on Croatian Radio-Television. We also see that all this time the Law on Croatian Radio Television on the selection and work of the members of the Programme Council has worked and I see no reason why this debate today on the resolution of the Programme Council of the Croatian Television by Master Djura Popijac on his own request is taking up this much of the time and be the emotions that are not needed in the case of a technical decision that I propose and support to make and unanimously vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47460	Thank you. We have one correction and one replica. First correction, Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47461	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Bilić Vardic who said she didn't see the reason for this debate. One of the reasons you can see is in your paper. It is a public requirement to suspend the political blockade of the HRT Programme Council. That's one reason. I only think that the HDZ may be taxing for this opposition member of the Programme Council because it's preparing to be an opposition soon, so maybe it'll be one of your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47462	It's an opinion that HDZ is tactile. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Right? You've expressed your opinion that HDZ is taxing. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47463	You tell colleagues Bilić Vardić that you see no reason for this debate to last this long and to take the tones he takes. You consider this a technical solution? You would, by one technical solution, go over the fact that 180 cultural workers in this country warn that in this Parliament, and even to you, you are in violation of the laws, you are destroying parliamentaryism, that you are behind the profession forever, and when the profession offers you an honest man, then you will not choose him. That's not a technical question. That's the essential question. It's a question of how you run this country. HDZ President and Prime Minister Mrs Bilic Vardic calls every day for the respect of the law, for the need to comply with the law. So now I call on her to make you and the rest of the HDZ Club the authority of the party's president to obey the law, to prove that she cares about these laws in respect of which they are called every day. It's not a technical question. And don't put the crisis you've caused in Parliament, and on TV, because the director has not been elected to bring it down to technical matters. You also show that you do not care about this society, or about television, but that you do not care about Parliament, or the way you do your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47464	Please, it's in vain to warn you, Mr. Track, so we'll take that thing as a natural disaster. We'll take you as an accident and please don't answer these questions, because it's not the agenda point. This is about resolving members, not what they should be talking about. I'm not you. I'm you. ... Oh, my God, Mr. Trainer, as you can see, no matter how many of you you're supposed to be, God's man. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, because it is a natural disaster, no matter how I have to be here, I don't know what kind. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Man, stop talking about a agenda item that's not on the agenda. And that's why you're a natural disaster. Come on, that's enough! Mrs. Bilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47465	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will repeat my colleague Stazić that today's point of resolution of a member of the Croatian Radio Television Programme is a technical decision and it is your right to think what you want. Secondly, do not threaten in this Croatian Parliament or to me, more because you need to be a gentleman. Do not threaten the President of the Croatian Parliament and do not invite us to obey the law. Mr. Stazic, it is true that you said that Croatian Prime Minister and Croatian Democratic Community President Mrs. Jadranka Kosor calls every day for compliance with the law of the Republic of Croatia. So as will I, Mr. Stazic, president of the Committee on Information, Media and Information, will invite you to respect Article 18. The law on Croatian television, paragraph 6, which states if the representatives' clubs do not agree with the proposal of all candidates, the committee will determine the remaining number of candidates, taking into account the equal representation of candidates proposed by the assembly majority clubs, i.e. the parliamentary minority. Smart enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47466	So, the problem is only in respect of the law, about nothing else, and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two more speakers for this agenda point, so maybe it's best if we finish it anyway. Well, here's Mrs. Representative and Vice President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47467	Thank you very much. I am also a member of the Committee on Information, which is a competent parliamentary body and in which this debate has been launched about what is by law and what is not. But I won't talk about it today, I will really talk about the agenda point and Mr. Djura Poppie's resolution. In fact, when the opposition proposed Mr. Djuru Popiè to be a member of the HRT Council, we took care of the legal conditions set in relation to the appointment of an individual member of the council, we took care of... and the past work as is said or characterized by Djuru Popijac in his work so far and proposed him as a man we held to know how to protect the public interest of Croatian broadcasters, but also in this council consisting of different people, different interest groups, different profiles, but who all have a common task, that they will be able to function in the right way and that they will be able to make their contribution to this council really doing their job, to contribute to strengthening public television, promoting public interest, but also to the functioning of public television through the Council's mission to appoint key people, i.e. to appoint key people who run Croatian broadcasters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It turned out that we were right, because colleagues in the council also chose a fellow priest to be president of the council, and he did, as president of that council, show the very qualities they needed, not just to a council member, but to a council president. He led the council successfully during the period he led it. And then what happened? The Croatian Association of Employers and the Croatian Government, in an effort to get Croatia out of the crisis, proposes Djuru Popijac to go to the Croatian government and to contribute to the work of the Croatian Government with his experience and his characteristics. But something strange is happening. This successful man, whom God is true, has replaced this government from the position of director of FINA, in his own time accusing him hard for manipulations and abuses that have never been proven, nor were they founded, does not use the power and value of Đura Poppie. We read in the newspaper that he must not speak publicly at meetings of the Croatian government because he is in dissent and in conflict with the Minister of Finance. And we learn that the Croatian Employers' Association, whose director was recently preparing some kind of protest against him, is reportedly not acting the way he acted when he was an employer. Not to list further, his role in the government obviously comes into question, his efficiency and his commitment comes in this way to question, if he is to follow by what the messages are... Not in the unsigned one, but... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] messages coming from the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now I'm actually wondering, is the decision to resolve Djura Poppie as a member of the Program Council the right to make decisions? Perhaps it would be better for us to relieve him of the minister's duties, because apparently there is nothing he can do about it as an employer or an employer's representative. It might be better for us to return him back to the Programme Council, so that he, with his authority and his reconciliation, contributes to unblocking an unacceptable situation that results from the non-functioning or blockade within the HRT Council itself, and in this way to get to the right director, to get to the right functions, to no longer bring and threaten the existence, and in this case the economic, financial sustainability of HRT, an extremely important state institution, public institutions, but for which this Assembly is responsible, not the Government but this Assembly. The institutions in which there are 3,000 employees and all units are dissatisfied, all dissatisfied with this solution. You are probably all aware of this, from cameramen, porters, officials, journalists, editors, everyone is dissatisfied with the state of the HRT and instead of us trying, to find a consensus, to unblock this one state in which one small group of stakeholders obviously does not accept the conversation and arguments, and perhaps it would be better if we did not resolve Mr. Popioč than to relieve him of the great functions in the government, to bring him back to the council and to at least do a good job there for future democratic development of the Republic. Looking at everything that's going on, how it's, how it's camped some, or buried in place, that won't give in, and it's actually blocking much, much more important things. It's not about us and it's not about our political interests, the SDP and the HDZ. Gentlemen, it is blocking and challenging the very existence of a major, public institution. Let's put this aside. I mean, if Djuro Poppie isn't answering in the government, as we can read lately, let him get back to the council nicely. He'll be able to run that council, so we'll see how it goes. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47468	Thank you. However, we have a agenda item signed by Committee President Nenad Stazic to resolve the member, he, not to stay. Because if you have any other opinion that he stays in the meantime, a new proposal should come in. Therefore, we are not here to discuss this proposal. And what can we do? We're discussing the agenda point. That's the thing. We have two corrections to the incorrect quote, that's Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47469	Well, here's Mr. President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations, and they both refer to the same question. The government does not use the glory of Đura Popijac and his role in the government is at stake. It may be that this would sooner be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not a correction of the incorrect allegations because Mrs Antunovic spoke of Mr Popioc's role in the government rather than Mr Đura Popiac's role in the Croatian Council and its resolution. It's not true any of the other findings that you support with newspaper inscriptions. His role is highly valorized and works as a minister quite solidly for his work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47470	Mr. Frano Matušić, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47471	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's an incorrect allegation, and I'd say a harsh untrue that Mr. Djuro Poppie is not allowed to speak in public at the government. It's a total fiction, a lie. What's more to say about it than to accuse the minister of not being able to speak in government. I mean, it's just such a harsh untruth that a simple man wonders if there's any point in listening to such a step? The second thing, fellow Members, is not Djuro Popioc chosen to be Minister of Employers. He wasn't elected Minister of Economy just to protect employers' interests. It covers a much wider area and many other groups that are linked to the economy and do not expect the Minister of Economy to protect only the interests of a group. As you said, he did not meet the expectations of employers. There is therefore no reason to comment in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47472	We still have Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47473	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I'll take very little time off from taking more than a break. At first, I'd just look back on one sentence that it's not good, you're a man of great life experience, but it's not good, and in my opinion, the President of the Parliament shouldn't give lessons to MPs, even when they provoke it. Because there still needs to be one dignity, one level, not getting used to MPs. Because in their debate, sometimes MPs can go into a little drama, in a way of interpretation, but the chairman, and especially the President of the Parliament, should not then shout "Come on,"
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47474	Don't lecture me, please! You're not in charge of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47475	I'm not in charge, but I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47476	You don't have to warn me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47477	Now I'm going to say two sentences only on this resolution. When we solve Minister Djuru Pops, some things are undeniable. So he's a minister and he can't be a member of the HRT Council anymore, but at the moment of resolution, some other facts are undeniable. Like, for example. that HTV is definitely in one collapse. And financially, what they're saying is how little income is missing, how many losses have been made this year. And on the other hand, in a program that speaks of the decline in the ratings of certain shows, the change of editors who simply did not respond to those needs that HTV and public television need. So, as we resolve one member of HTV, he's in collapse, and he's failing, or the council is failing to pick out a new HTV director today because there aren't enough members. And what are we doing in this situation? So, we have resolved, or we have resolved one member, but in doing so, not us but the ruling majority, HDZ, is making it impossible to choose a new member who has legitimately the right to propose opposition, and then the Parliament chooses him as the usual democratic procedure. So someone's responsible for having HTV in a situation like this that's responsible for someone not choosing the new HTV director we see today during this debate on the resolution that the contest failed, to go to a new competition. On the other hand, at the same time, it means until one contest fails, and we solve Djura Poppie, HTV is run by people who are simply and sometimes unrecognizable on television. So, they've been working there for a year in the media, and they've been given the opportunity to manage one big public house, a news house that should be of primary interest to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to our parliamentary representatives. And who is ladies and gentlemen essentially in the interest? Well, it's very simple to conclude. Who doesn't want a new member of the Programme Council elected today? It's the ruling majority and it's doing a political blockade on HTV. As we resolve Djuru Popijac, HDZ for the political blockade of HTV, or does not want to appoint a new director, does not want opportunities to appoint a new director. Probably dissatisfied that he doesn't have a candidate among the candidates for director of HTV. And that's what happens ladies and gentlemen today when we get Djura Popio off this job and absolutely at the moment of Đura Popijac's resolution, I support a public appeal from 14 associations of 180 public employees who have stood up against this kind of HTV blockade by HDZ solely because they don't have a candidate amongst the candidates for HTV directors, so it was necessary to block that election and let go of the new process so that a decent man who will then lead HTV on. Inadmissible behaviour, Parliament should not do this, parliament should protect the interest of Croatian citizens and through this interest Croatian citizens protect public TV HTV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47478	Mr. Representative, you've been arguing here that no proposal for a new member's appointment is accepted, not on the agenda, you understand? Do you understand that this proposal was submitted by Mr. Stazic, here, we are discussing him. May Mr. Stazic, on behalf of the Committee, suggest the appointment of that new member, we will discuss here, what you are talking about here all the time, and when I warn you that I should not be the one to be. You've been talking here all along outside the agenda. I'm telling you, did you see a new member being proposed here? You're not. Well, you can't talk about it, you can talk about the resolution of the existing one, and don't remind me and lecture me about it when I'm holding the agenda and I'm holding the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please, nice. What do you want to accomplish with that? Did I hurt anything in here? You can't answer me because you have nothing to answer, I tell you that, man of God. Here's a correction to the incorrect quote first Mrs. Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47479	More incorrect allegations were Mr. President, the first one, not wanting to be your lawyer but the President of the Parliament shouldn't be giving lessons, it was Mr. Maras' first quote. The President of the Parliament is obliged to monitor the work of the session and to remind the Rules of Procedure if we do not stick to the agenda. It's the first correction, we've been discussing it all day. You have further stated on several occasions the ruling majority do not want to choose the director of television, the ruling majority dissatisfied with not having their candidate, these are your flat-rate assessments, these are your insinuations, the ruling majority and HDZ with our partners have stuck to the law and we are strictly law-abiding, all your other wishes for some political promotion and winning points by some groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47480	Thank you. Correction Mr. Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47481	Despite the departure of Mr. Popijac, it is not true that television is in the collapse because of it, because of 11 members there are now 10, the selection of directors takes 8, but should only be said that this is not a collapse but a reflection of the application of the Law on Television whose author is a member of the SDP and which you, when accepted, have announced as revolutionary, democratic but above all similar to the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47482	Correction Mr. Vice President Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47483	Mr. President, it is not true that the ruling majority is against the election of a new member of the Council, because it is neither on the agenda nor on the agenda, and I don't know how you came to the structure that you brought here is that the ruling majority is against something that isn't even on the agenda. I'd ask you to stop yelling at everyone and agreeing to me when I was chairing, you were shouting. You're really giving everyone a lesson, that's inappropriate. I have to tell you, so it's simply not true because you missed the topic and could have been taken from you by the president, I thought I'd give you an injury to the Rules of Procedure to say that he should have taken your word because you didn't stick to the subject here, but you teach everyone a lesson neatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47484	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, there's no proposer here, there's no closing word. This will be decided in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when the conditions are met. And now I announce that we will have an extension of the session in 15 hours and 30 minutes with the agenda point Report on the deadline for completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the satellite balance of Croatian tourism and the tourism development strategy. So, 15 o'clock and 30 minutes. Thank you and nice to all of you. We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the members of the Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to resolve a member of the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio Television. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal for a decision was adopted by a majority of votes, 116 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 1 against in the text as proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47486	Our colleagues and colleagues continue with the afternoon work of today's session with item 3 of the agenda - Report on the deadline for completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the satellite balance of Croatian tourism and tourism development strategy The applicant of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article. 111. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament since 17 July 2009. We received the proposal by mail. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. We received a report from the board meeting on the benches at the session. The proposer's representative here is with us State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism, Mr Branko Grgic. Does he want to take the opening word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47487	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed parliamentary representatives. The current tourism development strategy includes the period from 2010, and the government's mandate envisions the adoption of the most important strategic documents, the depth analysis of the situation in the sector, the strategy and the main development plan and the tourism satellite balance. The tourism ministry already formed a working group in April 2008 and 14 sub-groups of operatives in charge of locating problems, finding solutions in parallel to our competition. Representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association, trade unions, the Chamber, all professional associations were represented, so the entire tourism sector. We have assessed and launched a negotiation process with the Institute of Tourism as an institution that is competent and which is teamed to carry out the task. However, the State Commission's decision to control the proceedings was annulled so that the 2008 funds were not spent. Meanwhile, together with the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, we have brought a strategy for the development of nautical tourism for the period 2009 to 2019. Meanwhile, 2009 is the year of the global economic crisis that has affected tourism. There has been a redistribution of priorities within the ministry as well as redistributions within the state budget. So our priority in 2009 was to promote Croatian tourism and increase the competitiveness of Croatian tourism compared to the development of strategic documents. Also in 2010 is the year when we expect an even harder year in terms of tourism. Also because of the reduction of the state budget, and because of redistribution, we gave priority to the promotion of Croatian tourism to make Croatian tourism as competitive as possible on the world tourism market. We are in the current phase of the call for a public tender for the development of strategies and the main plan for the development of Croatian tourism. As far as the satellite balance sheet is concerned, it was launched in 2006 and conceived as a phase, multi-annual, continuous project. Designed to give us an answer on the dependence of Croatian tourism on imports. The programme is held by the Croatian Institute of Tourism in collaboration with the Ministry of Tourism, the State Department of Statistics, the Ministry of Finance and the Economic Institute in Zagreb. We believe, the estimate is that in the first quarter of 2011, we will have a complete satellite balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47488	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. Comrade Roshin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47489	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. At the 28th session held on 3 February 2010, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the satellite balance of Croatian tourism and the tourism development strategy submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 14 January 2010. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction under Art. 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report in question as an interested working body. Introductory representatives stressed the importance of tourism as one of the drivers of the development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia and the importance of developing a new development strategy and other strategic documents since the existing strategy for the development of Croatian tourism covers the period until 2010. Namely, a brief overview of all activities related to the creation of a satellite tourism balance, the development of a deep analysis of the situation in the tourism and catering sector, as well as the strategy and main plan for the development of Croatian tourism. The discussion on the board stressed that the Republic of Croatia has attractive tourism potential and that tourism contributes significantly to the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia. It pointed out the importance of creating a framework for the development of quality tourism offer and competitiveness of the Croatian tourism market by planning and a higher amount of State budget funding for the Ministry of Tourism. It is estimated that full view of the situation in the sector is a prerequisite for the development of a new development strategy and responsible and efficient management of tourism potential. But a question has been raised to what extent strategic documents require the involvement of other entities, the implementation of public procurement procedures, and the extent to which only the Ministry of Tourism can be engaged and the data available in local and regional self-government units can be used. After the debate was held, the committee decided by a majority vote, 7 votes in favour, 4 votes against and with 1 vote abstention to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: a report on the completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the satellite balance of Croatian tourism and the tourism development strategy is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47490	Thank you very much to my colleague Roshin on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. On behalf of the Tourism Committee? Yeah. Here's a colleague of Brkaric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47491	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament at the 26th session held on 3 February 2010 discussed the report on the completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the satellite balance of Croatian tourism and the tourism development strategy submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 14 January 2010. The tourism committee discussed the report in question pursuant to Article 69. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Introductoryly, Mr Robert Pende, director at the Ministry of Tourism, said that the report on the deadline for completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the satellite balance of Croatian tourism and the tourism development strategy sent to the Croatian Parliament by the Government resulted in the request of the parent board on tourism and then informed the Committee individually of each of the mentioned documents. The latest Croatian Tourism Development Strategy covers the period until 2010 and it is necessary to approach the development of a new strategy, given the complexity of making and the negative impacts of the recession of global scales that have also affected tourism, there has been a redefining of the priorities of the state budget's resources to obtain strategic documents to the priority of promotional activities above all. It is not possible to define more precisely the deadlines for the completion of the new Tourism Development Strategy, whose realisation will primarily be linked to budgetary opportunities. As for the deep analysis of which the Ministry of Tourism has been checked by the Institute of Tourism, Mr Robert... the director at the Ministry of Tourism... a working group has been established for each of the defined 14 problem areas, and operational sub-groups in which work will be included alongside representatives of the state administration body and other state institutions, representatives of professional associations. The work on drawing up a deep analysis was planned in such a way as to prepare for each chapter a specific analysis at the end and a final document which, as such, would unite all realised areas and ultimately result in a proposal for activities and measures to be implemented to improve the competitiveness of the sector. However, because of the limited budgets, they also take into account the assessment of the extremely demanding tourist year 2010 again... for increased promotion and only the minimum funds are planned on the item intended to produce studies and projects in tourism,... this cannot be precisely defined by the deadline of completion of the depth analysis. At the European Commission's recommendation in 2006, the creation of an experimental satellite tourism balance that is uniquely expressed in 160 tourism countries began. The document of the experimental satellite tourism account of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 will be completed in the first quarter of 2010, while the final results of the production of satellite balances are planned for 2011. The Committee's discussion highlights the need for the recent completion of the mentioned documents, which represent the fundamental backbone of the future development of tourism, regardless of the lack of the necessary financial resources that should be provided for such important matters through budget rebalancing. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Tourism unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the deadline for completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the Croatian Tourism satellite balance and the Croatian Tourism Development Strategy. The Tourism Committee has pledged to speed up the completion of the National Strategic Plane Development Documents, a depth analysis of Croatian tourism, satellite balances and strategies as if the budget provided the necessary financial resources to complete them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47492	Thank you very much. We've heard from the Committee's rapporteur, we're moving on to a debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. In the name of the HDZ Club, distinguished colleague Gary Capelli, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47493	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have a report on the deadline for completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the satellite balance of Croatian tourism and tourism development strategies. Namely, the above-mentioned national strategic developmental documents and the low-form planning development documents are therefore a fundamental framework for effective development management and, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme provides for the adoption of the mentioned strategic documents. As we have heard, the Ministry of Tourism started in 2008 to prepare for a deep analysis of the situation in the tourism and catering sector, which should be the basis for the development of the strategy and the main plan for the development of Croatian tourism for both the medium and the long term. Working groups and operational sub-groups have been established in addition to the work of representatives of the body of state administration and other state institutions, Croatian employers' associations, trade unions and chambers, and representatives of professional associations, numerous projects such as Croatian product for Croatian tourism, experimental satellite tourism balances have been adopted. When we mention the tourism satellite balance, we can say that it was launched in 2006 at the recommendation of the European Commission, so to create such a satellite balance, it was one of the tasks in preparation for the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union as well as Eurostat's recommendations so that we could have international criteria for the impact of tourism so that, finally, when we compare ourselves with other countries, we can measure by those international standards if we can say so. The aim of the deep analysis of the situation in the tourism and catering sector is to analyse the state of tourism according to defined problem areas, including the comparison of Croatia's practice with the available data from our competitors and to better look at Croatia's market position on the international tourism market and identify obstacles that slow down or prevent its improvement. The results of the study should respond to the necessary economic policy measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to increase the competitiveness of the tourism economy. However, it is important to note that the period since mid-2008 and then in 2009 there was a period of threatening negative impact, a situation in the global world environment, both financially and economically, followed by a continuous analysis of the market, the situation in tourist broadcasting markets, which pointed to the need to undertake further promotional and other activities in preparation and the course of the 2009 tourism. In 2009, it was therefore necessary to take appropriate activities aimed at easing the impact of the recession on this sector, which we know itself very sensitive, resulting in redefining the priorities of the Ministry of Tourism, i.e. rerouting the available resources of the state budget, originally planned among other things and for obtaining the mentioned strategic documents. Prioritized primarily by promotional activities. From the perspective of the results achieved in the tourism year 2009, this approach proved to be correct because the tourism of the Republic of Croatia in 2009 had a positive result and all marketing activities proved very justified regardless of all the calculations of the success of the tourism year, we know in the light of the countries in the environment that these singles into marketing, the additional allocations did not lead to a very small amount of quality shifts and given the competition of our nearest countries and achieved great success in view of the situation which was in the tourism sector. In view of this, it has been estimated that 2010 will also be extremely demanding, hence the tourist year in the framework of limited budgetary resources. Key priorities for the current financial year have also been defined, with priority once again being given to enhanced promotion. Because, as I mentioned before, they did give a very large result in terms of repositioning in these times of crisis. And only the minimum funds are planned on the item for the project study in tourism. This does not justify and oblige us not to have to bring up the study as soon as possible and all of these important documents in terms of tourism, because we know that we are practically on the exhale of existing studies that still cover 2010 and that it would certainly be necessary to bring a long-term study of tourism development as soon as possible. And we can mention here that in the meantime it was designed to study nautical tourism from 2009 to 2019, it seems to me. We believe that, in spite of the marked needs of these strategic documents, it is important and timely to respond and to do whatever is necessary. The following, and logically, it is not possible at this time to define the deadlines for completion of the depth analysis, and the strategy and main plan for the development of Croatian tourism, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club will support this report. But in any case, this does not reduce the obligation to bring the necessary strategic documents as soon as possible as possible, because they will in some way commit to the development of tourism at local levels, both the county and local self-government units in cities and municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47494	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party party colleague, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47495	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs, MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. Croatia is a traditionally tourist-oriented country. The growth of tourism traffic in recent years confirms that Croatia is on its way to becoming an active economic development generator. In order to increase economic benefits in tourism, it is necessary to create, adopt and implement a tourism strategy aimed at sustainable development with a focus on those forms of tourism that will benefit all participants. Therefore, we at the Croatian Peasant Party club support all the efforts made by the Ministry of Tourism to access the development strategy, which, of course, requires adequate financial resources. We believe that in the state budget, the Ministry of Tourism should be more adequately represented and not just 2 proms as is the case now. In fact, tourism has proved to be a recession feather and the best part of the economy. And that with only two changes in the state budget, tourism provided about 18% of GDP, and that certainly wasn't easy. The Croatian tourism sector has survived, however, one of the world's most difficult years of tourism so far. It's still the most competitive part of our economy. As early as April 2008, the tourism ministry began preparing for a deep analysis of the tourism and catering sectors. A study of deep analysis should also be the basis for the development of the strategy and the main plan of Croatian tourism. The creation of this document was planned in two phases and it is evident from what the secretary of state mentioned, as well as a colleague from the HDZ Club, that he is late for the realization of the project and that the reasons are quite objective. But I have to say that here I congratulate the Ministry of Tourism for what it wrote, because sometimes we have documents coming in here where the state that shows up doesn't exactly correspond to what it really looks like on the ground. And here it is evident that it is late and that there are reasons that are primarily conditioned by the fact that the first signs of the general economic crisis in the world occurred in 2008 and that there have been market struggles in all segments of the economy. And that's why, of course, money was supposed to be directed to advertising, and in a way I'd say hunting every guest. And it put it in another plan to draw up strategic documents that are also important to us. I must say that the tourism ministry responded immediately to the first occurrences of the crisis and made great efforts to prepare the tourism year 2009. And by the end of 2008, a budget rebalance was also made, and an additional 10.3 million kuna was provided for the promotion. And the main Office of the Croatian Tourist Community in agreement with the ministry has secured an additional 7 million kuna. It has also provided significantly more funding for promotional activities this year as a priority compared to other programmes that were not necessary. In 2008, despite the beginnings of the crisis, Croatian tourism was the most successful and registered 1% increase in the number of arrivals and 2% in the number of overnight stays. In preparation for the demanding year 2009, the Ministry of Tourism established a Committee for the Harmonisation of Public and Private Sector Action for Tourism 2009 with the task of preparing a quality and effective promotion. Of course, with an emphasis on important broadcasting markets. I must certainly mention the promotional activities of the joint advertising for which more than 80 million kuna are foreseen. In the framework of the government's package of proturecesian measures, the action plan of Croatian tourism was adopted in 2009 and 2010, with defined measures and implementing agents. The measures focus on reducing expenditure in the tourism sector at country and local level, on facilitating the procedures that foreign tourists are exposed to when they arrive and stay in our country, and are also aimed at domestic tourists. The employment of the tourism ministry in 2009 resulted in a slight decline in the number of arrivals and number of overnight stays. For 2010, the ministry provided 15.7m euros for promotional activities aimed at preserving competition on the international market. According to UNWTO's 2008 and 2009 barometer data, 2008 ended up in the world with everything plus 2%, and Europe was practically zero, while Mediterranean had slightly better results plus 0.6%. In 2009, the data from the barometer had only completed for the last 11 months with a minus 4.3%, and forecasts were between minus 2% to zero. For Europe in 2009 it ended with even a minus 5.6%. The forecasts were maximum to minus 3%. The European Mediterranean has a slightly smaller decline of minus 4.7% of us interesting European countries can list data on the number of tourist arrivals for the first 11 months Spain minus 8.7%, Turkey plus 1.6%, Croatia minus 0.8%. For the first ten months Portugal minus 1.6%, for the first nine months France minus 7.8% and for the first eight months Greece minus 20%. This year it continues to work parallel to taking all the activities and measures necessary for an equal fight on the international tourist market, which this year will indeed be a struggle for every guest. What I find important to point out is this and it seems best to me that the black forecasts given by some of our tourist guru and bank analysts have proved to be false and have not come true to our happiness. The results I cited from these statistics, however, were won not first but therefore certainly second place in the Mediterranean right after Turkey, which on behalf of the HSS Club, I congratulate the minister, his associates and all the tourism workers. I also want to say that it is undeniable that the Adriatic as the cleanest in the Mediterranean is our great comparative advantage but we are glad that more and more efforts are being invested in the development of continental and of course in the development of rural tourism as it has often been highlighted have these other countries and seas and suns but we have proved to be the best in all of our region and I think we should really be proud of it. Of course, investments except for the development of Adriatic tourism and therefore investments in the development of continental and rural tourism are quite justified if we look at the way of food, so the way where food is produced and where food is processed we see that this is the direction from Zagreb to Petrinja on one side, towards Varazdin on the other side and via Vrbovac, Križevci, Koprivnica, Bjelovar, Daruvar, Djakova, Osijek, Vinkovac, Vukovar to Ilok on the third side. This results if someone wants to deal more seriously with the analysis that Croatia can feed 20 million people and we need to use this Croatian peasant product to sell in tourism and connect the green and blue fields. If we look at our neo-industry structure, we see that it goes from Karlovac to Duga Resa, Sisak, Petrinja, Kutina, Novina, Nova Gradiška, Požega, Slavonski Brod to Županje, which is our advantage. We have Croatian historical roads as panoramic tourist corridors, we have a rich cultural heritage at the level of the entire state, we have a baroque cross. Croatia can therefore be a country of good food, as well as a creative region, and we at the HSS Club are behind this and we will support the report on the completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the satellite balance sheet of Croatian tourism and the tourism development strategy as well as the activities that the Ministry of Tourism is carrying out in order to make this year's success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47496	Thank you very much. Followed by a further debate on behalf of the IDS Club esteemed colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47497	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. You see, unlike this predecessor of mine, I think this is a document that should have someone step down at the tourism ministry. Look, let's say the Ministry of Tourism has as much as 550 or I don't know how many 600 units of local administration and self-government can easily access data for this satellite balance. I don't know how many 550, maybe 600 tourist communities. Why aren't you using them? You have thousands of tourist companies, so you can use them to get some data. I don't know 150 people at the Ministry. I am asking myself what you are doing and here it is said in this report that the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme for the current term of office as well as the government's programme for the period from 2010 to 2012 is intended to adopt the mentioned strategic documents and for which it is necessary to secure funds in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Well, we're already paying you, so why don't you make those papers? Clearly, later you see who challenged your particular competitions, how much it cost. In the end, you came to the Strategy for the Development of Nautical Tourism for the period 2009 to 2019, and what is interesting just to mention that 18% less arrivals were recorded in nautical tourism, which was the most well-deserved domestic boatmen who last year were 59% less clearly telling what opportunities citizens in the Republic of Croatia are living on. In total, there were 56.3 million overnight stays of which 10.3% achieved domestic and 89.7% of foreign tourists. The biggest nights were made by the Germans, so the Slovenians, Italians, Austrians, Czechs etc. The total number of arrivals in the Primorje-Gorski County remained the same as in 2008 and growth was recorded by Lika-Senj County 6% and Istria only 1%. Zadar County on arrivals was lower by 5%, etc. In one word, you can say disaster. No one seems to think anything serious in that ministry is working. Last year we argued that we were the leaders of tourism in the Mediterranean, that at the very least we were the stars of Danica Mediterranean, European or not I know which tourism, a miracle that the Bible does not know that at the end of 2009 we would find out or at the beginning of this year, however, from the Croatian National Bank Report that the income of Croatian tourism was 1 billion euros less than in 2008 or 15%. If a billion euros is smaller then that means that according to VAT last year we made 220 million euros less than somewhere around a billion, don't take my word for it, 600 million kunas in the state budget. In one word, if this information of the Croatian National Bank is correct, then we have passed, I don't know, like the sale of cars in Croatia and now we're playing that star Danica and so on. True, Croatian tourism can also be said about the following, that in the last 20 years 10 new hotels with more than 100 rooms or more than 200 beds have not been built on the entire Adriatic coast and we have from Savudrija below. .../ The intruder can't be heard. Beds, well, bed beds, anyway, it's important that we sleep and do something else on them. And we have thousands of miles of shore and a thousand hundred islands and rocks. We don't have a single golf course. Of course that golf law is ridiculous, it's funny, it needs to be revised, but on the other hand I read one piece of information and God forbid Mr. Chichak from HAC is right when he says the law was written to make 40 billion euros. I say, in such a situation as Croatia, God forbid it does, but unfortunately it won't, because it would mean that someone would have to earn that 40 billion, invest 20 billion euros in these properties, hire a good part of the Croatian operation. And we watch last night television, one Industrial Construction goes bankrupt, 20 billion would have to pay VAT to the country of cca 5 billion euros, would have paid 40 billion real estate tax 5%, on contributions etc. So based on that, it would be at least 5.6.7 billion euros. God forbid it's like that, but I know it's not gonna happen, but just the other way around, it's gonna be sooner if we don't have that money. Arresting absolutely yes, but only from the arrests of gentlemen not to live, there is something to be done, among other things, and in tourism to do. I also dare to say that Croatia will not avoid the IMF, which means perhaps the devaluation of the kuna one day, less wages unfortunately for us, less pensions, etc. Foreign debt is 60 billion dollars or 43 billion euros. Croatia remains fortunate to have that credit rating DB3D, but I'm asking myself a question as far as we're going to have it. And now I'm asking myself who can save us in the year ahead of us, and I'm saying it could be a tourist season, and what is Croatian tourism like 2010. So, I said, in the last 20 years on the Croatian Adriatic, for Istria I know, only three new hotels were built, let go of the apartments, not built 10 hotels. In 20 years I don't know, we almost ruined everything. Our fathers, mothers in 40 years from the '50s. By the '90s, they set up the economic base of this country, the industrial base of this country, the touristic, electrified state, they built some hospitals, what do I know that we haven't, and what have we been doing since the '90s here? Okay, we had a war, we lost between the other 6, 7 tourist seasons, but no matter what I claim, in 2010, only tourism can save us. Why? Because it's that direct foreign exchange inflow to the Republic of Croatia. So I'm going to say once again, arrest in this country absolutely yes, but only the arrest doesn't live, it needs to be done and created because our thieves won't have anything to steal from anymore. We didn't bring the military back, we didn't put them in service, and I've been reading the minister lately whether someone in fast food restaurants can or can't serve pizza and stuff like that. Let's let the people work nice, we almost ruined last summer because of that unfortunate Act of No Work on Sundays and then that's Croatian tourism. tycoons, pifs, banks don't pay for tourist land. I'm not going to take some of the nadal prices, it's one of the laws we're about to discuss and their downfall, but why say one of us or someone else doesn't, for example. One camp of 100 acres in blue lagoon or green lagoon so we can use that camp not 20 but one year for nothing. What is the Croatian analysis of Croatian tourism? We're 10 years old, for example. We can't sell our hotels. Here, for example. hotels, I now have this one title in front of me, Medena, Podgora, Živogosce, Blue Cave, etc. who have total liabilities over 427 million kunas we can't sell for 1 kuna. We can't. No one will. So what kind of tourism are we talking about? Our military resorts are devastated, Adriatic.net is likely to return to bankruptcy, former tourism minister and active tourism consultant, and she has thrown herself into consulting jobs, so she points out that we are constantly swearing to the necessity of an extension of the season, and she is actually shortening from year to year, so it does not improve even the financial results of already burdened hotels. Sunny Hvar, what can I say, here's another title. Orku broke the film, filed a lawsuit against Croatia, we will likely end up hanging from the Sun Hvar on international arbitration, and how we are already doing business losing these disputes most likely to lose that dispute. We pay from the other side of the expensive consultant. I said 150 at the Ministry or I don't know how many people. We have 550 of these tourist communities, we have 500, 600 municipalities, which cities, which county. In these tourist communities a brother works for his brother thousands of people, in municipalities etc. A thousand more people, and then we just don't have to paint. We have the greatest administration, gentlemen, in the world of population. Today I was just pulling out data, in Croatia it's over 8%, in one Germany 5.5%, in Austria about 3%. What are these people doing? Therefore, much needs to be revised, by the judiciary, by tourism and everything there, even if they ask Berlusconi to help us solve the judiciary. Here's a joke. Here would be some depth analysis of Croatian tourism. We lead the country, we lead the people into a fissure from which the people will find their way out of that pit, the holes, the holsters again. And what does it do? It's been 20 years since the '90s. It wasn't all the war. I used to say okay, we had 7, 8 lost seasons, it was '91, '92, '93, '94, '95, come on '96. NATO's attack on SR Yugoslavia was lost in '99. A year. But since 2000, that nine, ten seasons have passed when something could have been done. In this period, someone has become very rich in this country, and others, unfortunately, live in this country. The most devastationed so as not to forget this tourist company in Istria is Briani National Park. That's where I think you should come to see it, so to compare it, I don't know how to compare it to the Wildlifes, I don't know some other kind of subject. It just can't be like that. Anything you'd like to do in this country on the other hand because of politics we won't do anything. It's all doomed to failure. The investor's gone, and in two years, I'm afraid we'll sell ourselves even cheaper than today. And that was some deep analysis of Croatian tourism. Maybe in one of the Kempins, I don't know in Portorož, or at the Red Summit near Savudria, there's money laundering. I don't know, but at least something was done. And if we want to do something in this Croatian tourism, then we will have to set up the kind of relationships they ruled until the 1990s when one Stifanic or doesn't know who in Poreč etc. He did what he did to one Porec. Clearly, I don't think there's any socialism back there, some self-government. But in some form, some relationships when something could be done today need to be compared or identified with those periods. Now, if the revision of the conversion takes place, and it should start what will happen after this with Croatian tourism and so on. There's a lot of questions. Unfortunately, these answers cannot give us this Horvat consulting Zagreb d.o.o. as it is already called, rather than these questions should be answered by those who run municipalities, cities, counties, or our ministries. And to finish as I started, in this country we have gentlemen 550 or 600 units of local administration and self-government, we have 550 brothers to the brother of the tourist communities. The ministry works 150 or I don't know how many people or 200. The season is on the threshold and there is really something to do to save all of us from tourism in the year ahead. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47498	Thank you very much. We've heard a lot of things. And now there's a series of corrections to the quote. First came the honorary colleague of Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47499	Dear Vice President, I think Mr. Cain's exposure can be completely incorrectly almost declared because there are so many incorrect allegations that it would probably take us two days to correct it. But for starters, I'm just going to say that the success of the tourist season should no longer be repeated for the hundredth time, and Mrs. Petir said it very well in the data, and that's quite an answer as far as that goes. And from the number of employees in the Ministry of Tourism, from alleged unbuilt hotels from Dubrovnik to Umag, so in Istria it was recently built the Kempinski and golf courses released, etc. By citing the false as in the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47500	Thank you. Let's move on, colleague Cain. Dear colleague Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain made a series of incorrect allegations, wrong data. Reading the papers, thinking that everything he wrote there was really true. In his disastrous complaints, he misranked Croatian tourism compared to countries in the environment. Comrade Cain, we are second in the Mediterranean by the number of tourist arrivals, right behind Turkey. It's a success, it's very good, I'd say it's even great. So it's not as catastrophic as you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47502	Thank you. Well, where there's smoke and fire, I guess, it's just a matter of showing. But let's move on. A colleague of Neda Klaric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47503	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am to correct the three incorrect allegations of Mr. Caine who says we've ruined everything. We didn't ruin anything. Furthermore, it is not true that we have lost only six or seven tourist seasons, because you Mr. Cain know very well, and especially in your area of Istria that they were full of eight years exiles and refugees, and how long it took us to rebuild all these objects where people lived and where they imitated life from the hearth from which they were exiled. And the third is an incorrect quote from the military we didn't put into operation. I'll tell you just an example of the city of Sibenik where we are two huge areas where they were for a special purpose, so the military that one is placed in the function of the entrepreneurial incubator, and the other is very well known by our secretary of state, the great mega marinas, the area of Kulina which will dare to tell the larger marinas in the area of the Mediterranean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47504	Thank you. Another respected colleague, Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47505	Thank you. Well, colleague Cain, you were talking about a disaster when it comes to this tourist season. There's no disaster here. We don't seem to have read the same material or as if we don't all have some statistics. In fact, all statistics say that in the Mediterranean we are one of the countries that has the smallest decline in the tourist season in the past year. And so, instead of giving credit to the people in the ministry because there was no such fall as was expected. So sometimes we have to admit that we're doing something right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47506	Thank you. I've seen a report here of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47507	Correction, i.e. breach of Rules of Procedure, provision of Article 209 because a colleague was correcting God under... corrections of the incorrect indication by indicating eclatively incorrect data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the Institute of Tourism, which said that we are a country that is lagging behind, so all the countries of Cyprus, Spain has made 18% progress, and we are only 7%. So all the countries in the region and beyond have passed us. And you're showing here as if the country, as if Croatia had made the most progress in this period.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47508	Comrade Antičević, your colleague has not responded to your debate. Comrade Antičević, you have not said anything and in what way it was related to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47509	This is not the first time a colleague of Anticevic has broken the Rules of Procedure. I was speaking and correcting the allegations that he was referring to because he said the situation of the season was catastrophic, and you take it as your right and you always violate the Rules of Procedure. The president noticed that. Unfortunately, the sanctions on that left are not helping you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47510	Thank you. Let's move on to the correction of the quote, dear colleague Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I join my colleagues and colleagues for correcting these allegations, and I would, in fact, be special to my ear one if we had ruined everything in the last 20 years. It's absolutely incorrect with multiple aspects. So in a country where pensions regularly come, the health system works. My colleagues said in tourism, so these moments that are defusing you. At the end of the diagnosis is yours it's all clear, everything's black and then arrest everything. And then I can't help remembering, dear God, that you're a colleague of the case who became president of the state as much as... in prisons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the other thing, you should just sing songs like those of you that are good in the woods and mountains.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47512	Let's correct the allegations, please, a little bit of seriousness. And the final application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, there were a lot of incorrect allegations. First, I'll correct the incorrect allegations, and no new hotels on the coast have been made. A colleague, a new colleague was created in Dubrovnik and in the vicinity of Dubrovnik, the new gardens of the sun, the new hotel is completely in... A new hotel on Baba's Hook in the Vala "Lacrom" that was recently opened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, and those who are restored are equally invested in them as if they were new, because they needed to be completely leveled with the ground all and made a brand-new hotel. And as for what we inherited, or what you said we had ruined in the last 20 years. In the 1990s, we inherited a ruined economy that exhaled, which completely exhaled. And I am interested in the reaction of your tourist employees in Istria, new words about the disasters in tourism, because it is a branch that really generates positive things and generates and gains and everything else that Croatia needs today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47514	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47515	Can you secure a little order?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47516	I will, I will.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47517	I see you've been irritated after lunch by your coalition colleagues. Maybe a glass of wine, a glass of wine seems obvious. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few sentences about this report, which is to kill a report that admits that de facto nothing has been done in terms of assembly, depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the satellite balance of Croatian tourism, which is said to be made by 2012, and the development strategy of Croatian tourism. We have now heard a variety of information about whether Croatian tourism worked well this year or not. My sincere opinion that the result is bad, that it is neither near what the minister announced last year nor near what the minister had announced during the year. We're going to have a result here at the end of the year in a 15 percent drop in income. It's a job, coming from tourism. It's about a billion and 200m euros less revenue than it was in the year before. At the beginning of the year we talked about it being 2 to 3%, Minister Byce announced it, there's public data, and now it's seen that the result is five times worse than it was announced. So there's no talking about those euphoric announcements in the 7th month that the season is great, there's no talking about when Prime Minister New Kosor and Minister Bajs at Brač said we did a good job in tourism, absolutely not. We brought people. The fact is that the decline in arrivals is much smaller in Croatia than in some other countries, but can we attribute it to good work in Croatian tourism or perhaps because of what we are geographically best positioned by our competitors? Some 3% less tourists came to us in 2008, or about one and a half percent less overnight stays were achieved. It's when we competed with world trends, it was 4% less tourists in the world. So we're not as good as he wants to show up. There are regions where the tourist was more than in 2008. Here, Africa has achieved 5% more tourist arrivals than in the previous year. There are countries in our region that have achieved more tourist arrivals than it was in 2008. For example, Serbia has achieved 1% more arrivals. Montenegro has achieved 1% more. Turkey has achieved 2% more arrivals. There are countries that can be combined, since they are geographically in our environment, but that have not achieved a tourist decline in this year, that is, in the past year. But what's fundamental is a billion and 200 million less income. Translated means about 3% of GDP. So in the Croatian decline last year tourism took part with 50%, 50% of the GDP decline in last year in the decline of the tourism industry, i.e. in the decline of tourism revenues. So now, a colleague Petir just said it was 18.19% of total GDP through tourism, and the decline in GDP in the past year was 50% due to poorer tourism consumption, i.e. the decline in tourism revenues. So if we stayed at the level of decline in tourism 6%, probably the drop in GDP wouldn't be that big. And that's about the fact that tourism didn't work out well. My opinion and the opinion of the SDP Representatives Club that tourism is no longer done in a way to advertise, and I think it's an alibi policy. We have a year by year, I would say PR announcements, manifestations, signing public contracts where, with, I don't know, here this year, 30 million euros means 200 million kuna, and with agencies, it's about 17 million euros or 100 million kuna, trying to show that we're doing something. Well, it's not the point of calling, it's not the point, and it's not the point of income just giving in advertising. The offer needs to be devised. And here, the most important part of this is the fact that in Croatia, the average tourist spends 30% less than in competitive countries. So they come to Croatia, spend 30% less money than they spend in Italy, Spain, Portugal, etc. If this consumption were identical, Croatia would have about 2 billion euros in revenue this year. It's almost 5% of GDP. So our decline last year if we had developed tourism would be about 1 – 1.5% of GDP, not 6.5% of how much it will be. Again, the information that says that tourism is not doing well. In the end with the Ministry of Tourism, the data that I have said is clearly talking about not achieving results that are satisfactory, but not even tourism workers are satisfied, the hotelers are not satisfied. There are no concrete strategies, no concrete analyses and no concrete indicators which should be done further. I'm saying this for one other thing. In 2010, world trends are expected to recover, i.e. 4% growth. Croatia must not miss the chance to raise its revenues from tourism on this wave, i.e. to achieve revenue growth on that wave and thus to mitigate the trends and economic recession in Croatia. Our chance is tourism next year so that Croatia does not end up in negative GDP again. If there is no significant growth in income, and I think we are going back to 2008 revenues, there will be nothing of it. A few sentences about this strategy, this report. The SDP advocates' club will be for the report because it is real. It shows what I said at the beginning, that nothing was done. And that's why we're giving concrete support to the true report. We do not support the Ministry of Tourism and the work that is being done in tourism, but in this report where they have honestly admitted that they have done nothing, we cannot say that something has been done when nothing has been done, on these elements covered here. I'm just going to tell you, please, some, this is amazing to me that this report is coming to the Assembly, where certain sentences are said to be: "The teams have been formed, we have held meetings", but in particular then it is being apologized in part of the public procurement process, i.e. the commission has annulled public procurement procedures and this is why we couldn't do a deep analysis of Croatian tourism. So whose fault is that? Why has the procedure been annulled? Well, probably because of the one who spent it, for the ministry. And that's why we don't have a deep analysis of Croatian tourism, not because it wasn't possible to do that. Someone didn't do a good job at the ministry. The proceedings were annulled and the contractors could not be hired to do what had to be done. This is where the Institute of Tourism is mentioned. On the other hand, it is said that the recession, that the means of advertising should be invested, and that is why we do not have the same opportunity in 2010. I think, gentlemen, we have in Croatia several tourism strategies, Croatian tourism, from the "Horvat consulting" someone mentioned it, even a few more afterwards. From this, heads could be gathered in one place, a quality document could be made. But now, after nearly 3 years of, excuse me, 2.5 years since the minister came to his post, we have no clear way of where Croatian tourism is going. So how long does it take? Should he be given another mandate to show such a document and to answer the question of what will we do in Croatian tourism? There hasn't been anything done in 2.5 years, and there's a reason why we have 15% less income, not somewhere else. Absolutely the Ministry can't have a passing grade with us. Finally, here is an action, now trying to present itself through the media as something is still being done, so here is the project "Croatian Product for Croatian Tourism". That's a little bit and not enough. Such projects should be more and illogical, and let's just say that the Ministry of Tourism does not have an initiative. That some regions that have developed more themselves based on their initiatives, based on their tourist communities, such as Istria. That the whole of Istria has revenues from tourism as the rest of Croatia. Is that possible? Well, it can't depend on whether someone in a county, a region is more capable or less capable. There's got to be some system that's gonna push that story away. Especially because Croatia expects the most significant income from tourism. This can't be left in a slow manner, it has to be done systematically and I agree with my colleague, Petir, it's illogical if you expect tourism revenue of 20% or 25% of GDP to give 0,020 budgets. Finally, another thing that has to be mentioned here, we are absolutely dissatisfied with how the Tourist Board of Croatia works. 300 million kuna, what's it going to be? Ask God, it might be better to leave this money for hotelers, local tourist workers, etc., who would then design programs and eventually have a greater effect. Indeed, 300 million kunas are not small, and this could be used more meaningfully than is now being used. After all, here is the document we will support for honesty, but we will definitely be forwarding the interpretation in the Croatian Parliament about Croatian tourism because it has not been done for 2.5 years. The Croatian Parliament should draw conclusions that we are not further ruining this significant income that Croatia can make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47518	We've got a couple of plates up again. First of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47519	I won't quote the Rules of Procedure because it doesn't say anything in the Rules of Procedure. When it was written our Rules of Procedure, phones were not current, but I would ask you to warn the Secretary of State and the other Secretary of State when they come to us not to make phone calls while distinguished colleagues discuss the subject they represent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47520	Okay. Not according to the Rules of Procedure, but it's a matter of behavior. We have an application for correction of the quote of Honorable colleague Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47521	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Maras commented on this report as if he had read it by driving with his eyes tied. Namely, he said the smallest drop in the arrival of tourists could not be attributed to the good work of the tourism ministry but to the geographical position. Ma colleague Maras Italy and Greece and Portugal and France and all of them warm the same sun, but the data says otherwise. And they say the first 11 months. Number of tourist arrivals in Spain -8.7%. The first 10 months. Portugal - 1.6%, first nine months. France - 7.8%. The first eight months. Greece -20%. I don't agree with you... Please be polite, I don't agree with you in the evaluations you've given that investment and advertising is a failure, because fellow Maras has proved to be a good message sent by the tourism ministry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That is what the results say, "When the heart says yes, Croatia says."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47522	Thank you. The second amendment was applied to the esteemed colleague, Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47523	Your Honor, Vice President. I would correct the wrong allegation about investing in marketing if there were no reasons why the number of arrivals in Croatia increased. Well, the World Tourism Organization has just analyzed and said that Croatia has just achieved good results, i.e. The number of arrivals of tourists has increased as a result of further investment in marketing. Second. They were said precisely because we do not have a plan to develop tourism, analysis etc. that this is one of the bigger reasons why we had a decline in guest arrivals in Croatia. So no other country has a plan, and you all claim to have a plan. Because they've had a far larger drop in the number of tourists, so they don't have any analysis or anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47524	Thank you. Furthermore, the correction of the alleged esteemed colleague Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47525	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The colleague incorrectly stated that the budget deficit actually has 50% of the tourism economy involved. It just has nothing to do with the truth and it's mixing pears and apples. You need to know exactly how to fill the budget and from which income, and you need to conclude what the revenues of the tourism economy are, etc. Therefore, it is simply incorrect. And secondly, it is completely inappropriate to compare the tourist traffic of a highly tourist country such as Croatia with the tourist traffic of a highly non-tourism country such as Serbia. When you are so interested in other than Serbian cinematography and Serbian tourism, it would be interesting to hear how much traffic is in figures.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47526	Dubravka Shuica rectification quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47527	Well, a colleague incorrectly said more than one thing that was already mentioned here than that marketing or promiscuation had not affected the good season. Which is completely incorrect. You're being denied the data. Then that the geographical position is not dominant for Croatia, which is also incorrect, not to explain. And this latest piece of information that my colleague Matusic rightly refers to the figures. You really didn't use the right methodology throughout the 15-minute exposure, you devoted 2 minutes to this document, and everything else to the analysis of this year's season. If you took a closer look at it then you would see that this depth analysis is going precisely by using the criteria and standards recommended by Eurostat and according to the World Tourism Organisation recommendation, which will have the same methodology and will not be able to get this kind of data discreet that you here express.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47528	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB club and distinguished counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47529	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's what we're listening to from both left and right about some statistical figures, statistics, and here's because statistics are the kind of science in which a half-full and half-empty glass has every meaning, the one that interprets it. And then we can fight like this by morning if tourism is successful, it's not successful, etc. What is honestly stated in this report is on this last page, which says that the sequence of everything exposed or listed at the moment is not possible to define the deadlines for completion of the depth analysis, as well as the strategy and main plan for the development of Croatian tourism, because it should also be realised in accordance with budgetary opportunities. So, what would you say in Dalmatia, "Wait till the grass grows," so there's no one who knows when and who knows where. Many difficult words have been said here in connection with our tourism, so given the region from which I come to Slavonia, I must say that not a single word is... sea wolves, and not one word about the advantages and opportunities of Croatia to untapped possibilities that are little thought about, and that is that all forms of continental tourism. Namely, speaking of the geographical position of Croatia, then it must be known that the 10th Pan-European Corridor passes through Croatia, and the north-South 5th corridor, which is the beginning in Kiev, Ukraine, 50 millionth country passing through Hungary, then through Croatia and coming through Bosnia and Herzegovina and reaches Ploč to the Adriatic Sea. So, about this some strategy, about this some plans, about the possibilities offered by continental tourism, which can take a lot more than some kind of adjective in statistics 5, 6 to a maximum of 10% of tourism revenues from this Adriatic tourism, and could be much, much more involved in this, no one here is saying anything. The names I met when I took this report were very interesting to me. Report on the deadline for completion of the depth analysis. Honestly, I haven't met the term depth analysis. I'd say it's a comprehensive parchment, if we're going to speak Croatian. And I am even more interested in the satellite balance which is directly written from the English term satellite that can be translated because the satellite is probably an escort or an escort of something or someone, then the accompanying balance of Croatian tourism, which is then compared to the balances of other countries in Europe. Even more with various expressions of those that we have already gotten used to a little, basic, roofing etc. We also have a new expression that says that a final or deposit document will eventually be drawn up. It's a really interesting word. But it's not about linguistics here, although it's very interesting this report. But more about Croatian tourism this year, listening to both the prime minister and Mr. Minister of Tourism, no matter how much I say representatives from the party to which it belongs, to say defending the successes may be "tourism" but it is clear what it is and what I expected, which was whispered at the end or the beginning of the 3rd, 4th month already, that the Croatian National Bank report will be relevant about the successes of tourism. We can take the silver medal in the Mediterranean. It's like taking or winning a silver medal at Mediterranean games, Turkey first and Croatia second. But there are world championships and the Olympics and much more important competitions. Unfortunately, this silver medal in the Mediterranean is so at least according to the report and according to the debates given here today, as we heard it resulted in the state budget being merged about $1.34 billion less, it's an irrefutable fact. Is that 15%, is that this much or so, that's that much. It's in kunas so much and it's clear that thank God that if it's less then it's missing. We can talk about that we expected much more, we can talk about that we expected a much bigger fall, so we could expect no tourists to come because of the recession, so it's funny to expect bad, project bad. Why don't we project better? Why don't we try to make this better, but it'll be bad, so if it's better then. It's the same as when I operate on a patient, so I announce to my relatives it won't go well, and when it goes well, I'm a hero. Here, that's what it looks like in our ministry. It's gonna be bad, so we made it this year, it's good, it's not bad. That's how I compare some of this stuff. And in the end, this was about the tourism ministry. I see there's an institute for tourism. I wouldn't be surprised if there were a few other agencies for tourism and some of the state agencies working. There's a hundred and 50 or how many employees in the ministry. We have 5 hundred tourist communities, cities, municipalities, counties, etc. We have their 300 million kuna coster over the year, and then here's the call for a tender for this deep analysis. So aren't there so many tourist workers who receive their salary, who are employed in the ministry that there's no one to write and to come up with a deep analysis or I'd say a comprehensive breakdown of our tourism, to come up with that. So what are they for? What are they doing? So, we're going to the competition, and then someone's going to file a complaint like she invested in how the Horvat's company wrote "Horvat" that "Johnson&Johnson". And here, the contest fell and we lost some money and that rest we spent for promotional purposes. And thank God that's because for promotional purposes there would obviously be nothing left if that contest hadn't failed. When someone here says, it seems to me Caine, about the military resorts here we are, soon we are, there have been talks here both about the Cape of Sharp and the fortress on the Cape of Ostr. I don't know if he's been detained there for a reason, Mr. Matošić and I already had a conversation once between the pleasant Slovenian people but there are such military abandoned, abandoned, broken, etc. across our coast, and there is also on the continent, and I think that these administrative obstacles, various procedures that are being introduced, should be significantly shortened in order to finally bring this purpose and get certain and capacity and to say attractive tourist content in order to improve this tourism that I am convinced that no one will deny, that each of us who has debated today for clubs and those who have appeared for the corrections of an incorrect allegation are quite sure that they sincerely want it to be, in that segment, that we are significantly better the entire Republic of Croatia without exception. Today, too, no one is talking about what was long ago and what we often have in mind but here is no longer mentioned in the debates. What the blue and green furrows say, what the continent can, so the continental Croatia mainly Slavonia and Branja, which can not help but help and through tourism achieve clear and profit and in a foreign sense there is no mention of it, the Dalmatian ham is bought from Bulgarian hams, out of half or imported from Bulgaria and Romania, etc. Unfortunately, no one cares about me saying this element, so this part of our continent's possibility of Slavonia and Baranja, especially in this culinary area and some other parts, is used in the function of tourism and in fact that the most cookies remain with us. Someone here said that the extra-board consumption of tourists in some Portugal, Spain and other countries is 30% higher than in the Republic of Croatia. Well, gentlemen of the tourism ministry, based on what I've said, I simply think that the guidelines of deep analysis or strategy or how it's said satellite if it's understood like that, we can also swim in the air the balance of tourism doesn't take much of a lot of thought not to tell the mind to see what can be done, what can be done by domestic means, home smartness to get far greater income from this branch, which is called tourism even though many economic analysts say that tourism is actually saying and it's not an economic branch, because income from it can be very surgical and messy, because it can schedule any year without any pre-calculated gauges of income. So you never know what it's gonna be like. But, well, today we're talking about tourism and I don't want to talk about some other branches of economy that might also be profitable, but today we're talking about tourism here. I'm in doubt, so I'm in doubt as Mr. Maras said they would accept this report because it's honest. If it's up to honesty, then the HDSSB will accept this report as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47530	Thank you. There are two applications for correction of the quote. Dear colleague Petyr, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Boro Grubisic incorrectly claimed that there is no word here today about the development of continental tourism, thinking about the discussions and what the tourism ministry is working on. That's not true. You weren't in the hall when I talked about both Slavonia and the food route and Croatia as a desirable destination that can be promoted with its traditional peasant products and about connecting the green and blue furrows that I'm talking about here. It is also not true when you realized that the Ministry of Tourism did not invest at all in continental tourism because the Ministry of Tourism introduced 14 new programmes to encourage the development of continental tourism and also the number of interested in that part of tourism doubled. I must also mention that tourist agencies have shown 23% greater interest in Croatia which confirms that they remain on our market and cannot agree with you that these are bad results.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47532	Thank you. Comrade Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's an incorrect allegation, and it's actually not good to accuse people who produce in this House, who actually have brands, such as Dalmatian prosciutto, etc., of actually originating in Romania, etc. That's not true and it's not true. I understand my intention that you want the same... Connect as well as possible what Comrade Mariana said, the blue and green scars of Croatia, so the continental part, and that is our intention both at heart and absolutely safe and the Ministry of Tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you don't need to speak incorrectly and accuse someone of actually falsifying. We have certain standards and those who produce are obliged to publish the origin, where these cattle come from, where these products are from, etc. Therefore, we should not be accused in this way. And as for the Cape of the Sharp Collar, it is already part of the tourist function, so Prevlaka is already part of it. There's still a problem with the regime, and... change in tourist function. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope there will be a very significant tourist resort in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47534	Thank you very much. And the last reported club, the HNS club. Dear colleague Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47535	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the club of the Croatian People's Party, I was assigned to read this report and the documents mentioned in it, to present it to the club and to propose conclusions regarding it. I have to tell you, colleagues and colleagues, I've never been to more trouble in these six years than I've read these three miserable pages. Mr. Secretary of State, I've never seen anything worse on these benches in six years. And I agree with Mr. Caine in just one sentence, which is why someone should be out of a job. You can turn it into jokes, you can replicate, you can correct the wrong allegations by laughing at each other, but this is sad. Tourism is the main economic branch in the Republic of Croatia. The main economic branch. Every 5 kuna of gross social product comes from tourism, and we make fun of a single report. Tragic and sad. This point, colleagues and colleagues, has two serious problems. First, it is a shame that the Republic of Croatia has no money, no time, no people to create basic documents for the development of its most important economic branch. I can't accept that. Secondly, we have a very serious problem related to the methodology of work. So it's not just about money, it's about a much wider problem. What about this report? What is the objective of this report? What is the purpose of this report? It is called, just to read this miracle, a report on the deadline for completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, completion of the Satellite balance and completion of the Tourism Development Strategy, so three significant documents. In order to conclude on the last page what, at this point, it is not possible to define the deadlines for completion of either document or document more precisely. Then this report or this item of the agenda was called a report on the inability to define deadlines for that, that, that, that. The 3rd page of the report discusses an attempt to prepare an opinion and an attempt to prepare a basis for the preparation of tendering for deep analysis. My colleagues and colleagues, this preparation of opinions and the basis for a public tender has been under way since 2008. That's terrible. Then we are talking about a failure, or an annulment of a direct settlement for a deep analysis. The promised and unrealised framework for the development of Croatian tourism is being discussed. The deadline was back in 2008. Score zero. In 2008, colleagues and colleagues cannot connect to recession. We can do '09, we can do this one, but we can't do '08. It's about the promised but not the realized development of the main tourism development plan. The deadline was last year. Then, as regards the Satellite balance, in 2006, an experimental TSA analysis was foreseen. In 2008, an experimental TSA was contracted. So far it's been processed in 2005, nothing more. Is this proposal, colleagues and colleagues, to assess through the debate the work of ministers, people in the ministry, working groups, operational sub-groups and to seek their resolution? If that's the basics, then let's talk about who has to go and who can stay. Should we today condemn the mentioned strategy for the development of nautical tourism that someone brought in last year, worth until '19. year, and which one was accepted without any framework strategy? So, we built a window or we bought a water heater, and we'll make the house later. I, as a somewhat serious man, cannot accept such a methodology of work. It's unacceptable for colleagues and colleagues. There is talk of a lack of budgetary opportunities as one of the culprits that did not produce these documents that I mentioned earlier. But there's no mention of a colleague or colleague who's in line, the size of the money the secretary of state is talking about? Is that a million kuna? Is that 17 million kuna? Is that 117 million kuna? I as a scientist work with three more doctors of science annually for my scientific research project I get from the state on average 70, 80,000 kuna. Okay. Is this about the means of this size then it is not a problem or is it about the means of order how many 10,000 scientists in Croatia get at the level of a year, which is 200 million. I'm asking you if it's more or less than 200 million to know what we're talking about. I wouldn't be longer because I don't think the report deserves it. But I come from a touristic area, and I have to say, I'm really sad to see something like this. I can't call this a diletarianism, disorganization, irresponsibleness, incompetence. My colleagues and colleagues, I know it's a masquerade period now, but this carnival report definitely doesn't belong to our benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47536	We're moving on to an individual debate now. First, an esteemed colleague named Mirela Holly checked in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47537	Thank you, Vice President. My debate will be on the trail of what other colleagues have said coming from the opposition. And at the very beginning of this debate, I would like to say that I cannot support this supposed report on the deadline of completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the satellite balance of Croatian tourism and the tourism development strategy because it is not even a report, we do not know what the purpose is and what the subject is in principle of this document. And when we discussed this on the Committee on Space Planning, the Ministry's representative told us that the document had been made at the request of the Tourism Committee. But I think the ministry could have made a little bit more effort and made some quality report. I will remind you that in mid-July 2008, Resolute Minister Bajs specifically announced that, in the autumn of that year, he was moving into the writing of the Croatian Tourism Strategy and that the tourism strategy will be based on a very complicated deep analysis of all the Croatian tourism that was initiated by the Ministry of Tourism in the spring of 2008. According to then, Minister Bajs said we should have read the strategy sometime in autumn 2009. I should like to say, today is February 2010, and we are discussing a document called "A report on the completion of the depth analysis of Croatia's tourism satellite balance of Croatian tourism and the Tourism Development Strategy" which means that not only do we not have a strategy that should have been completed in 2009, but we still do not have a famous depth analysis that should have served as a basis for the development of the strategy, and we do not have a satellite tourism balance. We don't even have a report on the deadline, because this embarrassing document that we're discussing today puts nowhere a deadline for making any of the three documents mentioned. This document is nothing but a shameful whine about lack of money and problems of tourist seasons. An alibi for an incompetent ministry is required in the lack of money and cancellation of public procurement that should have been selected by the makers of these documents. It seems that no one in the resolution ministry has come to mind so that they can access these documents themselves and write it themselves if nothing else, it at least strategy for tourism development. Unfortunately, this government has inaugurated the sad practice that the country's strategic documents from which a vision of the country's development, the political structures that have been given the trust of the citizens and citizens of Croatia to manage the country is written or the NGO as was the case with the proposal for a law on water or various companies, institutions as is the case with a deep analysis of tourism. Or some other organization and all that clearly for the fat money. But if thinking and designing a strategy of tourism is not the job of the Resoring Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is at all the work of the Ministry and Government. If they can do this more successfully to NGOs and companies, why do we even have a government and ministries? Of course, there is no claim that the ministry official also spoke to the Committee on Spatial Planning, that no strategy has ever produced a single ministry. Because I know of a few strategies that have been written and made in the ministries, and that's where I primarily think about the Ministry of Environmental Protection where I worked. Although it is a shame that in 2010, we still don't have a strategy that was pompously announced in autumn 2009, I'm afraid we have nothing to hope for even when we finally get a chance to read that strategy. According to the announcements by Minister Bajs in the summer of 2008, the strategy will mostly rely on large investments in the hotel industry, large investments in marinas, car camps, and private accommodation. Although much is wrong with continental tourism, which could reasonably be based on the development of not only agrarian or rural but also much more demanding and more environmentally-friendly ecological tourism, Ministerial plans for improving Croatian tourism are once again strange wonders based on the development of such a favorite mass seasonal and environmentally absolutely unacceptable tourism. If such a pompous announced strategy is based on projects in the style of "give as many tourists as possible, give as many yachts that throw their feces and waste into the Adriatic, give as many tourists in cars and camps as possible, give as many tourists in concrete-blocked apartments, then we are very ill-written. In the resolution ministry, little thought seems to be given to the so-called overall economic effects of tourism in the national economy and Croatian society, although they are very learned and pompously announcing a satellite tourism balance. Why? Because year by year, and today in the assembly, we hear about the success of tourism through the number of guests, nights and incomes, no one is talking about the costs of this same a la cro mass tourism. It is not thought that each of those 10 million tourists who rush mostly to the Adriatic in two summer months leave so-called. the ecological trail in our country and not only in terms of personal consumption of food, water, electricity, energy, which adversely affects the environment, controlled or uncontrollable waste and feces, but also secondary use of resources. It involves the arrival of a large number of people to a limited location that is often an area of nature, not a human environment, which dramatically increases the risk of the existence of such a natural location. Is it particularly important to mention that uncanny tourists are extremely common to cause millions of million-dollar fires. When it comes to the lack of standards of environmental protection in the field of waste and wastewater disposal and on land, but also at sea, because of the very rare marinas in Croatia that have waste water treatment systems, from eco-acceptable yachts, and which these mean years in terms of the estimates of Croatian Adriatic vessels were about 150 thousand, when we bear in mind how weak or no inspection control of the behaviour of yachts, but also all others, when we think about what effect on the eco system of our sea has on tonnes and tons of discarded garbage and fecals, poured out liters and liters of fuel, dropped oil gases in the air, poured tones and tons and discarded garbage, when we think about endangered or extinct plant and animal species, then we come up with very high figures, and for domestic numbers of income and no revenue in any way. But the Minister of Tourism, especially the one who comes from how the HSS likes to praise the most green Croatian parties, should not have the development of Croatian tourism and its reach measured by large numbers, nor in the situation of the so-called. positive statistics, even when it comes to negative statistics. Namely, since things are in Croatian tourism, but also in society in general, large positive numbers necessarily mean large, perhaps even larger negative numbers. In this sense, I hope that the minister will have enough patience and interest to address the problem of tourism and environmental protection, because so far he has not been able to do so, and in order to begin with, he could read the scientific article of the environmental aspect and tourism in Croatia, sociologist Kristina Golubic, in particular the chapter of tourism as a driver of natural and environmental conflicts. For all things previously said, they cannot support this shameful and completely pointless document that offends representatives and representatives of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47538	Further to the debate, a distinguished colleague named Jerko Roshin has applied. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47539	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there's no more colleagues, Caine, because he's the same, to answer some things, so I haven't been making any corrections, and now that he's gone, it's pointless because I'm talking here. However, I would like to say in any case that, here in this two-year experience of a parliamentary representative I have realized that the problem of many topics is just politicizing the topic, and that man is away from what is relevant about the subject that we are talking about, so within the professionality of the profession that is doing something. In the same way I have experienced this from my colleague Holly, it has practically turned out that tourism is causing damage, not any harm, everything that she has listed, which is actually happening in tourism, and really in tourism is happening and there are some negative things, but in that benefit analysis or what she would say to me when she draws a line under all the pluses is important what remains, if she stays plus then if she stays minus minus is, no matter what she carries one to herself. But politicizing debates never leads to anything important, so what we're saying is, we adopt, we don't adopt, then it turns out to be completely irrelevant to any debate about anything in the Parliament, it's just a stage that one of us can say something, that someone can hear us. I'm afraid I don't think I'm on TV right now so someone can see what I'm saying. But I'm still going to tell my court, which is that the result in tourism is far above expectations and everything that is put at his disposal so that he can work too hard. And if the exact information that my colleague Petyr said has no reason to state that she is doubtful because she is very pedantic about everything she does, then the data on only 2 has passed the budget, and 18% of the gross social product shows one such proportionality, so with minimal investment in one activity such a huge part as counterpart Maras said 20% is not irrelevant, but 20% almost budget, so one activity that absolutely deserves attention, but obviously is not given and such importance in the budget, not at all. So I think that finding today if we can get to it all together and complicatedly, at least it can show that one of the potentials we have at our disposal is not used in the best way, and if this report was pointless because it's only made sense that there is no deadline, then at least the value of this is that we say something about this tourism, we say the problems of tourism, let's see what lessons we can get out of it. Austria has no sea, and in tourism it makes an awful lot. So it's not just the sea and the sun, there's a lot to talk about that it's not just Istria, Dalmatia and South Dalmatia, etc., the Adriatic part, but that the mainland part of Croatia can also provide its budget to the state. But I can also tell you that in one Austrian winter resort, one of these spas that exist, that I do not now advertise them in which the Croatian football team was recently included, there are large tourist complexes for which the investor himself is a regional government, because the state has given money, helped to start building. So there are different relationships to get out of tourism. Someone mentioned here, I mean colleague Grubisic, but there he is, too, that since this activity is something more, something less. Tourism is known in the economy as a tertiary activity, and we know what tertiary activity means, that it is comprehensive, that it has a multiplier factor, the same as shipbuilding, that what is achieved in tourism reflects on all other economic activities of a country and that it is a market for exports, not only domestic ones. And in that context, we should look at it all together. The fact is that this report gave one answer that doesn't satisfy us that there's no deadline, that there's no term, that we can't get to that term, until that depth analysis could be done. Satellite analysis is permanent, it's a continuous process. We also know for the strategy that one segment of this strategy has been made, that it is the development of nautical tourism. How much is the question of lack of enough money to make it my personal opinion is that this money is missing so that it could be done. Is there any available and valuable capacity in the ministry, professional, scientific in order to be able to do so? I don't know. But it's not unusual for all the ministries, all the governments of the world, to use specialized institutes and seduce them to help them do it. How much could the ministry have done? It remains to be seen, but it would be interesting to find out how much the ministry can only do. And it would be important in any case to come up with a strategy as soon as possible using deep analysis and all satellite analysis. How interesting that can be, and how fruitful that can be, I will illustrate it on an example. One Faculty of Economics in Croatia has done an interesting study on macro-economy, 10 commands of God. As unusual as it may seem, but it's very, very important. Because each of God's commands has one particular implications for the economy in life, so we've dealt with orders that say, "You don't want your neighbor's wife." Believe it or not adultery, analysed as analysed there, contributes to the Croatian budget of 4.5 billion kuna. Is that what it means to stimulate it or not, but it's an interesting piece of information. A large part of this sum is located right in the area of tourism. I mean in the area of hotel service because some people take hotels so they can spend some time there or travel on some trips, etc. It's a very interesting study that's been seriously done. Which may cause a smile on your face, but it's a lot of things have been done. Therefore, all these satellite analyses which seem to be they can lead to relevant data from which they could learn. Of course, I'm not learning from this to increase adultery because it's not right on the moral side, it's not part of my worldview, my wife heard it, I hope, but it's interesting what's relevant for tourism, and we don't think it matters at all. So all these analyses are welcome, useful, and we can extract information from them. The fact is that tourism has achieved great results, it has achieved great results in Croatia's economy, but it is also a fact that tourism in the Croatian economy could participate with even more than it does if all potentials were used. I agree that a lot of hotels have been restored, and that the value of hotel renovation is often at the level of building a new hotel, and perhaps even in some cases the only thing is worth it is the location where the communals that have been previously paid and everything else should be re-worked. But it's also true that a lot of these hotels are so boring and are not finished yet. If I come back, just for example. Split then there are four hotels that are not in office yet, and before that they are. And hotel "Marian" and hotel "Split" and hotel "Belevue" and hotel "Central", but that some new hotels such as "Atrium", "Peristila", "Marmona" were created, so some other initiatives. Why aren't these restored? Because they've been in one mechanism for a very long time, the privatisation fund, or not enough engagement to put them into office. He could tell you a lot more about what all compliance with Croatia's legislation could contribute to the development of tourism as extremely important economic activities and activities that trigger and all others. In particular, with regard to the harmonisation of legislation in the domain of spatial regulation, environmental protection, i.e. spatial arrangements and urbanism, tourism and what is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. I think that would make it to a lot more capital for development. Not only to build that builders have something to do, but we need to make sure that in tourism that is otherwise low-accumulating activity, which when it works positively we are already satisfied, but let it work with 5% profit that means that every investment that happens somewhere happens for 20 years multiples so that it can come back. Now you see how significant that is, every 100 kuna that has been invested for 20 years, 100 kunas must be reversed in that same place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47540	Thanks a lot, buddy. We have one reported replica, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47541	Roshin, you said at the beginning of your presentation that according to the announcements, the tourist season is satisfactory, i.e. the results are good. On the contrary, the announcements were a 2 to 3% drop in income. Take the Internet, Google what Minister Bajs said a year and a half ago, that tourism revenues will drop 2% to 3%, that the number of arrivals will be 1% lower. The income from tourism is 15% lower this year. So five times as much as Minister Byce announced. So his announcements didn't come true, it would be great if they did. Unfortunately not. And when mathematics is obviously not a stronger side to some HDZ MPs, I just want to explain if the decline in income is a billion and 200 million euros, that's about 9 billion kuna. About 3% of GDP, which is the 50% drop we've experienced in the past year. So little that MPs who would like to deal with this area don't know the numbers that don't correct or correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47542	This little weird math, but we have a good answer on the line, colleague Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47543	Let me use my time as a replica, so don't talk. First of all, I hope you didn't think in math about me when you were talking, I had a 5 in math, so I know math. It's just a question of whether we know how to apply it. Your colleague Holly just said well, she mentioned all three aspects of how tourism is measured. So it's not enough just to say about the number of guests, it's not enough to say about the number of overnight stays, it's enough to say the total income. And also very important in this total income as much as the Croatian product participates, and as much as the foreign product participates in order for the results to be read. But you didn't even listen to me very well, so I have to tell you, even though I never have any complaints about your relationship with me about it. I wasn't talking about the results, I was talking about the discrepancy. How much do we give to tourism, and how many results do we get? I think we get a lot more results from tourism than we give tourism so tourism can do successfully. It's the same as in sports that we have cases where we have the world's top results from people we almost didn't have anything available for, and we have some other clubs or other sports in which we invest a lot of money, and we don't get a result. Probably in this first case, even in tourism, there is a dispensation that is an additional motive, not a material fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47544	The next debate is based on the application of counterpart Ivan Škaricic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47545	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The government of the Republic of Croatia's report noted that the strategy and the main plan for the development of Croatian tourism have nevertheless been seriously committed. It is also clear how important it is, and how simple it is. In the Ministry of Tourism, as well as how much I have seen rightly set up a plan of activities that would lead to the ultimate goals. And this is the development of the main development plan and the Croatian tourism strategy. However, these documents were not adopted. This was most affected by the cancellation of public procurement decisions for the production of deep analysis as a basis for the development of the overall strategy and the main development plan for Croatian tourism. And the clear recession that was created in the world and which we still agree on will still be somewhat sudden and it is of world scale and could not have had a more serious impact on it in Croatia. And in this situation, it was clear that the tourism ministry had to deal with this new challenge and it had to use all its human and financial potential. In this context it is much more understandable why these documents did not occur. However, I believe that there is a realistic plan to make these documents and that financial resources should be provided and necessary to make these documents as soon as possible. Because yet we will agree all tourism is our most significant export product. And whoever manages to find the formula regardless of which party it comes from or is extra-party how to extend the tourist season, how our big hotels on the Adriatic instead of working 120 days or working 180 days, should get the biggest state award in the Republic of Croatia. I think that's the real question. We have examples I will back up the fact that the renovated hotels are, say, at my place in Omis, two hotels are devastated, renovated, but they work 100 days. The Lion Hotel, which is in the La Meridian chain, is being sold these days because the owners who have invested cannot be economically covered because the hotel may be filled with 15% at this time. These are real challenges and this strategy in this regard, I hope it will also answer these questions. In this regard, I support the position of the Tourism Committee on the completion of the drafting of these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47546	Thanks, buddy. A colleague of Dubravka Shuica applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47547	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the real shame that the world economy situation at this point is delicate and that we are expected to be extremely demanding this tourist year. So priorities are budgetaryly focused on promotion and less on making this document. I tried to read this document a little bit. He may be a little bit different, I believe that today's debate would be different here the secretary of state mentioned in his initial presentation of 14 areas, 14 working groups, and he didn't list them. So I'll do my best to explain it for him. I see this task has gone seriously, and perhaps you're doing more seriously than this document is serious. That's exactly the kind of problem we're having today. The goal of this depth analysis is you said an assessment of the initial state of comparison with the competitive environment and a proposal for measures to improve. To achieve this, you have divided into 14 areas, so the first area of the legal framework where you want to determine the price of work, the situation with tourist land, the state of the Golf Act, also this package of the Law on Tourist Communities. And that's the area that this group would be dealing with. The 2nd group is a fiscal policy. Well, I'm sure you need to reconsider VAT in tourism, and you should also see what happens to profit tax, income tax. So that's what this task force is or is already dealing with. 3. area of parafiscal giving, as regards the monumental rent, refers to ZAMP, refers to the water fee and to the TV subscription. These are all questions that should be considered once more and see how this goes on. And is that a big burden? Is that a big give or isn't it? The 4th sub-group is also a monetary policy where it should be seen whether an adequate exchange rate policy is needed in cooperation with the Croatian National Bank. 5. Cup spatial planning and environmental protection. And in any case, I can say from personal experience, it is necessary to speed up the adoption of spatial plans, GUPs, and especially urban planning and small plans, detailed arrangements, because without it there is neither development nor investment in tourism. But here is a moment to mention to answer to Mr. Cain, that from 2005 to 2009 in Croatia it was built which reconstructed 125 hotels with 4 stars and 19 hotels with 5 stars, which is not exactly negligible data. However, it certainly is necessary to speed up the state related to the DPUs and UPUs because there is no development without it. The 6th group is a maritime good where all regulations and any possible discrepancies between county, state, city and municipal competences should be agreed. It's about concessions on the beach, maritime goods borders. 7th Cup are conditions, models for realising investments. We are talking about Greenfield, Brownfield Investments and there is a very important Law on Tourism Land that we will discuss believe this week and the Law on Investment Encouragement. These are the topics we were supposed to discuss here today, when we talk about this document. But just because it was missing in this basic document of yours, there may have been some discussion about another topic. The 8th is a sub-total privatisation and we definitely see that the Croatian government is working on it. It is necessary to speed up the processes and continue the privatisation of hotels and hotel facilities. In the 9th group there are incentives, where to consider export status, quality investments and investment in staff education. And on the 10th, there are joint staff and education. Surely we need to invest in lifelong learning, that we need to make a reform that we talked about this morning about professional education and improve the management chamber, because without it there is certainly no proper management of these tourist resources. The 11th group prevents the gray economy. It's something that's very important. Maybe we're not even aware of how much there is in the field. So here I'm talking primarily about undeclared nights and undeclared work. The 12th group should deal with infrastructure, means transport connection, we have seen how much highway has contributed to increasing traffic and certainly all other infrastructures in both the continental part and the coastal part will certainly contribute. The 13th group is a producer and processing industry. That's what we talk about when we talk about connecting green and blue Croatia with agriculture and other production plants. And the last is a competitive environment where swat analysis should come to the conclusion that Croatia is ahead of countries in the environment and in which way we can attract more guests. I believe that we have followed these 14 points and that we may have had them in this material in order to discuss it more safely today and better, perhaps a little less politicised and more considered, more professionally discuss this topic. What I'm about to say personally is what I say in this document doesn't like, which doesn't mean I won't support it because we're given not only for vote and adoption but taking in knowledge might be better you say it's not possible to define deadlines. At least it should be possible to define the deadlines aproximately. I understood the reasons for the budget deficits and the allocation of funds to the promotion, not this document. I understood the reasons why you had to cancel the contest and have again, etc. But it's not particularly relevant to us. As representatives for us, it is much more important to get and not just for us, but for the whole country of Croatia to get concrete analysis which will be the basis for this real strategy for the development of Croatian tourism. And what I mean is, even though I'm saying I'm not professional, but I'm thinking, for years, three, four, five years is too long to bring one strategy, and you've seen now that a world recession has not been announced, which has completely disrupted all over the course, and no strategy has covered it. As a result, I think that a strategy should be adopted as soon as possible because otherwise it loses its meaning and effect. So I think it's too long a period, it's an excellent idea, but the realization should be faster and we should fight for the budget funds to get to this goal as soon as possible. As far as the ministry is concerned, where counterpart Cain was also talking about the number of employees, it's not exactly true. 83 employees are in the ministry, three of which are officials. So to give the information that 150 is not the same is not true and so maybe this is an opportunity to mention it here too. In any case, I will support, or I will take note of this deep analysis and your plans, but take this as an incentive to accelerate and in some ways a little more systematic material from which we will be able to discuss and it would be easier for you to listen today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47548	Thank you very much. We have three reports of replicas. First of all, dear colleague Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47549	Thank you very much. Here I would, my colleague has quite nicely listed these 12, 14 points about Croatian tourism but I would like to mention a special point that is important and not mentioned here, and that is how to extend the season. We have been saying for 20 years that Croatian tourism should extend the tourist season, that it is short three months, four months, how to make it last longer. Here, now in this time or in the spring especially in Dalmatia by islands we have places where there is no open restaurant and these places have been able to get gold medals for the best tourist resort in Croatia and now they have not been opened any catering facilities. So I'd like to ask how you handled it in Dubrovnik, you've been mayor for a long time, and what are the results of the season, how did you manage and did you succeed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47550	The answer to the replica of my colleague Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47551	Well, here's my colleague Zubovic, I can tell you that Dubrovnik is really a bit specific about this. We have not three months but seven months of season, it lasts from April 1st to November 1. It's a specific Dubrovnik by all means, but not exactly geographically. And it was Dubrovnik who could deny today the thesis when it was said that the geographical position attracted tourists to Croatia. It's not a fact, it's content. The contents are very important, and that's primarily culture. And what we have to do is that's what we're going to talk about these days and what we're talking about amending the golf law. It is very important that the contents of the type of golf, the type of congress centre and the great cultural events that can attract guests. And we've been working on it but we're not too happy yet, the season should be 12 months old and this is our key goal not only in Dubrovnik but throughout Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47552	Thank you. Next, a colleague named Sobol signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47553	Thank you. So, I must say that I am already listening to a more carefully discussion of something called the Report on the deadline for completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the Satellite balance of Croatian tourism and the Tourism Development Strategy. And I've been thinking a few times about answering one line, I've used it now. A colleague of Shuica, who may still be a little twisted in some way, but she said that what we're discussing today is a package that we have in front of us at least is missing, and that's what I'm going to say. To us who may not be members of the Tourism Committee, and I find out that essentially this report was based on the conclusion of the Tourism Committee as you gave it to us to all the representatives and three pages in which we can only read that for some reason a depth analysis has not been completed, that the satellite balances are finished for 2005 if I am well and that the Tourism Development Strategy should be done. What are we talking about here today? We can possibly only talk about the responsibility of the Ministry of Tourism which, regardless of all the problems of financial nature, has not fulfilled within some deadlines. All the other things that have gone on here today necessarily have gone on as a debate are being discussed about the analysis of last year's tourist season. I don't think we had any kind of report here on the benches like that as Parliamentarians. It's about the development of rural tourism. Here, now we're hearing how Dubrovnik has extended the season for seven months. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna go back to what maybe we should all get a warning to discuss something that's not on the agenda. I've been listening very carefully to all these subpoints of yours that you've counted 14 of them, and I'm looking for them where they are, except for number 14, I don't know anything more than that. So it's a material that, Mr. Vice President, is absolutely insufficient and insufficient for any, any more serious debate, and here we have been discussing these three pieces of paper all afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47554	Thank you very much. We're arguing because that's what the board asked for, so he passed it on to us. I think it was the ones who were looking that should be shown whether they were satisfied, and they said they were, so they forwarded it to us. The reply to the replica will be given by a colleague of Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47555	So here's fellow Sobol, aware of the likely importance of tourism in the Croatian economy, we all felt the need to discuss regardless of the material. But you can also see that in this material I repeat that there are limited budgetary resources and that the reason why they have not completed the depth analysis is precisely because the funds are targeted at promotion since last year for 2009 the promotion proved to have had their effects, and so it seems for 2010. The main problem is that they do not have enough budget funding for this analysis. So, I don't think there is, it may be that it's not harmful that we've all reported for the debate, if we've talked a little bit, if we've exchanged opinions, what we think and what we'd like to see is Croatian tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47556	Thank you. And the last report for the replica, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47557	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shuica, you come from a tourist town and then it is really problematic when you praise a document like this, when you praise a ministry that has not taken any steps at all, except it has set out 100 million kunas for the Croatian tourism commercial. This ministry, after all, and the government, if we remember last year, also brought a ban on working on Sundays in tourist resorts, towns, when you were mayor while you were still in town, people came along and opened shops through souvenir shops so they could make some money. So, an absolute lack of hearing for tourist workers, for cities that live on tourism, and it's a little real, and I would say illogically that you provide support and advance encouragement based on this document that doesn't say anything on three pages, except that they've been in the ministry three times, that they've been cancelled two public procurement procedures, and that there's nothing in the end of these documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47558	Replication response, my colleague Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47559	Comrade Maras, you've just given support to this document, and I've critically looked back on this document and on the contrary, you've now debated Mrs. Sobol as if we weren't all in the same space. I took a critical look at it, but I have made proposals, of course, to speed up the work on this depth analysis, to speed up the work on adopting a strategy for the development of Croatian tourism, and in the future, we should somehow have the same attitudes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47560	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Nevenka Marinovic applied for the debate. My colleagues, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47561	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Report on the deadline for completion of the Dubrovnik analysis of Croatian tourism, the Satellite balance of Croatian tourism and the Tourism Development Strategy. I will begin my debate with the fact that we can manage development effectively, and so can tourism only on the basis of strategic-planned documents and at a national but also at a lower regional, local and sectoral level. The fact is also that the existing Croatian Tourism Development Strategy covers the period until 2010 and that we should already have a strategy for the development of Croatian tourism at the final stage today. Since the creation of a strategy according to this report is related to many of the activities of the previous, comprehensive analysis of the situation in the sector and the measurement of the effects of tourism by applying a recommended international methodology that enables comparison with the European Union and the world, etc. The satellite balance of tourism, but also on budgetary opportunities, better said inability, it is essentially late and this is said in the report as a reason for the delay in drawing up these important documents. With respect to the negative impacts of the recession of global scales, which of course did not bypass tourism, the tourism ministry, as the report shows, has shifted the funds to more priority, specifically promotional activities, and the production of these documents has slowed down. As for the deep analysis that should be the basis for the development of the Strategy and the main plan for the development of Croatian tourism entrusted by the Ministry of Tourism to the Institute of Tourism, it is therefore neither planned nor expected, means in the first or second phases, and the reasons are also given in the report. Furthermore, the report shows that, at the outset, only defined programming areas were also spoken of by a colleague of Shuica, 14 of them, that operational sub-groups were formed. Although I accept part of the reasoning by rerouting funds to promotion, in the first place, because they have produced results in last season, I believe that at least a general strategic framework could be developed for the development of the tourism sector. And as a good example, I will quote in the meantime a developed Strategy for the Development of Nautical Tourism of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009-2019 which is also mentioned in the report, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2008 and which was created in the co-operation of the two ministries, meaning the Ministry of Sea and the Ministry of Tourism. Since I come from an area where this segment of tourism makes a significant contribution to the overall financial effects of the total economy in particular of Zadar County, I will still remain briefly on this strategic document. Due to the natural potential and comparative advantages of Croatia compared to other countries in the Mediterranean, a particularly valuable and successful part of Croatian tourism is exactly nautical tourism. Despite the development achievements so far, you will agree, nautical tourism with quality in many elements of the offer has not reached the value of natural and historical heritage, as well as the spatial development possibilities, or Croatian nautical tourism has not yet taken advantage of all its development potentials. Therefore, on the basis of a study of the development of the nautical tourism of the Republic of Croatia, which gave an overview of the state of nautical tourism in Croatia, the Ministry of the Sea initiated the creation of a strategy for the development of nautical tourism of the Republic of Croatia which, in particular, was developed by an inter-resor working group established by the Ministry. And this strategy sets out the principles of long-term development of nautical tourism, which includes management of the nautical tourism system, conservation of nature and the environment, quality and competitiveness, economic valorisation and more. This strategy represents the strategic development document of the Republic of Croatia, which defines vision and mission, strategic objectives of further development of nautical tourism and in line with the principles of sustainable development and the Action Plan for the implementation of the strategy, in which measures, activities, holders and implementation deadlines have been developed, and since 2009-2019. The strategy for developing nautical tourism of the Republic of Croatia is a strategic document which therefore constitutes the starting point of all activities of long-term management of the sustainable development of nautical tourism in all aspects of sustainability and at all levels of development decisions. And because of its quality, it will very easily fit into the entire development strategy of Croatian tourism. But why did I talk so much about her? It can also be a model for making the other 14 segments and it can also be a methodology, but also a model. So when multiple ministries are involved, or sources of funding are multiple. With my debate here, I would like, by supporting this report as it is encouraged, that is to speed up the development of these important strategic documents for a segment that has a significant impact on the overall economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Although we do not know how much the report affects, the satellite balance should answer that very question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47562	Thank you very much, colleague. The debate continues, a distinguished colleague, Ingrid Anticevic, Marinovic, applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If the Rules of Procedure had been strictly applied, many would have been interrupted and their discussions would have been stopped in that sense because it would have been subdued under that provision of the Rules of Procedure if they hadn't talked about the subject. And is there anything you can say about this subject without hurting the Rules of Procedure? It's just not possible. It is not possible to discuss these two-and-a-half ballots without you hurting the Rules of Procedure, because then there is nothing to discuss, and it has to come up with the Rules of Procedure on the agenda and there is an open debate. Please, this name has almost two full, two full lines, two full lines. And when we got this about 20 days ago on the bench, I thought in the first wave, I had a good part of this split off because it's a deep analysis. The first thing you read, if you read anything, is a depth analysis, and I'm looking for it, I'm arguing with my colleague Zgrebec where my part of the depth analysis is. She says it's a deep analysis, so is mine. We've been getting different contents here but we haven't had this yet, because it has a name for depth analysis. It is not even a deep analysis of the justification for why something was not done, but such a superficial excuse from the hills, from the valley why what was to be done was not done. So this shows that there might be a depth analysis, and it was going to talk about it. But basically this is the ministry headed by Mr. Bise who is not here right now. Probably worth a little, then you wouldn't be the secretary of state sitting here, but he would come, he would walk in to whom you fellow Petyr congratulate. What are you congratulating him on? Like those Montenegrins when they congratulate themselves I congratulate you on your wounds, hero! There's nothing to worry about here. But this shows how the Croatian government works. You see here exactly by some stages that are speeds. And now it's revealed at what speed the former prime minister was working on, who just flew off in the fifth and disappeared. But it looks like this one, too, continues and reconstructed government works on the same principle. So, a lot of words, and a little bit of action. And the more they say about the higher speed, the more they're doing, the more they're doing, the more they're doing it, the more they're doing it, the more they're doing it, the proportionally they're doing it. So, just when you look at it a little bit, someone might think there's some kind of funny home video hidden behind this whole thing. However, things are too serious. Namely, it began to speak, which is why this depth analysis is needed. So when we see, so this whole first page is talking about it, and then the words of justification are going on why nothing's done. And the fact that one truly imagines and sees if it is, which is why our colleague Maras has forced him to talk about it, about this one mere honesty, or can't even lie anymore. All the adjuts have already been worn out. Namely, the document was supposed to be his first phase finished in 2008. That's exactly what this document says. Then nothing was done, but in 2009, it was seen that it could not be done in the ministry and that the only specialised institution was the Institute of Tourism, and then it was decided that it could be done by the Institute of Tourism. Then it was several months ago that such a study would seriously be done by the Institute of Tourism. Then again, time passed and concluded that these are some kind of intellectual services, perhaps great values that must pass the law, or public procurement, or competition. Then they came forward to the public competition. And look, the public tender went through, unfavorably finished, it failed because it could not be drawn up most likely, neither did I tender or was favored. So, two things could have been there either ignorance or consciously someone was comfortable. And after a statement of complaint from Horvat consulting Zagreb d.o.o. Here's the state commission cancels out. Now this serves not as a visual example of how bad it is done, but as an excuse for not doing a depth analysis or at least one part of it. Now there is still justification that a strategy for the development of nautical tourism has been adopted in the meantime, etc. and that the Ministry must and it was seen that it had to be followed by specific segments etc. And then neither ends nor ends. So, numerous, numerous excuses, but there's no question that this job will ever be completed like all jobs. And when some people start, we don't even know how much they're going to cost, or how long they're going to last. However, this topic certainly brings and opens up issues and some of the delusions and myths that exist in us in tourism. We're a long time ago when we've been destroying the conscious industry and now you can see that without production there's absolutely nothing that industry is still taboo here the topic that it's all covered by tourism. These are the greatest, greatest delusions. First, just at a time when there is still some industrial production, when investors, investors, investors, and those who would like to invest see that there is nothing they can do about it from paperwork and corruption, and then they move on to the double tail, looking for other countries. So, expectations exactly which are conscious, and something unconsciously support that tourism will save both the state and the state budget, that it will create wasteful jobs. We have seen that, unfortunately, both objective indicators show that such expectations were actually an account without innkeepers. It should also be said that, in tourism itself, these are facts, of course, many countries have protected themselves better as one French who has defined who can deal with tourism, under which conditions, under which cabins, to buy French goods, etc. But the most beneficial benefit from Croatian tourism is the foreigners themselves. We fight to get a stranger, as a better consumer, but most of it has foreigners. Furthermore, Croatia's tourism will now absorb our agricultural production. That's what you're talking about so conveniently, from topic to subject. The Green Transversal, the Blue Transverse, however, continues to import more and more foreign agricultural products, these hotels as foreign chains buy exactly that side of the goods, as they probably find domestically expensive. Therefore, our peasants and what little they produce, and what is certainly quality, cannot find this adequate placement. Then we also don't have elite tourism, which is also one myth, one delusion, and basically again to hunt in a blurry, and that's why that's exactly why the golf law came along as the primary national goal, because it's elite tourism where our people will be hired, I don't know what they're going to do, buy balls, women will be maids to our own land. Well, we haven't received the word of the Constitutional Court yet, we hear also the announcements, but the Prime Ministers that something will change, it may well be faster than the Constitutional Court itself, but in any case, golf courts have basically served as an alibi for certain persons, namely certain persons, to get their hands on certain, of course, most valuable land. And likewise, the Tourism Act, where we see this tourist land, is exactly the kind of hotels that have been in place for 20 years, almost now for almost 20 years, but 19 certainly without any compensation are using land owned by the state or owned by a unit of local self-government, or most often as in the territory of Zadar and Borik of that complex that has to be returned to their original owners, because it is not the purpose, so where they are surprised that when their hotel is located right in front of that land, and then there is the sea, they can't win and not yet be the primary concessionaries, that is how this property can still go to public competition. Of course, because we taught them all that. So here's why I can't accept this report. It is, though, really has this one quality, which is what wanted to be honest. That's something you should also appreciate in all that unhappiness. Because the most common and the worst, and there are worse reports that have all been misrepresented, so that's how the anti-corruption strategy that was giving false information started. Then you know that's not gonna happen. So from this one degree of honesty, maybe that's also to be appreciated, but this is really one embarrassing piece of paper. But this kind of paper is the government... paid $2 and a half, or a few million for two and a half pages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47564	Thank you. We have one replica registered, a distinguished colleague of Petyr's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47565	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'd like to replicate my colleague Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic at her presentation. I think, of course, when something is not good to say openly that it is not good or something good that should be openly commended. You referred to my debate, which I commended Minister Byce and his associates, just referred to the wrong segment. I didn't want to give you a correction to the wrong quote, but simply a replica to give you the opportunity to answer, because I don't suppose you may have heard my statement entirely. Namely, I congratulated Minister Bajs on the fact that, in principle, he and his associates, along with the entire tourism sector, denied all those who had black forecasts that the tourist season would fail and have proved to be, and this says statistics that we did not invent but were obtained by the methodology of the most relevant institutions, which is that Croatia is by the number of tourists arriving right behind Turkey and that it has taken a great place in the Mediterranean. When I talked about the depth analysis, I said it was necessary to provide financial resources, to carry out a deep analysis and to adopt a tourism development strategy, and that I was not satisfied with the financial allocations from the state budget for the tourism sector. That 2 has passed the state budget too little and that I am in favour, and the HSS club to make these singles bigger in the future, because tourism has proved to be the most successful branch of the economy and to contribute with 18% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, when it comes to connecting blue and green fields, there may be those who speak demagogical, but I truly believe that and I am fighting for it, I am working on the ground, not only here in the Croatian Assembly, and I really advocate that the Croatian peasant is provided with the market for his product, and I think that tourism can be a branch that will successfully connect this particular segment, so they sell agricultural Croatian peasant products to guests who come and also become an export product.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47566	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47567	Well certainly, colleagues you point out, and that is one of the main reasons that is certain that 2 has changed the separation for tourism, which we want, which we believe can compensate for many hardships, so what I just said and the reduction of industrial production that is weak anyway, reduced investment size. However, the fact is that income from tourism is much more modest than the usual perception that we can accomplish in times other than recession. Let's say an example of one of Spain. When did her tourism bloom? Then when she developed her industry, from car to many others. And it just needs to be understood. We can't look at it simply isolatedly, but within the framework of important branches, above all with industrial branches. But I'm going to refer to it right now, to the Institute for Tourism. So these rescue institutions that are going to do something because the ministry is obviously not capable, and these are specific likely and knowledge, and so that's the job of this deep analysis that they can't do. I can't assess it, I'm not an expert in this area, and they've probably decided it's the only thing that this specialized institution can do, it's the only specialised institution in the country of the tourism institute that's been dealing with this problem for years. And that's their data, so that's again based on Eurostat's data. And what they say. That Croatia increased by only 7% between 2002 and 2008, while it increased by 19% in the Mediterranean and our neighbouring countries, so both in Greece and Spain, in Portugal and Turkey and in Italy and in Cyprus. And that's something that, from year to year, we're less competitive. When we say that the number of overnight stays somewhere or the income from tourism in other countries is lower, but how much is theirs less than what? It's from a giant cake. Ours is small anyway, and then this part of the reduction is much bigger than that of those who have made much, much progress in this regard. But it wasn't just tourism that advanced them, it was industrial branches, first of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47568	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague Marin Brkaric also applied for the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47569	Here's Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'll briefly say something about the very report that's right here in front of us. Although this report on the deadline for completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, satellite balances and tourism development strategies, we are not all here together, we have achieved this deadline, and I will not say a special strategy for the development of Croatian tourism. I am saying this because it is a key, fundamental document which is not needed for our own sake, because of the Ministry of Tourism, but is being sought by all tourist workers because it is crucial if we want to remain the leader of tourism in the Mediterranean and if we want to further raise quality and competitiveness and our tourist product and if we want to increase revenues from tourism. We know that in 2008 they amounted to slightly more than 7 billion euros, that this year they will be smaller according to the CNB analysis, but I certainly think that if we are working on a Croatian tourism strategy for the next ten-year period that tourism revenues can be significantly increased. We can certainly increase in the context of the extension of the tourist season because although we are talking about the tourist year, the fact is that our tourist season is about 120 days on average. It is certainly worth talking about other selective forms of tourism as well as about negative phenomena in tourism, and as far as local self-government units are concerned, we can also say the regional self-governments that encourage through their spatial plans their further apartmentisation and destruction of space. Here, the basic intensity of this debate should have been focused precisely to speed up the process of making these key elements, especially the strategy for the development of Croatian tourism. And on the other hand, it means you set a deadline. I think that deadline can be determined, even if it is indicatively independent of what the Ministry of Tourism has said here that insufficient resources are in the state budget. In the national budget for 2010 the development strategy of Croatian tourism is marked with, or the funds are planned, i.e. now not only planned but also accepted by a million-and-a-half kuna. In the projection of the budget for the following year 2011, these funds amount to a million and 800. So that's 3 million and 300,000 kuna. The funds at the position of the study, projects and programmes in tourism amounting to millions and 760 thousand kuna were also planned. I mean, I would like to appeal and ask the Ministry of Tourism to really use this debate to speed up the process of making and deep analysis and the strategy of developing Croatian tourism. And on the other hand, to set deadlines, to make them known to the tourist workers for whom it is done. So it's a tourist economy. I think they can be determined at least within the deadlines because we know that neither strategy nor depth analysis can be made within a month, regardless of whether it was the Ministry of Tourism or the Institute or some outside house, since it will be necessary to publish a public competition. Here, I would like to advocate that all of these criticisms that have been made at the expense of this material are to encourage the ministry to work rapidly on these two documents that are extremely important for the development of Croatian tourism, which is a deep analysis, normal and satellite balance, and ultimately it is a strategy for the development of Croatian tourism. Because if we all don't know where we're going together, regardless of what we're going to say we don't have a strategy for economic development, etc., then we don't even know where we're going, or how to raise the quality of the tourist product, Croatian tourism. In order to raise its competitiveness, how to extend the tourist year to make it truly a tourist year and other forms, I would not speak since the item of the agenda is these 3 documents and the deadline of completion of these documents that is important, crucial for Croatian tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47570	Thanks a lot, buddy. And the final application for a hearing is the application of an esteemed colleague, Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47571	Dear Vice President, thank you very much. For a long time, of course, like some of my predecessors who have so qualified something called a sheet and a half of paper, not two, but a sheet and a half of paper that pretentiously has one big title, for a long time has not seen the light of day in this assembly something like this. And I think that, first of all, underestimating the parliamentary representatives in one primitive way that we have to read and read about it, although this paper and half of the paper doesn't deserve anything, but to simply say that something that we expected for all of us to be developed, that for all of us, the branch that Croatia is leading to development has grown so close to the heart that we will then and for which we have established the Ministry of Tourism seriously take it seriously enough that we are also taking this tourism seriously. The only thing worth paying attention to in this list and a half, Mr. Secretary of State, is the first sentence: "National strategic planning development documents, as well as the low-forming planning documents are a fundamental framework for effective development management." All of this beyond what you've listed as an alibi for why there's no depth analysis or there's going to be a saying that we don't know and we don't manage our own development. That I translate it briefly, when it comes to tourism, then it turns out that what we were saying until yesterday, that tourism is happening to us, that tourism is still happening to us because it's obvious that the Ministry of Tourism has neither the will nor the desire nor the money to manage development effectively, and that effective development management should, of course, have that strategy, there are 101 reasons why there is no such strategy, so I think these reasons are really funny. Because if this is how you wrote here that one of the reasons why there is no depth analysis based on it, then there is no strategic development, or no tourism development strategy, is that, in the meantime, some things happened in 2008 and also in 2009, that it was a period of the threatening negative impact of the global situation to say the crisis, so there was a need to undertake additional promotional and other activities in preparation and the course of the tourism year 2009. So I don't read any further. But then you say this, given that it is estimated, but now I don't know who could have assessed it when you're not qualified for it, we don't have deep analyses, we don't have institutes, that 2010 will also be an extremely demanding tourist year, and within the framework of the limited budget resources, there are key priorities for the current budget year, where the items are given priority for enhanced promotion. What did you want to tell us? Yes indeed if that is so, that you are only ready for promotion and nothing else, 2008, 2009, 2010 and God forbid that tourism happens to us in 2011 then we do not need the Ministry of Tourism. It's cheaper to take an agency that's going to be marketing and that's going to cover that little money, that marketingly then represents us somewhere more quality than the tourism ministry is now. You yourself said with this list and a half of paper that you're unnecessary as a ministry, that you only need marketing, because some other things happen. We don't have a strategy, we have nothing. But that's because you're doing extra promotional activities, then you need to have an agency, not a ministry. I think it's catastrophic to say in the end that the pompous title is depth analysis, the satellite balance of tra, la, la, la, but in the sequence that we don't know at this point, we can't more precisely define the deadlines when it's going to be, whether there's going to be a zero-point strategy. But unfortunately for you you see tourism happening, however much you deny it in this document. So then you have units of local self-government that have made their strategic tourism development plan. I don't know how complete he'll be in that future of yours if he ever sees the light of day, but they did. So this one was also made in cooperation with two ministries without science, without institute, without Horvat, without anything. A strategy to develop nautical tourism. I don't know how much she'll fit into that future strategy after a deep analysis that doesn't know when it will be and why it will be. Tourism is not happening, however, tourism is clearly being considered at these lower levels and without the Ministry of Tourism. Well, it would be good if most local self-government individuals had their own development strategy, then it would be good if the Ministry of Tourism were to end, to find a good promotional or some agency that would then promote tourism as a promotional promotion that it just didn't happen to us. One of the objectives of that document that we do not have, which you claim we will not, and that we do not know when we will have it, should be to analyse the state of Croatian tourism in defined programming areas, including the comparison of Croatian practice to the available data from our competing countries. The aim of such a document should be to end this result when we see together that it should respond to the necessary economic policy measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to increase the competitiveness of the tourism economy. It is obvious that since the document is missing, unfortunately there are no necessary economic policy measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is tragic because tourism is a vital branch that still holds us and carries us somewhere forward. But there is obviously no necessary measures as the Croatian Government writes here to increase the competitiveness of the tourism economy. And to show it on an example from my county. Liburnia Riviera hotels unresolved. Adriatic d.d. Crikvenica zero points, pending. Imperial d.d. Use zero points unsettled. No strategy, no decision and tell me what these people need to say now, and these are state-owned companies that we understand each other, what do we have to say? They should be the backbone of tourism development as planned by the county development of tourism backbones of tourism development. Immobilized because there is no economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to increase the competitiveness of the tourism economy. You listed this in these sheets and a half of paper which should not have been, should not have been the subject of ridicule, let alone serious debates in the Croatian Parliament. Because the fact that there is no document, that it will not be, that 2010 will also be complicated, so we will not be dealing with it but only for promotion. That probably in 2011, he intends to be the same, that we'll also be in the field of promotion. Question if we don't have a strategy you know where we can get to? Anywhere but where they'd like to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47572	Thank you very much. We've got one report of a rectification. Here you go, fellow Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Denon claimed that tourism was happening to us. First of all, it's not accurate information, and second of all, I think it's underestimating. It is underestimating to all those who really work hard in tourism, in hospitality, in hotelers, private renters, to people who work in the Ministry of Tourism, but also to professional institutions who certainly know a lot more about this problem that we are talking about today, which when it is necessary to take as sources of information such as the Institute of Tourism, and then when it does not suit us, they are accused and called out to why they would be doing the strategy. I'd like to make an argument as to why I find your statement completely incorrect. So you can't say that tourism is happening to us. Because if tourism were happening then tourism wouldn't be the best economic branch, wouldn't have so many designed programmes in tourism, wouldn't have had so much interest in tourism, and especially the agencies that showed it this year with 23% more than the case so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47574	Thank you very much. This is what we've exhausted the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47575	We move to the Report on the deadline for completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism Satellite balance of Croatian tourism and Tourism Development Strategy. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the conclusion: A report on the deadline for completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the Satellite balance of Croatian tourism and the Tourism Development Strategy is accepted. Please engage and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 77 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 39 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47576	And future colleagues return to the assembly, says that there is a blizzard outside, then it is quite good for the debate, so let's move on with point 4 and it reads: - The report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the legal authority of the Government has submitted this report on the basis of Article 3. The Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Health and Social Care. Reports from the meetings of all these committees you received on the benches. The representatives of the proposing think that there is no need to give an introductory explanation. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to explain the same? Here are my fellow MPs. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, colleague Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47577	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. The Committee on Health and Social Care at the 37th meeting of the Committee held on 4 February 2010 discussed the report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the legal powers conferred on the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 14 January 2010. On the basis of its competence as set out in Article 76a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed the Regulation on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act as a home working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. During the debate, the Committee supported the Regulation on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. It is expressed satisfaction to improve the provisions on the award of concessions for the renewal of public health services, avoiding the possibility of the concentration being both a concession provider and a health institution founder at the same time. The time limit for the transfer of the contract on the work of health workers on the leaser team of the health care unit as an employer in the event that the tenant does not continue to carry out activities on the basis of the concession has been extended from one to two years which the members of the board hold justified. In fact, although the primary health activity on the basis of the concession is certainly a quality shift in improving the organisation and providing primary health care procedures for obtaining the concession has just begun and the existing period of one year is certainly too short. This is due to the fact that during 2009 elections were held for members of municipal and city councils and county assemblies and the City of Zagreb City Assembly and that the process of establishing new representative bodies of units of district and regional self-government has led to delays in the concession process. It should be expected, it is noted, that a number of primary health care teams will be returned to the health care centres, as well as to their work contracts as provided for in Article 7 of the Regulation, due to the inability to comply with the Health Protection Act, the lack of patients and the inability to continue working on the basis of the concession. After an extensive debate, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for adoption the following conclusion: "The Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is adopted on the basis of legal authority." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47578	Thank you very much. Other committees? There isn't. We're going to a club debate. The Croatian Democratic Community Club has joined. On behalf of the club will be spoken by distinguished counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47579	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Article 3 is replaced by the following: The Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia so that regulations can regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section, which shows that they had three regulations, the Regulation on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act, the Regulation on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act and the Regulation on Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. The Regulation amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act was necessary in order to make the law more effective in view of the new financial crisis. The change in that section is that it is prohibited to grant non-resident financial loans with a maturity of less than three months instead of the previous one was scheduled for a year. It is also prescribed to amend the regulation that the Croatian National Bank makes a decision that prescribes the way residents raise and make constant cash and checks. Infringement provisions have also been amended, and this Regulation also postpones the previously envisaged liberalisation of capital restrictions by 1 January 2011. As regards the Regulation amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, this Regulation improves the provision of concessions for the provision of public health care services, avoiding the possibility of being a concession provider and a founder of a health care institution in the same person. The deadline for the transposition of the Labour Treaty has also been extended from one to two years and it has been arranged that the Minister responsible for Health gives consent to the documentation for the competition in the concession procedure. As regards the Regulation supplementing the law and salaries of judges and other judicial officials, the law also provides for the right to add to the salary of judicial officials, this right shall be postponed until the end of 2010, given that the funds in the state budget are not secured. The HDZ Club supports this report and accepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47580	Thank you very much, colleague. There are no more applications on behalf of the clubs. We're moving on to individual debates. Individually for the debate, the esteemed colleague, Josip Leko, applied. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And distinguished colleague Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47581	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, I'm going to start by saying, of course, that I support this report and I think that a few sentences should be spoken about these regulations right from the point of view of constitutional law because in the past time when these reports arrived and reports come, of course, each year, we have held the most debates and we have faced our views on constitutional provisions just as to whether they are in specific situations of violation of constitutional provisions, or whether the Government has the authority of the Constitution to regulate these relations that are concerned in this way. So, I will stress that in the constitutional practice of all modern states, therefore, the legislative body of the Parliament can authorise the executive body so that the Government can adopt a general regulation or to regulate its general rules a certain circle of relations of which the adoption or regulation of the Constitution is within Parliament's jurisdiction. The legal acts adopted by governments in these cases shall be referred to in the Constitutional and Legal Theory of the Regulation on the basis of legal authority and at least two issues shall always be raised in discussions on this subject. The first is whether there is a breach of constitutional provisions in the specific situation, i.e. the counter-constitution in terms of the adoption of certain specific provisions. Second, whether regulations under the legal authority may amend the specific provisions of the applicable law. Our Constitution is therefore clear as regards the first and second situations, since Article 87 provides that the Croatian Parliament may, but of course for a period of one year at most, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from its part-round, except for questions, again, that I do not read now, that I do not read the provisions of the Constitution which are strictly by the Constitution, or Article 87. Constitution prescribed. Of course, under the legal authority, the regulations cannot act backwards and the constitutional provision shall cease to apply within a period of one year from the date of the power granted, of course unless the Parliament decides otherwise. On the other hand, the fact that regulations or regulations only in exceptional situations and constitutional deadlines can regulate certain areas of life, therefore logically arises in such a situation that the regulation regulates something other than that governed by the applicable law, therefore the applicable regulation. So, when we have a situation that the Government regulates relations already regulated by the law, there is also a need to derivate certain legal provisions in this regard, but in the opposite, in formal or actual terms, the regulation would have no purpose at all. This also raises the question of abuse or the possibility of abuse of constitutional powers, or whether they were in a particular situation, whether they occurred. Of course it is not because, at a time when the Parliament is not in session and only in three situations, in this case, the Government intervened with the regulation for justified and reasoned reasons, and the objections which could go in the sense of violating these constitutional principles or those provisions on the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament in relation to the Government or the constitutional legal position of the Croatian Parliament in relation to the Government do not, of course, stand. And accordingly, to conclude my debate, this report, as well as the previous report that we had on the agenda, a report on regulations with the legal force therefore relating to such regulations, and adopted on the basis of legal powers, should be fully accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47582	Thank you very much, colleague. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. Proposers don't think there's anything special that needs to be further explained, that everything is said. That's what I'm closing this point with. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And we will continue to work tomorrow as usual at 9.30 p.m. with item 6 of the agenda, Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Hello, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-10-0.u47583	We move to the Report on the Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal powers. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the conclusion: a report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of the legal authority. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 83 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 35 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors! I welcome all of you together. I welcome the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister present, all of us here in this assembly. We move to - Proposal for a decision to appoint the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 124. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 93 Law on State's Attorney's Office. In accordance with Article 73 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Justice Committee gave a preliminary opinion on the appointment and resolution of the main state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yes, Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
